mr tariqs cross-appeal the issue in the cross-appeal was whether the provisions in the regulations providing for a closed material procedure were contrary to eu law or the european convention on human rights. it is a basic principle of eu law that national law should provide effective legal protection of eu law rights. those rights include the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of race or religion. as to whether the closed material procedure provided effective legal protection, the case-law of the european court of justice is clear that eu law will look for guidance on the subject in the case-law of the european court of human rights. that court has established in a line of cases culminating in kennedy v uk that the demands of national security may necessitate a system for determining complaints under which a claimant is, for reasons of national security, unable to know the secret material by reference to which his complaint is determined. the tests are whether the system is necessary and whether it contains sufficient safeguards. on the facts, both were satisfied. the system was necessary because security vetting is a highly sensitive area in which integrity of sources of information and the means of obtaining it must be protected. the alternatives of the home office routinely having to pay unmeritorious claims or the courts refusing to hear claims at all are not possibilities that the law should readily contemplate. the rule of law must, so far as possible, stand for the objective resolution of civil disputes on their merits by a court which has before it material enabling it to do so. the system contained sufficient safeguards in the form of special advocates, who can usefully protect the claimants interests. for these reasons the use of the closed material procedure in this case was lawful and the cross-appeal must be dismissed. the home offices appeal the question in the appeal was whether there is an absolute requirement that a claimant should be able to see the allegations against him in sufficient detail to give instructions to his legal team to enable the allegations to be challenged effectively. mr tariq argued that the european convention on human rights contained such a principle. the supreme court, however, held that the line of cases culminating in kennedy v uk recognised that there was no absolute requirement. article 6 of the european convention on human rights provides the right to a fair trial. the european court of human rights has held that where the liberty of the subject is involved, article 6 requires the provision of a gist as described by the court of appeal. in cases such as the present not involving the liberty of the subject, however, the question is whether the use of the closed material procedure will impair the very essence of the right to a fair trial. that cannot be said to be so in this case, as mr tariqs claim will be determined by an independent and impartial tribunal and the disadvantages that the procedure gives rise to will as far as possible be minimised. the appeal was therefore allowed. lord kerr dissented. he held, first, that the withholding of information from a claimant which is then deployed to defeat his claim is a breach of his fundamental common law right to a fair trial. the removal of that right can only be achieved by legislation framed in unambiguous language. secondly, such withholding also constitutes a breach of a claimants article 6 right to a fair trial. kennedy v uk was an anomaly. lord kerr would therefore have dismissed the appeal.