the court disagrees with the appeal courts view in relation to outstanding charges. it is, of course, trite that an individual charged with crime is presumed to be innocent until proven guilty. but that is not to say that he has to be treated in all respects as if he were an innocent person against whom no charge has been brought (para 9). the privy councils decision in holland v hm advocate 2005 1 sc (pc) 3, that the crown should disclose outstanding charges of crown witnesses of which they are aware, simply reflects the common sense position that just as in everyday life judges or jurors who have to assess the credibility of a witness may properly take into account not only the fact that the witness has been convicted of various offences, but also the fact that he has been charged with others. this approach merely reflects what appears to have been recognised as the proper practice in scottish courts for more than 170 years (para 10). in the present case, the crown does not deny that the outstanding charges against mr stronach might have weakened the crown case by casting doubt on his character or credibility. indeed the crown accepts that, in accordance with holland and hm advocate v murtagh 2009 slt 1060, the failure to disclose the outstanding charges to the defence was incompatible with the appellants article 6(1) rights (para 14). the only live issue in the appeal, therefore, is the actual significance, in the whole circumstances of the case, of the crowns failure to disclose the outstanding charges. having considered the circumstances of the case against the appellant, the court is not persuaded that, if defence counsel had been able to deploy mr stronachs outstanding charges as well as his previous convictions, this would have made any material difference (para 22). the court is satisfied that there is no real possibility that the jury would have come to a different verdict on the charges against the appellant if they had been made aware, not only of mr stonachs previous convictions, but of the outstanding charges against him as well. there has therefore been no miscarriage of justice (para 23).