in order to succeed in his claim in the tort of negligence, mr watkins had to establish a negligent breach of duty, causation and loss. the trial judge found that there had been a negligent breach of duty and that causation was established. neither conclusion has been appealed [22]. to succeed, therefore, mr watkinss estate must prove loss, specifically that in losing the opportunity to pursue the claim mr watkins lost something of value, i.e. that his services claim had a real and substantial rather than merely a negligible prospect of success [23]. mr watkinss original claim was within the scheme, and it is therefore necessary to consider whether the claim was of more than negligible value within the context of that scheme [25]. the expert report was concerned with causation, not loss, and was prepared to assist in the assessment of whether mr watkinss failure to pursue a services claim arose from negligent advice or from an inability to assert truthfully that he had lost the ability to perform activities that would qualify him for a services award [27]. as a result, the expert was instructed not to apply the presumption used under the scheme [28]. had mr watkins pursued a services claim it would have proceeded on the basis of the schemes procedures. he would have had to undergo only a limited second medical examination and there would have been no equivalent of the experts report. his entitlement to a services award would have been decided by the application of the schemes presumption. there was no justification for considering a further medical examination and report which would not have been commissioned under the scheme and therefore the judge erred in taking this into account [29]. given other findings in the expert report, the court is unable to accept that the services claim had no chance of success so that the lost claim was of no value [30]. the first-instance judge should have proceeded to assess the value of the lost claim on a loss of opportunity basis. the court therefore dismisses the appeal and remits the matter for that assessment [32].