the court notes that acts by the secretary of state for northern ireland or by departments in westminster do not come within the purview of section 24 of the 1998 act. for a devolution issue to arise, it must be shown that an act or function has been carried out by a northern ireland minister or department, and that the act in question is invalid by reason of s. 24 [6]. the prohibitions in s. 24 are disjunctive: it is forbidden to make, confirm or approve any subordinate legislation, or to do any act, so far as the legislation or act is incompatible with the echr. acts ancillary to the enactment of subordinate legislation are thus in principle capable of being caught by s. 24. it is therefore possible, on a theoretical or technical level, to consider that the departments provision of the postcode lists in question amounts to such an ancillary act [11]. there are, however, two reasons that the provision of such lists cannot be said to raise a devolution issue. first, as the court held in agnis reference [2019] uksc 1, where the attorney general sought to refer to this court a devolution issue that arose in parallel pending proceedings, it was considered not to be appropriate to accept the reference. the same holds true here: a challenge to the universal credit provisions will come before this court shortly on appeal from a decision of the english court of appeal. it will be open to the attorney general to apply to intervene in that appeal [12]. second, the fundamental underpinning of the attorney generals case is that the introduction of universal credit in northern ireland by act of the secretary of state is incompatible with the echr. it is not that the departments act in identifying the areas where universal credit is to be introduced that is incompatible. the publication of the lists itself is not an act sufficient to give rise to an incompatibility with the echr. for a devolution issue under schedule 10 to arise, it must be shown that the departmental act under challenge is capable of being incompatible with the echr. because the publication of lists is not in itself capable of giving rise to an incompatibility, it is not appropriate to accept a reference under paragraph 34 [13 14].