against the background of the other relevant provisions of icta [18], the court concludes that section 103 does not contain an implicit restriction so that the charge to tax on post-cessation receipts falls only on the former trader whose trade was the source of the income [19]. there are three reasons in support of this conclusion: first, there is nothing in the wording of section 103(1) or (2) which necessitates such implication. the charge to tax is clear: where a trade has been permanently discontinued, corporation tax shall be charged on sums arising from the carrying on of the tradeduring any period before the discontinuance. section 103(1) required only that the sums are received after the discontinuance; it specified the source of the sums falling within the charge but imposed no further restriction [20]. secondly, section 103 was designed to catch the fruit of the trade. its aim was to make sure that sums which a person received, which arose from a discontinued trade and which were not otherwise taxed, were brought into a charge to tax. no sound policy reason has been suggested for confining the charge to the former trader and his personal representatives [21]. thirdly, the neighbouring provisions of section 103 drew a distinction between the person chargeable to tax and the person who had previously carried on the trade. this suggests that the former was not confined to the latter [22-23]. the court rejects sdgs submission that the sum it received equivalent to the vat repayment did not have a former trade as its source, but was the result of an intra-group arrangement which was either a transfer for no consideration of that sum, or a transfer for no consideration of the rights to the vat repayment. under section 103 of icta, the focus was on the original source of the receipt; the arrangements within the group as to the specific company that was to receive the vat repayment did not alter that original source [24]. section 106 of icta also supports a wider interpretation of the scope of the section 103 charge to corporation tax: section 106(1) quantifies the section 103 charge at the amount of the consideration or the market value of the rights to such sums when the former trader transfers its rights to those future receipts for value and the subsection imposes the charge on the former trader [25]; and section 106(2) disapplies section 103 and substitutes another case of schedule d only if the transferee company is carrying on the continuing business when it receives the fruits of the trade which is deemed to have been discontinued [26]. applying this analysis of sections 103 and 106 of icta to the facts of this case, the court concludes that the groups affairs were organised such that the vat repayment was received by sdg as beneficial owner, receiving sums arising from the carrying on of the trade of the companies making relevant supplies during periods before the discontinuance and the sums were not otherwise chargeable to tax. the vat repayment accordingly is subject to a charge to corporation tax in the hands of sdg [28-31].