the cjeu decided to reformulate the first two questions referred. this introduced ambiguity enabling each party to claim success on the issue of whether the secretary of state had breached article 22 by not applying to extend the deadline. however, it is unnecessary to make a final ruling on the meaning of the cjeus judgment on these questions. [5] the cjeus answer to the third question was that the fact that an air quality plan complying with article 23(1) has been drawn up does not in itself mean the member state has met is obligations under article 13. its answer to the fourth question was that where a member state has failed to comply with article 13 and not applied to postpone the deadline under article 22, it is for the national court to take any necessary measure so that the authority establishes the plan required by the directive in accordance with the conditions laid down by the latter. [6] the time taken by these proceedings has meant that the article 22 issue has no practical significance, except in relation to the requirements of annex xv section b, which apply to a plan produced under article 22 but not, in terms, to a plan under article 23. however, as the commission explained in its observations to the cjeu, the requirements of article 23(1) are no less onerous than those under article 22. the court is able where necessary to impose requirements which are appropriate to secure effective compliance at the earliest possible opportunity. the checklist of measures under paragraph 3 of section b have to be considered in order to demonstrate compliance with either article 22 or 23. [23-24] it is unnecessary to reach a concluded view on whether the article 22 procedure was obligatory. lord carnwath saw force in the commissions reasoning, which treats article 22 as an optional derogation, but makes clear that failure to apply for a postponement, far from strengthening the position of the state, rather reinforces its essential obligation to act urgently under article 23(1) in order to remedy the danger to public health as soon as possible. [25-26] the secretary of states argument that there was no basis for an order quashing the 2011 plans, nor a mandatory order to replace them, was rejected. the critical breach is of article 13, not of articles 22 or 23. the cjeu judgment leaves no doubt as the seriousness of the breach, which has been continuing for more than five years, nor as to the responsibility on the national court to secure compliance. further, during those five years the prospects of early compliance have become worse (2014 projections predicting non-compliance in some zones after 2030). the secretary of state accepted that a new plan has to be prepared. the new government should be left in no doubt as to the need for immediate action, which is achieved by an order that new plans must be delivered to the commission not later than 31 december 2015. [19, 28-29, 33]