the complaints commissioners power to investigate the complaint were derived from article 8 of the commissioner for complaints (northern ireland) order 1996, which deals with complaints against individuals, like the gp in this case, providing professional services under contracts or other consensual arrangements with the nhs [11]. the short answer to this appeal is that the complaints commissioner may not, under article 9 of the 1996 order, carry out any investigations in respect of which the complainant has a remedy by way of proceedings in a court of law, unless it is not reasonable to expect the complainant to resort to law. the widow had such a remedy but the commissioner proceeded with the investigation because she said that she only wished to find out what had gone wrong (and not to obtain money). it was not open to the commissioner, having proceeded on that basis, to recommend a payment to her [17]. more generally, the complaints commissioner does not have the power to recommend monetary redress against individuals in investigations under article 8. this is because his recommendations are not binding as a matter of private law, and a private individual such as a gp has no relevant duties in public law. furthermore, a private individual has no means of effectively challenging the commissioners findings on the merits of the case before a court [20, 24]. nor does the complaints commissioner have a power to make a special report in default of payment. whilst the parliamentary commissioner and assembly ombudsman for northern ireland have such a power as against departments or public bodies that have been ordered to provide financial redress, the complaints commissioner does not. this is because the commissioners relationship with the legislature is different to that of other statutory ombudsmen in the united kingdom. the commissioner is not an officer of the legislature, unlike the assembly ombudsman for northern ireland, but receives complaints from and reports to the complainant and individuals or bodies whose conduct is at issue. he has no powers of compulsion, and limited powers to use information discovered during investigations for the purposes of enforcement [20-21, 26-28]. article 19 of the 1996 order is concerned with the presentation of annual reports before the assembly, and not reports on individual cases such as this [29]. lord sumption further comments on the substance of the commissioners recommendation that the gp pay 10,000 to the widow. a monetary recommendation must be rational and capable of explanation. the figure in the commissioners report appears to have been plucked out of the air: it does not offer a coherent explanation or calculation, or identify the precise failings in respect of which it was made [30].