the questions before the court were (i) whether the regime enacted by parliament in relation to the admission of the evidence of an absent witness at a criminal trial will result in an unfair trial and, if not (ii) whether the case law of the european court on human rights nonetheless requires the court to apply that regime in a manner contrary to the intention of parliament. the requirement to take into account any judgment of the european court of human rights found in s 2 human rights act 1998 would normally result in the supreme court applying principles that were clearly established by the strasbourg court. there would however be rare occasions where the court had concerns as to whether a decision of the strasbourg court sufficiently appreciated or accommodated particular aspects of the uk trial process. in such circumstances it was open to the supreme court to decline to follow the strasbourg decision, giving reasons for adopting this course. this was likely to give the strasbourg court the opportunity to reconsider the particular aspect of the decision that was in issue, so that there took place what might prove to be a valuable dialogue between the courts [para 11]. the conclusions of the court of appeal were correct and the judgement of the supreme court should be read as complementary to that of the court of appeal and not as a substitute for it [para 13]. the supreme court held that the appellants trials were fair notwithstanding the decision in al- khawaja for the following reasons: (i) the common law hearsay rule addressed the aspect of a fair trial covered by article 6(3)(d). parliament had enacted exceptions to the hearsay rule in a regime which contained safeguards that rendered the sole or decisive rule unnecessary. (ii) the strasbourg court had recognised that exceptions to article 6(3)(d) were required in the interests of justice but the jurisprudence on the exceptions lacked clarity and had introduced a sole or decisive rule without discussion of the principle underlying it or full consideration of whether it was justified to impose it equally on common law and continental jurisdictions (iii) the sole or decisive rule would create severe practical difficulties if applied to english criminal procedure. in almost all cases english law would reach the same result without it. al-khawaja did not establish that it was necessary to apply the rule in this jurisdiction. judgments