the majority concludes that, whilst one of the main purposes of the 1996 act is to ensure that members of a homeless family are not split up by local housing authorities, section 176 does not prevent a local housing authority offering a homeless family two separate units of accommodation if they are so located that they enable the family to live together in practical terms. that is a factual judgment to be made by the local housing authority [17]. the 1996 act requires accommodation provided by a local housing authority to be suitable. however, ms sharif no longer denies that the two flats offered to her by the council meet that requirement [18, 29]. neither the word accommodation nor the words together with in section 176 imply that a homeless family must be accommodated in the same unit of accommodation [5, 17]. had the councils reviewing officer been asked to answer the question of whether section 176 prohibits the council from housing a homeless family in two separate units of accommodation, it is reasonably clear that he would have answered in the negative. the main obstacle to family living which had been raised before the reviewing officer had been the problem of caring for ms sharifs father in a separate unit of accommodation. that problem was discounted by the reviewing officer, on the basis that the problem of communication between the two flats would be no greater than in a house with two floors [18]. the arguments made on behalf of ms sharif would produce surprising results. for example, the council would not be able to improve the position of a homeless family residing in an overcrowded house or flat by offering them an additional neighbouring unit of accommodation, even on a temporary basis [19]. ms sharif also accepted that two separate rooms in a hostel or hotel would satisfy the requirements of section 176 of the 1996 act. however, the majority found it hard to see why that should be treated differently from the provision of two adjacent flats [20, 30]. lady hale emphasises that there is no requirement under the 1996 act for local housing authorities to provide a communal living space to those who are, or claim to be, homeless [30]. the majority emphasises that their interpretation of section 176 of the 1996 act does not give local housing authorities a free hand. it is a fundamental objective of the 1996 act to ensure that families can live together in a true sense; accommodation provided by a local housing authority will not satisfy section 176 unless it enables that objective to be achieved [23]. lord hope says that the test is not to be exploited by local housing authorities; it must be applied reasonably and proportionately [28]. lord kerr, dissenting, says that section 176 requires a local housing authority to accommodate a homeless family in the same unit of accommodation. the accommodation must be of a character that will allow all members of the family to live within it [34]. lord kerr concludes that the words together with in section 176 imply joint occupation of the same unit of accommodation [32, 33]. he takes the view that sufficient proximity is very different from living together [35].