there are two aspects to the argument of whether the sites of the atms are capable of identification as separate hereditaments [28]. first, with regard to the 2000 regulations, the statutory assumption that certain plant (e.g. atms) has no effect on rateable value applies only to the valuation of the hereditament. it does not follow that this applies to the logically prior question of whether there is a hereditament that needs to be valued [33]. second, previous case law establishes that a hereditament is a self-contained piece of property (i.e. property all parts of which are physically accessible from all other parts, without having to go onto other property) [34]. the upper tribunal was entitled to find that there should be no difficulty in defining the boundaries of fixed atms so as to satisfy the geographical test for self-containment [35], with the exception is the moveable atm, which, as they found, had the qualities of impermanence and mobility [39]. the second question is whether the retailers or the banks were in rateable occupation of the atms [40]. a lodging house, which is treated as a single hereditament in the occupation of the landlord, is a useful example. while the landlords control of the premises does not interfere with, and indeed supports, the enjoyment by the lodgers of their own rooms for their own purposes, there is still only one hereditament in the occupation of the landlord [46]. on the facts the upper tribunal held that the retailers' retained occupation of the atm sites but had conferred on the banks rights which substantially restricted the retailers use of those sites. this was because the presence of the atms furthered the retailers general business purposes and the operation of the atms provides the retailers with an income [48]. both the parties derived a direct benefit from the use of the sites for the same purpose and shared the economic fruits of the activity for which the space was used. this is sufficient to support the conclusion that the internal atms remained in the occupation of the retailers [49]. external atms are to be treated the same as internal ones. that an external atms is available to a wider marker at all times, and is physically separated from the other facilities in the stores, does not detract from the upper tribunals finding that the retailers remained in occupation of the atms, nor that they were any less a part of the retailers businesses. the difference is no greater than the difference between an internal or external atm in a bank building. thus, the external atms remained in the rateable occupation of the retailers [52].