the requirement that claimants and their chosen comparators are in the same employment before a claim can be brought under the act does not simply mean that they must be employed by the same employer. if they do not work at the same establishment as their comparators, claimants must show that they are both employed at establishments in great britain at which common terms and conditions of employment are observed either generally or for employees of the relevant classes (s 1 (6) of the act). the common terms and conditions are between the comparators terms at different establishments and those on which they are or would be employed at the claimants establishment [12]. it is no answer to say that no such comparators ever would be employed at the same establishment as the claimant, otherwise it would be far too easy for an employer to arrange things so that only men worked in one place and only women in another [13]. the correct hypothesis to consider is the transfer of the comparators to do their present job in a different location [30]. the evidence from the respondents group manager of human resources confirmed that, although he could not envisage it happening, in the event that the comparators were based in schools then they would retain their green book conditions [31]. the employment tribunal adopted the correct test and was entitled to find it satisfied on this evidence. it was not necessary to show that it was feasible to co-locate the relevant workers. this was an unwarranted gloss on s 1(6) [33] and would defeat the object of the legislation. the fact that of necessity work has to be carried on in different places is no barrier to equalising the terms on which it is done [34]. it is not the function of the same employment test to establish comparability between the jobs done, but simply to weed out those cases in which geography plays a significant part in determining the relevant terms and conditions [35]. this construction of s 1(6) is more consistent with the requirements of european union law, to which the act gives effect [36]. case law of the european court of justice has established that for the principle of equal pay to have direct effect, the difference in treatment must be attributable to a single source which is capable of putting it right [40]. that is clearly the case here. if s 1(6) were to operate as a barrier to a comparison which was required by eu law to give effect to the fundamental principle of equal treatment it would be the courts duty to disapply it. however, s 1(6) sets a low threshold which does not operate as a barrier to the comparison proposed in this case [42].