section 64(3)(a) of the 2004 act indicates that the purpose of the imposition of conditions is to make a house reasonably suitable for occupation by not more than the maximum number of households or persons specified in the application or decided by the housing authority. section 67(1)(a) provides that a licence may include such conditions as the local housing authority considers appropriate for regulating all or any of the management, use and occupation of the house concerned, and section 67(2) sets out a non-exhaustive list of permitted conditions including conditions imposing restrictions or prohibitions on the use or occupation of particular parts of the house by persons occupying it [18]. these words in their natural meaning are sufficiently wide to include the conditions imposed by the tribunals and the court of appeal [18]. such a reading is also consistent with the object and purpose of the 2004 act. elsewhere in part 2 of the 2004 act, the manner of occupation and characteristics of occupants are considered relevant in contexts connected with hmos and housing standards generally [20]. the guidance in respect of the 2004 act also supports the view that the manner of occupation of a room and the type of occupant may have a bearing on the suitability of a particular room for a particular use [23]. the court does not consider that the conditions in issue introduce an exception for a category of persons or a defined set of circumstances [24]. furthermore, they do not permit occupation at a lower standard [25]. it is therefore appropriate to have regard to the proposed mode of occupation in considering the suitability of accommodation in an hmo [26]. in particular, account should be taken of the proposed mode of occupation where it is likely to influence the quality of the accommodation made available to the occupant. however, this does not permit the application of lower standards than would otherwise be applicable [26]. thus, the power to impose conditions under sections 64 and 67 of the 2004 act can be used to limit the class of persons for whom the hmo is suitable [27]. the court agrees with the court of appeal that the conditions imposed by the tribunals were deficient in that they failed to require any part of the hmo to be available for communal living and did not require the bedrooms other than the attic bedrooms to be let to students. that deficiency was, however, cured by the further conditions introduced by the court of appeal [33]. the condition limiting the occupation to persons engaged in full-time education is rational [35] and enforceable [37]. the court considers, however, that the requirement limiting occupation to ten months in each year is irrational [36]. therefore, subject to the deletion of the requirement of occupation for a maximum of ten months in each year, the conditions imposed by the tribunals and the court of appeal in each case, considered cumulatively, were entirely lawful. accordingly, the supreme court varies the conditions to delete the requirement of occupation for a maximum of ten months in each year but otherwise dismisses the appeal [38].