declaratory relief lord toulson rejects mr hunts argument that the court of appeal should have made a declaration of its own initiative. the judgment of the court of appeal itself contained a ruling that the council acted unlawfully and the authority of its judgment would be no greater or less by making or not making a declaration in the form of the order to the same effect. a court is not required to make declaratory orders where, although a finding of illegality has been made, it is not asked to make a declaratory order by a partys experienced legal representatives [12]. costs in relation to costs, although courts have wide discretion in this matter, the court of appeal fell into error by treating the council as the successful party. as the court of appeal rejected the councils case on the two issues, it was only successful in the limited sense that the findings of failure came too late to do anything about what had happened in the past, although this occurred through no fault on mr hunts part. it was unsuccessful on the substantive issues regarding its statutory responsibilities [15]. indeed, the court of appeal judgment contained a lesson of general application for local authorities regarding the discharge by committee members of the councils equality duty. in such circumstances, where a local authority is shown to have acted unlawfully, some good reason would have to be shown why a claimant should not recover his reasonable costs [16]. despite this, the reasons for limiting mr hunts order for costs in his favour in this case are that: he raised issues much wider than the issues on which he was given permission to appeal and which required detailed rebuttal; and, he persisted in seeking an unrealistic remedy a quashing order [17]. consequently, the court of appeals order should be set aside and substituted with an order that mr hunt recover two thirds of his costs both in the high court and in the court of appeal [18]. as to costs in this court, although mr hunt is entitled to his reasonable costs, having succeeded in reversing the costs orders made by the courts below, a significant proportion of his argument was directed to the question of a declaration. this had no merit. therefore, mr hunt should recover two thirds of his costs subject to either party making written submissions as to why a different order should be made [19].