issue 1: convention jurisdiction: in its judgment of july 2011 in the al-skeini case, the european court of human rights decided that six iraqi civilians who had died as a result of the actions of british armed forces in iraq were within the uks jurisdiction for the purposes of the convention. the judgment does not answer issue 1 directly, but elements can be extracted from it which point clearly to the conclusion that the court reaches in this case. it formulates a relatively general principle that extra-territorial jurisdiction can exist whenever a state through its agents exercises authority and control over an individual. it also indicated that convention rights can be divided and tailored to the particular circumstances of the extra-territorial act in question, as opposed to being an indivisible package. a states extra-territorial jurisdiction over local inhabitants exists because of the authority and control that is exercised over them as a result of the authority and control that the state has over its own armed forces. they are all brought within the states jurisdiction by the application of the same general principle [42 52]. issue 2: snatch land rover claims under article 2 of the convention: in this area, the court must fully recognise the wide margin of appreciation to be given to the state and avoid imposing obligations which are unrealistic or disproportionate. but it must give effect to those obligations where it would be reasonable to expect the individual to be protected by article 2. policy decisions made at a high level of command and things done on the battlefield will fall outside the scope of article 2. but whether claims which are between these two categories are within the scope of article 2 will require the exercise of judgment in the light of the facts of each case [76]. the present claims provide only brief outlines of the claimants cases and they pre-date developments in relevant case law on article 2. the circumstances in which the various decisions were made need to be inquired into before it can be determined with complete confidence whether or not there was a breach of article 2. however, given the courts guidance on the margin of appreciation to be given to the state, it is far from clear that the claimants will be able to demonstrate such a breach [78 81]. issue 3: challenger claims and ellis negligence claim: the doctrine of combat immunity should be construed narrowly and should not be extended beyond its established scope to the planning of and preparation for active operations against the enemy. the challenger claims are not within the scope of the doctrine because they relate to decisions which are sufficiently far removed from the pressures and risks of active operations against the enemy. the ellis negligence claim is less obviously directed to things done away from the theatre of battle so it is arguably within the doctrine. it would be premature for these claims to be struck out and the issue should be open to further argument in the light of the evidence [89 96]. the circumstances in which active operations are undertaken by the uks armed services today vary greatly and cannot all be grouped under a single umbrella as if they were all open to the same risk of judicialising warfare. however, considerations similar to those affecting the snatch land rover claims under article 2 arise in relation to whether it would be fair, just and reasonable to impose a duty of care on the mod in this area. the question whether the negligence claims in this case entail subjecting the mod to duties that are unrealistic or excessively burdensome cannot properly be determined without hearing evidence [98 100]. minority judgments: lord mance (with whom lord wilson agrees) would have struck out all three sets of claims in their entirety, essentially because they are not suitable for resolution by a court [125 137, 146, 150 152]. for the same reasons, lord carnwath would have struck out the challenger claims. however, he considered that the snatch land rover claims were not necessarily excluded, because major combat operations had ceased by the time of the relevant incidents [156, 186 188].