under the wtd, every worker must be entitled to a rest break, a daily rest, and a weekly rest period. each period must be measured separately from each other. they cannot intrude upon each other or overlap [16]. where necessary because of special working patterns, workers must be afforded equivalent periods of compensatory rest. in the appellants case, it was agreed that the first two days of each period of their field break is accounted for as compensatory rest, to make up for the fact that they work a 12 hour shift every day during their two weeks offshore [17]. with regard to the annual leave entitlement, article 7 of the wtd does not require that those four weeks must be taken consecutively or that those weeks cannot be interrupted [18]. but as a period of leave is not a period which is defined in article 2 as working time, it must be taken to be what that article defines as a rest period. it is an annual period of rest [19]. the wtd does not imply any qualitative requirement to test whether a given period can be accounted as rest. the exercise that must be carried out is simply one of counting up the relevant hours, days or seven-day periods and ensuring that the worker is not required to work during those periods. there is no indication anywhere that the wtd was concerned about the quality of the minimum periods of rest, other than to make it clear in the definition of rest period that it means a period which is not working time[21]. the contract in question is a contract for the whole of the year, in which the employees were required to work for 26 weeks [34]. the purpose of the entitlement to annual leave is to enable the worker to rest and enjoy a period of relaxation and leisure. the ecj has not said that a pre-ordained rest period, when the worker is free from all obligations to the employer, can never constitute annual leave. on the contrary, the term rest period simply means any period which is not working time, and any period means every such period irrespective of where the worker is at that time and what he is doing, so long as it is a period when he is not working. it is plain that any period when the appellants are on field break onshore will fall into that category [36]. the respondents are therefore entitled to insist that the appellants must take their paid annual leave during periods other than their 26 working weeks when they are onshore on field break. this is permitted by regulation 13 of the wtr, read in conformity with article 7 of the wtd [38]. a reference to the cjeu is not necessary in this case. the meaning to be given to article 7, for the purposes of this judgment, is not open to any doubt [43].