the court notes that the case raises a fundamental issue about fairness. neither in july nor in august 2006 did k have the opportunity to refute the allegations in the grounds of referral. this is contrary to one of the fundamental rules of natural justice, the right to be heard. [14] the order of 27 october 2006 was competently pronounced. the order was one which the sheriff had power to grant under section 11(1) of the 1995 act. the defect in the order is one of specification, not of substance. while it would have been better if the sheriff had expressly referred to the relevant provisions of the 1995 act and to the relevant parental responsibilities and rights, and to the fact that participation in the childrens hearing set the limits for the exercise of those responsibilities and rights, the order was not incompetent because he did not do so. [24] [28] there was not a sound basis for the first divisions view that the sheriff failed to apply the overarching principles. such evidence as there is suggests that the very experienced sheriff had these principles in mind throughout the hearing. in any event, failure to apply the correct principles when making an order, while it may be a ground of appeal, would not normally render the order incompetent. [31] a parent (or other person) whose family life with the child is at risk in the proceedings must be afforded a proper opportunity to take part in the decision-making process. as currently constituted the childrens hearing system violated the article 8 rights of k (and indeed of l) and risks violating the rights of others in the same situation. the childrens hearing has to have the best and most accurate information that it can in order to make the best decisions about the child. the only justification advanced for excluding a father unless and until he secures a parental responsibilities and parental rights order from the sheriff court is to ensure that only persons who can make a meaningful contribution to the hearing are present. however, it is difficult to see how excluding a father such as k can possibly be proportionate to that aim. all fathers registered since 4 may 2006 are entitled to be present. further, when the alleged grounds for referring the child consist almost entirely of allegations against the father, it cannot possibly be legitimate to exclude him for the purpose of restricting the numbers. [39] - [48] the incompatibility with article 8 can be cured by inserting the words or who appears to have established family life with the child with which the decision of a childrens hearing may interfere into section 93(2)(b)(c) of the 1995 act. [69]