lord hodge examines the legislative history behind the uks system of national insurance, which shows that nics have indeed been levied on a basis that is different from the emoluments on which income tax has been raised [7-13]. he considers it significant that parliament, in the national insurance act 1946, chose to use the word earnings rather than emoluments. the latter word has been interpreted by the courts as referring to actual money payments and benefits in kind capable of being turned into money by the recipient [10]. lord hodge refers to primary legislation in 1911 and 1946 and also subordinate legislation for the purpose of demonstrating that the scheme of nics legislation by which earnings includes non-convertible benefits in kind (unless they are disregarded) has existed since 1946 [11-13]. as a result of the assumptions on which the subordinate legislation had been framed, hmrc had to argue that earnings are paid to an earner both when assets are transferred to a pension scheme to be held on a trust and also when payments are made from the trust fund. hmrc looked to the payment and not to what the earner received. the sum paid into the trust was part of mr mchughs remuneration, going into a trust fund for the sole benefit of mr mchugh and his wife. payments out to him from the trust would also, it was submitted, be earnings as they were also payments to him in respect of his employment. double counting would be avoided only as a result of specific disregards in the subordinate legislation [15]. lord hodge considers that remarkable position to be wrong for three reasons: - first, the ordinary man on the underground would consider it counter-intuitive that a person would earn remuneration both when his employer paid money into a trust to create a fund for his benefit and again when at a later date the trust fund was paid out to him. if one gives words their ordinary meaning, it is clear that a retired earner receives earnings in respect of his employment in the form of deferred remuneration when he receives his pension. the payment from the trust is deferred earnings; the payment into it is not earnings [16]. - secondly, hmrcs view could only be sustained by looking exclusively at what was paid and ignoring what the earner received. such an interpretation denudes the word earnings of any meaning, so the phrase earnings are paid would amount to payments are made [17]. - the third reason relates to the method of computation. by treating the payment into the trust as earnings, hmrc fail to take into account the existence of the contingency. the transfer gave mr mchugh not cash and treasury stock, but only the entitlement to a future pension or relevant benefits once the condition of reaching retirement age had been purified. the hypothetical value to his entitlement would not be the value at the date of the transfer of the assets paid into the fund, but the value of mr mchughs contingent right to the trust fund such as it would be at his retirement age. that would not be a simple exercise, and hmrcs approach fails to address what it was that mr mchugh received when the transfer was made [18]. lord hodge concludes that the transfer to the trust was not the payment of earnings for section 6(1) purposes [19]. the court allows fmls appeal and reinstates the judgment of the upper tribunal [22].