since the enactment of the 1623 statute of monopolies, the purpose of a grant of a patent has been to encourage innovation. the patent bargain is this: the inventor obtains a monopoly in return for disclosing the invention and dedicating it to the public for use after the monopoly has expired [53]. this overarching principle has survived the amendment of uk patent law after accession to the european patent convention [54]. in addressing the statutory question of obviousness in section 3 of the 1977 act it is common for english courts to adopt the so-called windsurfing/pozzoli structure [60]. an alternative approach which the epo often adopts is the so called problem-and-solution approach [61]. while both approaches focus on the inventive concept put forward in the claims, neither approach should be applied in a mechanistic way [62]. the question of obviousness must be considered on the facts of each case [63]. factors which are relevant considerations in the present case include the following [64]. first, it is relevant to consider whether at the priority date something was obvious to try, in other words whether it was obvious to undertake a specific piece of research which had a reasonable or fair prospect of success [65]. secondly, it follows that the routine nature of the research and any established practice of following such research through to a particular point may be a relevant consideration [66]. thirdly, the burden and cost of the research programme is relevant [67]. fourthly, the necessity for and the nature of the value judgments which the skilled team would have in the course of a testing programme are relevant considerations [68]. fifthly, the existence of alternative or multiple paths of research will often be an indicator that the invention contained in the claim or claims was not obvious [69]. sixthly, the motive of the skilled person is a relevant consideration. the notional skilled person is not assumed to undertake technical trials for the sake of doing so but rather because he or she has some end in mind [70]. seventhly, the fact that the results of research which the inventor actually carried out are unexpected or surprising is a relevant consideration as it may point to an inventive step [71]. eighthly, the courts have repeatedly emphasised that one must not use hindsight, which includes knowledge of the invention, in addressing the statutory question of obviousness [72]. ninthly, it is necessary to consider whether a feature of a claimed invention is an added benefit in a context in which the claimed innovation is obvious for another purpose [73]. a tenth consideration is the nature of the invention. in this case, the court is concerned with a dosage patent with a swiss- form claim and an epc 2000 claim. the possibility that a dosage patent with such claims may be valid has been recognized both by the epo and in the united kingdom courts [74]. in the present dispute, the court considers that the balance or symmetry in patent law and the pre- established or at least readily foreseeable target of the skilled teams tests hold the key to its resolution. the prior art discloses an invention - that is the use of tadalafil in the treatment of ed - in a manner which enables the skilled person to perform it. the task which the notional skilled team would undertake was that of implementing patent ep 0 839 040 (the daugan patent), which was the nearest prior art. the daugan patent had disclosed that doses of tadalafil for the treatment of ed will generally be in the range of 0.5mg to 800mg daily for the average adult patient. the target of the skilled team would be to ascertain the appropriate dose, which would usually be the lowest effective dose. the skilled team would know of that target from the outset of its research. the pre-clinical and clinical tests involved familiar and routine procedures and normally progressed to the discovery of the dose- response relationship in phase iib [105]. in this case the trial judges findings of what would have been the sequence of the tests, which did not depend upon hindsight, included the finding, which the evidence clearly justified, that the team, having found a therapeutic plateau, would be very likely to test lower doses and so come upon the dosage regime which is the subject matter of the patent [105]. the court considers that the court of appeal was entitled to treat the judges failure to appreciate the logical consequences of the finding - that it was very likely that the skilled team would continue the testing - as an error of principle which allowed an appellate court to carry out its own evaluation [82]. as such, the court is satisfied that the court of appeal was entitled to interfere with the trial judges assessment of obviousness and to hold that the 181 patent was invalid for lacking an inventive step [105].