section 6 of the human rights act 1998 requires the home secretary to act compatibly with the rights contained in the european convention on human rights, including the right under article 8 to respect for private and family life. removing an applicant from the uk may interfere with this right. therefore, if the home secretary refuses a persons application for leave to remain in the uk under the rules, he must nevertheless consider whether to grant leave on the basis of their right under article 8. article 8 gives him a limited discretion to determine whether the interference is justified [4]. section 117a(2) of the 2002 act prompts decision-makers exercising this discretion to have regard to the public interest considerations in section 117b, which include: the maintenance of effective immigration controls; that persons in the uk can speak english and are financially independent; and that little weight should be given to a private life established by a person at a time when they are in the uk unlawfully or when the persons immigration status is precarious [20-21]. a persons immigration status in the uk can therefore be precarious even when he or she is lawfully present here [24]. equally, the concept of little weight and the wording of section 117a(2) give decision-makers a limited degree of flexibility to uphold an article 8 claim on the basis of the applicants right to respect for private life, even if it was established when the applicants immigration status was precarious [49]. the court of appeal accepted that ms rhuppiahs own immigration status was precarious, but suggested that some immigrants could have an immigration status which was not precarious even though they did not have indefinite leave to remain in the uk. it added that the concept of precariousness might fall to be applied having regard to the persons overall circumstances. the supreme court holds that the application of the concept of precariousness does not depend on such a subtle evaluation of the overall circumstances as suggested by the court of appeal [25, 42]. the european court of human rights (ecthr) has approached the concept of precariousness in the context of the right to family life by asking whether the family life was created at a time when the parties knew that the immigration status of one of them made its persistence in the host state precarious from the outset [28]. therefore, it distinguished the situation of an applicant who (though not present unlawfully) was no more than tolerated by the host state while it determined her various applications for residence permits and consequential appeals, from that of settled migrants who had formally been granted a right of residence. the supreme court has previously addressed this ecthr decision, suggesting that family life will be precarious if created when an applicant was here unlawfully or had only a temporary right to remain in the uk [34-45]. section 117b imports the concept of precariousness from the ecthr case law. but the section only applies to an applicants private life [37]. in a case not cited to the court of appeal, the upper tribunal previously held that a persons immigration status was precarious for the purpose of section 117b(5) if his continued presence in the uk would be dependent upon a further grant of leave [38-39]. the supreme court now approves this decision. everyone who, not being a uk citizen, is present in the uk and who has leave to reside here other than to do so indefinitely, has a precarious immigration status for the purposes of section 117b(5) [44]. this bright-line interpretation is consistent with the ecthr and supreme courts language in the decisions referred to above [43]. the ftt nonetheless erred in concluding that ms rhuppiah was not financially independent within the meaning of section 117b(3). the supreme court holds that financially independent in section 117b(3) means not financially dependent upon the state. it therefore allows ms rhuppiahs appeal [52-58].