the issue at the heart of this appeal is whether, on the true construction of paragraph 3 of the bonds, the buyers are entitled to payment from the respondent in respect of refunds that they are entitled to from the builder under article xii.3 of the contracts [6]. it was common ground that everything depends upon the true construction of the bonds and that the terms and meaning of the contracts are only relevant to the extent that they inform the true construction of the bonds [7],[10]. under paragraph 3 of the bonds the respondent promised to pay the buyers all such sums due to you under the contract. the question is therefore what was meant by such sums. on this point, neither article x.5 nor article x.8 was intended to set out all the circumstances in which the refund guarantee should operate [37]. the buyers said that the expression covered the pre-delivery instalments referred to in the first line of paragraph 3 in other words, the phrase referred to all pre-delivery instalments paid by the buyers. the respondent, on the other hand, contended that the expression such sums was limited to the sums that were referred to in paragraph 2 of the bonds. since paragraph 2 did not include any reference to the buyers rights under article xii.3 of the contracts to repayment upon the builders insolvency, the respondent was under no obligation to make any payment to the buyers in the present case. on the face of it, the correct approach to the construction of the bonds is not in dispute. the cases show that the ultimate aim of interpreting a provision in a contract, especially a commercial contract, is to determine what the parties meant by the language used. this process involves ascertaining what a reasonable person would have understood the parties to have meant. a reasonable person, for these purposes, is one who has all the background knowledge that would reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at the time of the contract [14]. the issue between the parties is the role to be played by considerations of business common sense in determining what the parties meant [15]. where the parties have used unambiguous language, the court must apply it [23]. however if there are two possible constructions, it is generally appropriate to adopt the interpretation that is most consistent with business common sense and to reject the other [21], [29]. it is not necessary to conclude that a particular construction would produce an absurd or irrational result before proceeding to have regard to the commercial purpose of the agreement [43]. in the present case, since the language of paragraph 3 is capable of two meanings, it is appropriate for the court to have regard to considerations of commercial commonsense [40]. although the buyers are unable to provide any very good reason why paragraph 2 was included in the bonds [34], a construction of paragraph 3 which excluded the builders insolvency from the situations that trigger the respondents obligation to refund advance payments made by the buyers would make no commercial sense [41]. accordingly, of the two arguable constructions of paragraph 3 of the bonds, the buyers construction is to be preferred because it is consistent with the commercial purpose of the bonds in a way that the respondents construction is not [45].