whether listing is conclusive of the items being buildings for the purposes of the listed buildings act it is a principle that individuals affected by a legal measure should have a fair opportunity to challenge the measure and to vindicate their rights in court proceedings. in applying this principle, the context of the particular statutory scheme in question is relevant [20]. in the parallel context of breach of planning control, the statutory grounds of appeal are so wide that they include every aspect of the merits of the decision to serve an enforcement notice. it is hard to see why it should be any different in the context of a listed building enforcement notice. indeed, the question of whether something is a building may raise difficult issues of factual judgment which an inspector appointed under the statutory scheme is more appropriately placed to decide than the high court on judicial review [22]. under the statutory scheme a listed building means a building which is included in [the] list. it is an essential element that the thing in issue be a building. if it is not in truth a building at all, there is nothing to say that the mere inclusion in the list will make it otherwise. section 7 prohibits the demolition of a listed building, and s.9(1) makes contravention of that prohibition a criminal offence. but there is nothing to prevent the accused arguing that the item demolished is not a building and so not within the definition [24]. as such, the question of whether the thing listed is in fact a building can be considered by the inspector on a statutory appeal [25]. the enforcement appeal must be remitted to the first respondent for redetermination [26]. the application for listed building consent can be dealt with by agreement [27]. the relevant test for a building there is a need for general guidance on the legal principles in play in determining whether something constitutes a building [28]. in skerritts of nottingham v secretary of state for the environment transport and regions [2000] jpl 1025 a three-fold test was adopted considering size, permanence and degree of physical attachment [46]. this case is important as the three-fold test was treated as of general application in the planning context [50]. along with other jurisprudence, it indicated a move away from real property analogies. lacking a preferable alternative, and as the same definition of building as was in issue in skerritts was adopted in the listed buildings act, it is difficult to see any reason in principle why the same test should not apply [52]. the application of this test to the items is something to be considered in the context of the remittal of the appeal to the first respondent [58].