habitual residence lord wilson (with whom lady hale and lord toulson agree) observes that two consequences flow from the modern international primacy of the concept of a childs habitual residence. first, it is not in the interests of children routinely to be left without a habitual residence [30]. second, the english courts interpretation of the concept of habitual residence should be consonant with its international interpretation [31]. the present case, however, involved a third aspect of the concept of habitual residence: the circumstances in which a child loses his or her habitual residence [32]. the traditional english law approach to this issue is heavily dependent upon parental intention. in particular, in in re j (a minor), lord brandon observed that a person may cease to be habitually resident in a country in a single day if he or she leaves it with a settled intention not to return and settle elsewhere [33-34]. lord wilson notes that the supreme court in a v a held that the english concept of habitual residence should be governed by the criterion set out in the cjeu jurisprudence: namely, that there be some degree of integration by the child in a social and family environment. this focuses on the childs situation, with parental intention being merely one relevant factor [35-38]. lord wilson identifies two points in the cjeu jurisprudence relevant to the issue of when habitual residence is lost. first, the effect of recital 12 to the brussels ii regulation is that, where the interpretation of the concept of habitual residence can reasonably follow two paths, the courts should follow the path perceived better to serve the interests of children. second, the cjeu has indorsed the view that, although it is conceivable that a child may have no habitual residence, this will only be in exceptional cases [40-44]. lord wilson concludes that the modern concept of a childs habitual residence operates in such a way as to make it highly unlikely, albeit conceivable, that a child will be left without a habitual residence; the concept operates in the expectation that, when a child gains a new habitual residence, he or she loses their old one. lord brandons observation in in re j should no longer be regarded as correct, and hogg j fell into error in being guided by it [45-47]. lord wilson therefore states that the correct question is whether b had by 13 february 2014 achieved the requisite degree of disengagement from her english environment [48]. he concludes that, taken cumulatively, the factors pointing to the conclusion that b had not by 13 february 2014 achieved the requisite degree of disengagement compel the conclusion that she retained habitual residence in england [49-50]. accordingly, the appellants application under the 1989 act can and should proceed to substantive determination by the high court (family division) [51]. lord sumption (dissenting) considers that hogg j made no error of law and, having heard and reviewed the evidence, was entitled to find that b lost her habitual residence in england on 3 february 2014 [64-80]. lord clarke agrees [89-95]. inherent jurisdiction given the majoritys conclusion on habitual residence, it is unnecessary to decide whether the inherent jurisdiction can be exercised. lady hale and lord toulson observe that none of the reasons for caution when deciding whether to exercise the inherent jurisdiction has much force in this case. they consider that the jurisdiction is not confined to exceptional circumstances; it could have been exercised if the court held that b required protection [59-62]. lord wilson agrees, but leaves open the question of whether it would have been appropriate to exercise the inherent jurisdiction in this case [53]. lord sumption (dissenting) considers that, unless the inherent jurisdiction is reserved for exceptional cases, it may be exercised in a manner which cuts across the statutory scheme. he considers that the jurisdiction could not have been exercised in this case [81-87]. lord clarke, noting that the jurisdiction must be exercised with great caution, agrees that it should not be used on the facts of this case [96-97]. this summary is provided to assist in understanding the courts decision. it does not form part of the reasons for the decision. the full judgment of the court is the only authoritative document. judgments are public documents and are available at: http://supremecourt.uk/decided-cases/index.html