mr georges first argument is that on its natural meaning, (i) revocation of a deportation order under s. 5(2) of the 1971 act must reverse all the consequences of the order listed in s. 5(1), including therefore the invalidation of the leave to remain, and (ii) that the words shall cease to have effect in s. 5(2) govern both the citizenship and revocation possibilities in that subsection. however, neither point is compelling. the wording of the subsections does not provide a conclusive answer to the question in the appeal [10-11]. importantly, the 1971 act has consistently been treated as meaning that revocation does not revive prior leave to remain. draft immigration rules which made this clear were prepared (and considered by parliament) alongside the 1971 act, and every subsequent version of the immigration rules has contained the same statement. each version has been laid before parliament. likewise, successive editions of practitioner textbooks have taken the same position [12]. revival of prior leave to remain is not the natural meaning of s. 5 of the 1971 act. it is a significant and far-reaching legal concept, and it is likely that if intended, it would have been explicitly provided [29]. the treatment of s. 5(2) of the 1971 act in successive rules laid before parliament clearly demonstrates that there was no legislative assumption that the effect of revocation of a deportation order was revival of prior leave to remain [30]. mr georges second argument was that other immigration statutes, particularly s. 76 of the 2002 act, indicate that the proper interpretation of the 1971 act is that revocation of a deportation order revives leave to remain. s. 76 provides a power for the secretary of state to revoke ilr if a person is liable to deportation but cannot be deported for legal reasons. mr george argued that this power would be superfluous if the making of a deportation order irrevocably cancelled ilr [13-14]. however, this is incorrect. while the legal impediment to mr georges deportation arose only after his deportation order was made, in other cases the legal impediment would be apparent prior to this point, and so the order would never be made. s. 76 provides a power for the secretary of state to revoke ilr and instead provide for limited or conditional leave. in any event the only import of this argument goes to parliaments intention when it passed the 1971 act: the legislative history set out at [12] demonstrates that parliament intended a deportation order irrevocably to extinguish prior leave to remain [16-18]. a number of arguments based on other statutes and situations were raised. where an individual previously possessing ilr had been deported, that individual might need to return to the uk for a brief period. the secretary of state would need to revoke the deportation order and make a fresh grant of conditional leave. it could not be right that in such a situation the previous ilr would revive, and this provided some limited support for the secretary of states position. the immigration (leave to enter and remain) order 2000 did not alter this conclusion, since the issue is the construction of the 1971 act, and the problem existed prior to 2000 [19-21]. mr george had based an argument on an analogy with s. 10 of the immigration and asylum act 1999. however, that issue was not squarely before the court, and it would be wrong to determine its interpretation in the abstract [25-26]. the same was true of the uk borders act 2007 [27-28]. more fundamentally, it is wrong to reason from suggested scenarios under later acts to the meaning of an earlier act. later statutes are not reliable guides to the meaning of earlier ones, particular in areas where there have been fast-moving changes to the legislation [30].