judicial review is not the only course of action available to challenge the conduct of a public body. public bodies are not immune from the ordinary application of the common law, including the law of confidentiality [28]. this case should be approached from the perspective of the common law of confidentiality [17, 28]. it is a well-established principle of the law of confidentiality that where information of a personal or confidential nature is obtained or received in the exercise of a legal power or in furtherance of a public duty, the recipient will in general owe a duty to the person from whom the information was received or it relates. the tax affairs of individual taxpayers are matters between hmrc and the taxpayer, and confidentiality is a vital element in the working of the system [17]. however, this principle may be overridden by explicit statutory provisions [18]. by taking together ss.5, 9 and 51(2) of the 2005 act, hmrcs interpretation of the phrase disclosure made for the purpose of a function of hmrc in s.18(2)(a)(i), would permit disclosure of anything which in the view of hmrc is necessary, expedient, incidental, conducive to or in connection with the exercise of the functions of the collection and management of revenue. however, if this interpretation was correct the provisions permitting disclosure in the specific circumstances in s.18(2)(b) to (j) would be superfluous. furthermore, such a construction would run counter to the principle of legality, by which fundamental rights cannot be overridden by general or ambiguous words [19]. in enacting the 2005 act, parliament cannot have envisaged that it was authorising hmrc officials such a wide ranging discretion to disclose confidential information about the affairs of individual taxpayers, limited only by the rationality test applied in judicial review claims, as this would significantly undermine the primary duty of confidentiality in s.18(1) [22]. the correct interpretation of section 18(2)(a)(i) is that it permits disclosure to the extent reasonably necessary for hmrc to fulfil its primary function [23]. it is for the court to decide whether there has been a breach of confidentiality by applying the law to its own judgment of the facts. the opinion of the individual who has disclosed the information is not irrelevant, but the court will decide what weight it should be given [26]. this principle applies whether the duty of confidentiality is contractual or where, as in the current case, the person or body owing a duty of confidentiality holds a public office, is a public body, or is performing a public function, subject to any contrary statutory provision [27, 29]. an impermissible disclosure of confidential information is no less impermissible because the information is passed on in confidence, or off the record [31]. the information supplied by mr hartnett to the journalists about mr mckenna and ingenious media was confidential in nature, in respect of which hmrc owed a duty of confidentiality under s.18(1) of the 2005 act [32]. the fact that mr hartnett did not anticipate his comments being reported is not a justification for making them [35]. the desire to foster good relations with the media and to publicise hmrcs view about tax avoidance schemes and speculation that the journalists may have subsequently informed mr hartnett about other tax avoidance schemes do not provide sufficient justification for the disclosures either [34]. the disclosures by mr hartnett were not therefore justified under s.18(2)(a) of the 2005 act [36].