the flag protests presented the police service of northern ireland with enormous, almost impossible difficulties [1]. there can be no suggestion that they failed to treat them with sufficient seriousness. this case is not about the sincerity and authenticity of those efforts, it is about whether, corporately, the police were sufficiently aware of the full range and scope of the powers available to them [3]. the police have a duty, under the general law, to prevent the commission of offences. participating in an un-notified parade is a criminal offence under the 1998 act and as such the police therefore had the power to prevent the parades. the police failed properly to appreciate this, instead believing that they only had a power to prevent the commission of general public order offences [10]. the police were not required to form a judgment as to whether a parade should take place, but they were required to decide whether the parade was taking place legally. failure to notify a proposed parade strikes at the heart of the effective functioning of the parades commission and therefore at the successful implementation of the 1998 act. this act represented a paradigm shift away from the old system where police were drawn into the controversial role of deciding which parades should be permitted to take place and under what conditions they should be allowed to proceed [63]. the police failed to recognise that the integrity of the system depended on the enforcement of the requirement to notify an intention to hold a parade [64]. it is the police, not the parades commission, who have the responsibility for preventing un-notified parades from taking place [45]. the police mistakenly believed that they were obliged by article 11 of the european convention on human rights (freedom of assembly and association) to facilitate peaceful protests, even though they thought the protests were technically illegal. to the contrary, they had an inescapable duty to prevent, where possible, what were plainly illegal parades from taking place and to protect those whose rights under article 8 of the european convention (respect for private life) were in peril of being infringed, subject to operational constraints. in general, a decision to disperse a parade or protest which has not been lawfully notified will not infringe article 11. there was no warrant for allowing article 11 considerations to determine how the parades should be policed [60-62]. the high court was therefore right to conclude that the police laboured under a misapprehension as to the extent of their powers [70]. the polices policy did not, however, have the intention or the effect of undermining the 1998 act [66]. the police had an operational discretion in deciding how to respond to the parades. discussion of what action might have been taken had the police properly understood the limits of their powers is unlikely to was unhelpful [74]. difficulties in making policing decisions should not be underestimated, especially since these frequently require to be made in fraught circumstances [76]. the absence of a more proactive approach was not caused by police inertia, but by a concatenation of unfortunate circumstances, including misunderstandings about the powers available to them [77].