issue (i) until 1960 the convention unquestionably applied to the territory now comprised in the sbas [63]. treaty obligations cease to apply to a territory where it secedes from the state which entered into the treaty, or where a formerly dependent territory becomes independent of the parent state which entered into the treaty [64]. the cyprus act 1960 did not alter the status of the sbas but merely excluded them from the transfer of territory to the new republic of cyprus when it became independent [69]. as a matter of international law the convention continues to apply to the sbas by virtue of the declaration in 1956, in the same way it applied to the colony of cyprus before 1960. article vii(4) of the protocol provides that where a state made a declaration under article 40(1) or (2) of the convention extending its application to a territory for whose international relations it was responsible, and then acceded to the protocol, the declaration should apply to the protocol also, unless that state notified the secretary-general to the contrary. no further declaration was required to extend the protocol to dependent territories where the original convention applied. the uk acceded to the protocol without any reservation relating to the sbas. since the convention continued to apply to the sbas after 1960, the protocol applies there also [71]. issue (ii) the convention does not entitle the respondents to be resettled in the uk metropolitan territory. a states duties under the convention to a refugee reaching a particular territory for whose international relations the state is responsible are in principle and in normal circumstances limited to providing and securing the refugees convention rights in that context [89]. the widespread use of colonial clauses in international treaties reflects the principle that for certain purposes, including the application of treaties, dependent territories of a state are treated as having a status in international law distinct from that of the parent states metropolitan territory [76]. like many multilateral treaties, the convention was framed to apply only to a states home country or metropolitan territory unless extended to other territories under article 40 [78]. article 40 suggests that for the purposes of the convention the metropolitan territory and its dependent territories are to be treated as separate units [80]. similarly, other articles of the convention indicate that the metropolitan territory is to be treated as distinct such as articles 15, 17 to 24, 26, 19, 32 and 34 [81-88]. issue (iii) the respondents submission that the 2003 memorandum was not a proper basis for the provision of the support for refugees required by the convention is rejected [103]. there are uniquely close practical links between the sbas and cyprus [91-93]. the convention does refer to the appropriate treatment of refugees in a states territory and the provision of facilities to refugees there. but nothing in the convention is expressly directed to a situation like that which exists in cyprus and nothing in it is expressly inconsistent with the nature of the arrangements which the uk has made with cyprus [94]. international courts and tribunals will interpret a treaty in line with article 31(1) of the vienna convention on the law of treaties. they will endeavour to place the factual situation as it has developed since the inception of the treaty within the context of the preserved and developing treaty relationship in order to achieve its object and purpose in so far as that is feasible [95]. subject to issues about the precise interpretation of certain articles, the court does not find objection in principle to some, most or all of the supporting facilities required for refugees being provided by co-operative and effective arrangements with the republic. the more difficult issues are as to its application to those already accepted as lawful refugees [96]. issues (iv) and (v) have been left for future determination and further submissions. the parties may be able to reach agreement without further argument on those issues [104-114]. so far as they remain in dispute the appeal should be relisted for further submissions as soon as practicable [115].