the purpose of the european council framework decision 2002/584/jha of 13 june 2002 (the framework decision) and part 1 of the act was to create a simplified and accelerated procedure based on mutual recognition [7]. the courts of states being asked to consider eaws should generally take information contained in them at face value. an eaws validity depends on whether the prescribed particulars are found in it, not on whether they are correct. a defendant cannot normally challenge its validity by reference to extraneous evidence. if this is true of information in an eaw which was wrong at the time of issue, it is true for information which was correct at the time of issue but ceased to be correct due to subsequent events. a eaw is either valid or not valid. it cannot change over time [8]. it does not follow that nothing can be done to correct prescribed particulars that have become incorrect but the remedy must be at the stage when the court is deciding whether to extradite [9]. lord sumption drew attention to two safeguards against unjustified extradition in this context. the first was mutual trust between parties to the framework decision to ensure information in a eaw is true. the requesting authority has the right to forward additional information at any time and the requested uk authority has the right to receive it and to request further information [10]. the second safeguard is the courts inherent right to ensure its process is not abused, for example, where an eaw has been obtained for improper purposes [11]. a court can question statements made in eaw on the grounds of an abuse of process. however, lord sumption noted that: (a) this jurisdiction is exceptional; (b) the facts needed to correct the error must be beyond legitimate doubt and abuse of process must not become an indirect way of challenging the factual basis of conduct alleged in a eaw; (c) the error must be material to the operation of the statutory scheme. it is inconsistent with the framework decision to refuse to execute a eaw, in which the prescribed particulars were included, because of immaterial errors [13]. in the present case, the eaw was valid when it was issued to mr zakrzewski. it did not become invalid when the aggregation order was made. the particulars of sentence were no longer complete but they were not wrong. the evidence is that in polish law the original sentences remain valid but the cumulative one determines what period of imprisonment will be treated as satisfying them [14]. the fact that the imprisonment period which would satisfy the four original sentences was shortened was immaterial, as even the shorter sentences were longer than the minimum of 4 months required for disclosing an extradition offence under the act [15]. the sentence of the court will rarely be the current operative sentence since the period to be served will be affected by factors such as remission or parole as well as aggregation. criminal procedures vary from one jurisdiction to another without affecting the ordinary criteria for extradition or undermining the purpose of the framework decision or part i of the act [16].