national limitation periods are permissible under eu law but they should not operate so as to render practically impossible or excessively difficult the exercise of eu law rights [15]; whether or not they do so is a matter for the national courts to determine in light of the european principles of effectiveness and legal certainty [12]. eu law does not require that the interpretation or true effect of a statutory limitation period be clear beyond doubt [20-22]. the true test is more flexible and does not impose a requirement for absolute clarity. instead what is required is that national law is sufficiently clear, precise and foreseeable as to enable individuals to ascertain their rights and obligations and exercise those rights without excessive difficulty [23-24]. section 47a of the 1998 act satisfies that test as it is sufficiently clear, precise and foreseeable as to enable individuals to ascertain when the limitation period commences. in this case, the statutory limitation period commenced following the expiry of the time within which the respondents could appeal against the commissions infringement decision; it did not commence following the expiry of the time within which the respondents could appeal against the cfis decision as to the level of the fine [29]. the competition act 1998 repeatedly distinguishes between infringement decisions on the one hand and penalty decisions on the other, making clear that only infringement decisions are of relevance in determining the date upon which a limitation period commences: see e.g. sections 31, 32, 36, 46 and 47a [30]. given that basf did not appeal against the commissions infringement decision it was sufficiently clear that the two-year limitation period started on 31 january 2002 following the expiry of the time for appealing against the commissions infringement decision. as the operation of the statutory time limit is sufficiently clear, precise and foreseeable the statute did not render it excessively difficult for the appellants to exercise their eu law rights. consequently, eu law does not require that a power to extend time be treated as existing. indeed, it is clear that the secretary of state in making the cat rules deliberately decided that there should be no power to extend time for the commencement of damages claims [42]. had the court found that the statutory limitation period failed to comply with the european principles of effectiveness and legal certainty then the united kingdom would have been in breach of its obligations under eu law and state liability would have arisen. however, even in such circumstances the appellants could not have brought follow-on damages claims against the respondents as eu law does not require the setting aside as between civil parties of a limitation defence, successfully established under domestic law, on the grounds that its effect would have been insufficiently clear, precise and foreseeable prior to the court decision establishing it [44-47].