it was important to identify the different rights the appellants individually enjoyed, and thus what the secretary of state needed to establish in order to remove them: ms sadovska had a right of permanent residence in the uk and could not be expelled unless she had abused her rights within the meaning of article 35 of the directive. a communication in 2014 from the european commission giving guidance on the directive explained that a marriage of convenience was a marriage contracted with the predominant purpose of enjoying the right of free movement. it was not enough that the marriage might bring incidental immigration and other benefits, and the predominant purpose must be the purpose of both parties [21-24, 29]. mr malik was liable to be removed as an over-stayer. had he succeeded in marrying ms sadovska he would have acquired a right of residence in the uk under the directive as a family member of an eu national working here. the directive also required member states to facilitate the entry and residence of the partner of an eu citizen if it was a durable relationship, duly attested [25-26]. both appellants enjoyed rights under articles 8 and 12 of the european convention on human rights to a private and family life, and to marry and found a family [27]. the 2006 regulations permitted the secretary of state to take steps to remove ms sadovska on the basis of reasonable grounds to suspect that she had entered or attempted to enter a marriage of convenience, but she was entitled to an appeal where the facts and circumstances were fully investigated. the tribunal had to form its own view of the facts from the evidence presented. it was not for her to establish that her relationship with mr malik was a genuine and lasting one, but for the secretary of state to establish that it fell within the definition of a marriage of convenience [28]. the tribunal had also to be satisfied that the removal of ms sadovska from the country where she had lived and worked for so long with other family members would be a proportionate response to the abuse of rights, rather than merely the prevention of the marriage [30]. as the tribunal had not analysed ms sadovskas rights this way, it was not possible for the supreme court to conclude that the secretary of state had proved that the narrow grounds for taking away her established rights existed [31]. mr malik had no established rights but if he could produce evidence of a durable relationship with ms sadovska, it would be for the secretary of state to show that it was not, or that there were other good reasons to deny him entry. again, the supreme court could not conclude that, had his case been approached in the right way, the outcome would have inevitably been the same [32-33]. accordingly, the burden of proof of establishing that the proposed marriage is one of convenience falls on the secretary of state. the appeal is allowed and the case remitted for a full rehearing by the first-tier tribunal, at which the inconsistencies in the appellants interviews will be considered along with their evidence supportive of a genuine relationship dating back several months, and the circumstances in which the interviews took place will also be taken into account [34]. the appellants echr rights did not add anything further to their claims in the light of this conclusion. such rights would not in any event prevent a state from taking steps to prevent sham marriages, if it could show that the marriage would indeed be a sham [35].