


      Kay Swee Pin
      v
      Singapore Island Country Club and others
    [2010] SGHC 175Case Number:Suit No 973 of 2008Decision Date:10 June 2010Tribunal/Court:High CourtCoram:
      Belinda Ang Saw Ean J
    Counsel Name(s):
      S H Almenoar and Raji Ramason (R Ramason & Almenoar) for the plaintiff; 
      Ang Cheng Hock SC, Ramesh s/o Selvaraj and Eunice Chew (Allen & Gledhill LLP) for the defendants.
    Parties:
      Kay Swee Pin — 
      Singapore Island Country Club and others
    
10 June 2010Judgment reserved.

        Belinda Ang Saw Ean J:
Introduction
1       The plaintiff, Kay Swee Pin
                    (“KSP”), is a principal member of the first defendant, Singapore
                    Island Country Club (“SICC” or “the Club”). The
                    second to thirteen defendants (collectively, “D2” to
                    “D13”) are being sued as members of the General Committee of the
                    SICC (“the GC”). The subject matter of this libel action is a
                    notice suspending KSP’s club membership for the period from 19 May
                    2006 to 18 May 2007 (“the Notice”) which was, by order of the
                    GC, posted for a year on the notice boards of SICC’s Bukit and Island
                    clubhouses.
The background
2       This libel action is a sequel to KSP’s
                    successful judicial review proceedings against SICC, whereby her year-long
                    suspension as a member of the SICC was held to be invalid by the Court of Appeal
                    (see Kay Swee Pin v Singapore Island Country Club
                    [2008] 2 SLR (R) 802 (“Kay Swee Pin v SICC
                        (CA)”)). To vindicate her reputation, KSP is seeking
                    substantial damages for defamation from the defendants. The details of the
                    proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee of the SICC (“the
                    DC”), and the judicial review proceedings in the High Court (see
                        Kay Swee Pin v Singapore Island Country Club
                    [2007] SGHC 166 (“Kay Swee Pin v SICC
                        (HC)”) for the High Court’s grounds of decision) are
                    set out in Kay Swee Pin v SICC (CA).
3       The brief factual background for present
                    purposes is this. In 1992, KSP made an application to SICC to be approved as a
                    principal member after purchasing her membership from an existing member. In her
                    application form, KSP declared one Ng Kong Yeam (“NKY”) as her
                    spouse. As a spousal member, NKY would be entitled to use the Club’s
                    facilities. For clarity, I should reproduce here the text of the declaration in
                    the application form completed by KSP. It stated:
I, the undersigned, declare that all the information given herein is
                        true.
The signature of KSP as the proposed transferee followed immediately
                    after the declaration.
4       In August 2005, acting upon concerns raised
                    by some SICC members over KSP’s marital status, the second defendant
                    (“D2”), who was the then President of SICC, asked the membership
                    department to check whether KSP’s membership file contained a copy of
                    KSP’s marriage certificate. None was found. This was not surprising
                    because prior to 1994, the Club did not require a member to submit a copy of his
                    or her marriage certificate when registering his or her spouse as a spousal
                    member to use the Club’s facilities. The membership department then asked
                    KSP for a copy of her marriage certificate in order to update her membership
                    record. On 10 September 2005, KSP provided SICC with a copy of her marriage
                    certificate, which showed that her marriage to NKY was registered on
                    24 August 2005 in Las Vegas, State of Nevada.
The charge against KSP
5       On 26 September 2005, the Club received a
                    formal complaint lodged by a SICC member, one John Lee (“JL”)
                    against KSP. JL called upon SICC to investigate concerns among SICC members over
                    KSP’s marital status as she was running for the post of Lady Captain of
                    the Lady Golfers’ Sub-Committee of SICC (“Lady Captain for
                    Golf”). The complaint was referred to the GC. In October 2005, the
                    GC decided to institute disciplinary proceedings against KSP. The DC of SICC
                    duly convened a hearing in accordance with Rule 34 (a) of the Club’s
                    rules (“the Rules”). On 18 November 2005, a charge against
                    KSP (“the Charge”) was framed in the following manner:
                        [note: 1]
...[Y]ou have acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the Club
                        and its members in that, you have falsely declared Mr Ng Kong Yeam
                        (NRIC S2504572/F) as your spouse, to make use of the Club’s facilities
                        since September 1992, when the marriage certificate submitted by you on
                        [Saturday] 10 September 2005 showed that your marriage to Mr Ng
                        Kong Yeam was only registered on 24 August 2005 in Las Vegas, State of
                        Nevada.
Proceedings before the DC
6       KSP’s answer to the Charge was that even
                    though she had formally registered her marriage to NKY only on 24 August
                    2005, it did not mean that they were not married much earlier. She maintained
                    that they had clearly been husband and wife for over 20 years, and this was
                    acknowledged by everyone to be so. Their daughter from the marriage was already
                    18 years old. In her written responses of 7 January 2006 and
                    8 February 2006, KSP informed the Club of her Chinese customary marriage to
                    NKY on 12 January 1982 having observed traditional and customary rites in
                    the marriage ceremony. To substantiate her claim, KSP submitted to the DC, four
                    statutory declarations confirming her customary marriage to NKY and the legal
                    opinion of Messers Haris Azmi & Associates (“HAA”), a
                    Malaysian law firm, that confirmed that marriages solemnised under any custom
                    prior to 1 March 1982 would be deemed to be registered under s 4 of
                    the Law Reform (Marriage and Divorce) Act 1976 (No 164 of 1976)
                        (Malaysia).[note: 2] HAA
                    further opined that KSP and NKY’s marriage on 12 January 1982 in
                    accordance with Chinese custom would be deemed to be registered under the
                    aforementioned statutory provision.
7       At the hearing on the Charge on 11 February
                    2006, the DC’s concern was whether KSP was divorced from her first
                    husband, Koh Ho Ping (“KHP”), when she joined the Club in 1992.
                    SICC wrote to KSP seeking information and documents relating to the dissolution
                    of her marriage to KHP. In response to the Club’s request, KSP said that
                    she was unable to recall the exact date of the dissolution of her first
                    marriage, which had taken place more than 20 years ago before she joined SICC as a member. She remarked that her first
                    marriage was an unhappy period in her life that was best forgotten. She also
                    confirmed that she did not have any documents relating to the dissolution of
                    that marriage. In any case, she felt that details of the dissolution of her
                    first marriage were irrelevant to the Charge. Her explanation of why she and NKY
                    had registered their marriage in Las Vegas on 24 August 2005 was that they
                    had done so in order to provide a marriage certificate as requested by SICC.
                    Significantly, KSP pointed out that if the SICC had insisted on the submission
                    of a marriage certificate at the time she applied to be a member in 1992, she
                    and NKY could easily have complied by registering their marriage at that
                    time.
8       Based on the divorce documents filed in court
                    (which were obtained by the Club and made available to the DC), KSP filed her
                    divorce petition on 23 December 1982. The Decree Nisi was granted on
                    28 November 1983, and the Decree Absolute was granted on 2 March 1984.
                    To the DC, the court documents showed that KSP was already divorced from KHP at
                    the time she joined SICC. On that basis and in the light of her marriage to NKY
                    on 12 January 1982 at the New Hong Kong Restaurant, Johor Bahru, Malaysia,
                    according to Chinese customary rites, the DC recommended that the Charge be
                    withdrawn. The DC specifically stated in its findings that it was unable to
                    confirm whether Singapore law would recognise the Malaysian customary marriage
                    between KSP and NKY in 1982 in view of the fact that KSP’s divorce was
                    only finalised in 1984.
9       The DC's findings and recommendations were not
                    accepted by the GC. In its deliberations, it noted that KSP’s first
                    marriage had been dissolved only on 2 March 1984 whereas her customary
                    marriage to NKY had been entered into on 12 January 1982. The GC concluded
                    that, on the evidence, KSP had still been married to KHP on 12 January
                    1982. As such, she could not have had the requisite legal capacity to marry NKY
                    on that date. The GC remitted the case back to the DC with directions that it
                    decide the complaint on the basis that NKY was not “the spouse at the
                    material time of nomination to the Club",[note: 3] and that it take into account any
                    relevant mitigating factors.[note: 4]
10     The DC met again on 21 April 2006 to
                    deliberate and make its recommendations on the complaint to the GC based on the
                    fact that NKY was not a spouse. In that connection, the DC noted that the
                    ordinary grammatical meaning of the word “spouse” is one’s
                    husband or wife under a valid marriage.[note: 5] In the report which it issued after
                    this meeting ("the Second DC Report"), the DC identified the following as
                    mitigating factors:[note: 6]
(a)  Prior to January 1994, the Club did not require
                        a member to provide a copy of his or her marriage certificate in order to
                        register his or her spouse as spousal member.
(b)  If
                        the Club had required such a certificate when KSP applied to join as a
                        member, she and NKY could have complied with such a requirement.
(c)  KSP did not hide her marital status. Everyone who knew her
                        acknowledged NKY and her as husband and wife. In fact, KSP and NKY had a
                        daughter who was already 18 years old.
(d)  There was
                        no attempt to cheat or deceive the Club.
(e)  NKY had
                        used the Club’s facilities as a spousal member, not with the intention
                        of cheating, but as a result of a technical breach of the
                    Rules.
11     The DC recommended that SICC be compensated
                    for green fees amounting to $12,500 that it could have collected from KSP for
                    NKY's golf games from 2001 to date (the records for the period prior to 2001
                    were not available). The DC was of the view that this was a sufficient
                    penalty.
Suspension of KSP’s membership and the Notice
12     The GC met on 8 May 2006 to consider the
                    Second DC Report. The GC adopted the recommendations, but, in addition, decided
                    to suspend KSP’s club membership for a year from 19 May 2006 to
                    18 May 2007. Following the decision of the GC, SICC posted on the notice
                    boards at its clubhouses copies of the Notice, which read as follows:
SUSPENSION OF MEMBERSHIP
Member’s Name: Kay Swee Pin
Membership Number    : K 1074
Incident : Acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the Club and
                        its members in that, she had falsely declared Mr Ng Kong Yeam as her
                        spouse to make use of the Club Facilities since September 1992, when the
                        marriage certificate submitted by her on Saturday, 10 September 2005
                        showed that her marriage to Mr Ng Kong Yeam was only registered on
                        24 August 2005 in Las Vegas, State of Nevada.
Period of Suspension: One year from 19 May 2006 to 18 May 2007
                        (both dates inclusive).
BY ORDER OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE
13     It is SICC’s standard operating practice
                    to put up notices, such as the Notice in this case, on its notice boards to
                    inform SICC members of the outcome of concluded disciplinary hearings involving
                    SICC members. The Notice remained on SICC’s notice boards for the duration
                    of KSP’s suspension, namely, from 19 May 2006 to 18 May
                    2007.
14     When KSP learnt about her suspension and the
                    posting of the Notice on SICC’s notice boards, she wrote to the GC on
                    25 May 2006 expressing her shock at not having been informed of her
                    suspension before it was announced to the Club’s members via the Notice.
                    In the same letter, she said that she and NKY had been seriously maligned. The
                    Notice, she pointed out, did not refer to her marriage to NKY on 12 January
                    1982. She reminded the GC that she had submitted proof that her 1982 marriage
                    was “proper and legal under existing Malaysian marriage
                        laws”.[note: 7] SICC
                    replied on 7 June 2006 to say that it was not the Club’s practice to
                    put up suspension notices only after the member in question had been notified.
                    Extremely upset, KSP wrote a second letter to the GC on 24 June 2006
                    setting out her arguments as to why there had been a serious miscarriage of
                    justice, viz: at the time she declared NKY to be
                    her spouse in her application form, she believed in good faith that she was
                    validly married to NKY and did not know that her declaration was in fact false;
                    thus, she could not have falsely declared NKY to be her spouse. She pointed out
                    that no one had ever suggested that her marriage to NKY was invalid until the
                    impending election for the Lady Captain for Golf. Moreover, she asserted that
                    since she and NKY were in a strong financial position and have paid $190,000 for
                    membership of the Club, they would not have gone to the extent of lying about
                    their relationship just to save some green fees which they could well
                    afford.
15     Receiving no response from the SICC, KSP wrote
                    a third letter on 18 September 2006 requesting that the Club, at its annual
                    general meeting (“AGM”), pass a resolution to revoke her
                    suspension. SICC rejected that request. On 28 September 2006, KSP e-mailed
                    SICC stating that the Rules allowed SICC members to discuss any matter at an AGM
                    provided seven clear days’ notice was given. SICC replied to say that her
                    request was out of order, and that since, during her period of suspension, she
                    was not permitted to enter the Club’s premises, she would not be allowed
                    to participate in the forthcoming AGM.
The judicial review proceedings
16     As we now know, the events described above
                    culminated in KSP’s application to the High Court via Originating Summons
                    No 2125 of 2006 (“OS 2125/2006”) for judicial review of the
                    Club’s decision to suspend her membership for a year and for revocation of
                    the suspension. It is not necessary to go into the arguments canvassed before
                    the High Court; suffice it to say that the High Court dismissed KSP’s
                    application in OS 2125/2006. On appeal vide Civil Appeal No 46 of 2007
                    (“CA 46/2007”), the Court of Appeal set aside the suspension order
                    of the GC on three grounds. First, it found that the GC had erred in failing to
                    focus on whether the Charge was made out, and that the GC’s decision was
                    irrational and unreasonable. The essence of the Charge was that KSP had made a
                    false declaration, which necessarily meant that it had to be proved that when
                    she filled in the name of NKY as her spouse in the application form, she knew
                    that that was a false statement and made that false statement deliberately so
                    that NKY could make use of the Club’s facilities. These two matters, the
                    Court of Appeal held, were clearly not considered as the GC addressed its mind
                    instead to the wrong question of whether KSP was validly married to NKY when she
                    declared him to be her spouse in 1992. The Court of Appeal’s conclusion on
                    this point is succinctly put by Chan Sek Keong CJ at [64] of Kay Swee Ping v SICC (CA) in the following terms:
[W]e came to the conclusion that the GC erred in law in focusing its
                        discussion … on whether [KSP’s] customary marriage with [NKY]
                        in 1982 was valid or not, and in failing to ask itself whether the Charge
                        was made out. We were also of the view that the GC’s finding that
                        [KSP] was guilty as charged was irrational and unreasonable. Its reasoning
                        was illogical and was based on a failure to address the Charge. The GC
                        inferred [KSP’s] intention from the consequences of her act, ie, it inferred that because [NKY] had enjoyed the
                        use of the Club’s facilities as a spousal member, [KSP] must have
                        declared him as her spouse with that intention. This was irrational.
17     Second, the Court of Appeal found that the GC
                    had breached the rules of natural justice. For instance, the GC had failed to
                    give KSP an opportunity to respond to JL’s email of 1 April 2006
                    which took issue with the DC’s initial recommendation that the Charge be
                    withdrawn. In particular, KSP was not given the chance to respond to JL’s
                    allegation in the email that her customary marriage was void or to explain why
                    the nullity of that marriage (assuming it was indeed void) did not matter for
                    the purposes of the Charge. The GC had therefore breached its duty to give a
                    fair hearing to KSP. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal said that the GC had
                    prejudged KSP’s guilt which led the GC to reject, for the wrong reasons,
                    the DC’s initial recommendation that the Charge be
                withdrawn.
18     Third, the Court of Appeal held that the
                    Charge was illegal because the Rules only applied to SICC members: at the time
                    KSP named NKY as her spouse in the application form, she was not yet a member of
                    the Club.
19     For these reasons, the Court of Appeal allowed
                    the appeal and declared the suspension order invalid. In addition to ordering a
                    refund of all sums paid by KSP pursuant to the GC’s decision, the Court of
                    Appeal also awarded KSP damages to be assessed by the Registrar. At the hearing
                    of the assessment of damages on 29 August 2008, the Club was ordered to pay
                    (and has since paid) damages in the sum of $72,000, the breakdown of which is as
                        follows:[note: 8]
(a)     the sum of $32,000 for the
                        deprivation of membership rights and privileges as a result of the
                        suspension of KSP’s membership for a year; and
(b)     the sum of $40,000 for mental distress
                        sustained by KSP as a result of the wrongful
                suspension.
Bigamy investigations against KSP
20     After KSP’s successful appeal,
                    in March 2008, JL complained to the Registry of Marriages of her bigamous
                    marriage to NKY. This led to the police investigations into the possible
                    commission of an offence of bigamy. At the time of the trial, no formal charges
                    have been preferred against KSP.
The libel action
21     On 23 December 2008, KSP filed her Writ
                    of Summons in the present libel action. The subject matter of this suit is the
                    Notice. The subject matter of the Notice was also referred to in an announcement
                    published in the June 2006 issue of “Islander”, a monthly publication of SICC. The outcome of
                    the disciplinary proceedings was mentioned in that announcement (“the
                        Islander announcement”), but KSP was
                    not mentioned by name therein. KSP is relying on the Islander announcement as a factor relevant to her claim for
                    aggravated damages (see [24]
                below).
22     As stated, upon judicial review of
                    SICC’s decision in CA 46/2007, the Court of Appeal held that the
                    suspension of KSP was invalid by reason of illegality, breaches of natural
                    justice and procedural impropriety in the conduct of the disciplinary
                    proceedings. In the result, the Notice as a whole published in respect of
                    KSP’s suspension information that was unfounded and wrong. In this
                    context, the words in the Notice were untrue and allegedly defamatory.
                    KSP’s pleaded case is that, in the circumstances described, SICC and D2 to
                    D13 (as members of the GC) had wrongly, falsely and maliciously published the
                    Notice.
23     In claiming that the Notice was libellous, KSP
                    set out in para 8 of the Statement of Claim the alleged meanings which she
                    ascribed to the Notice. Her plea is that the natural and ordinary meanings of
                    the words used in the Notice meant and were understood to mean the
                    following:
(a)     KSP acted in a manner prejudicial to
                        the interests of SICC and its members (“meaning
                    (1)”);
(b)     KSP
                        made a declaration that was false (“meaning
                    (2)”);
(c)     KSP
                        was a dishonest person (“meaning (3)”);
(d)     KSP was a cheat (“meaning
                        (4)”); and
(e)     KSP committed fraud (“meaning
                (5)”).
24     KSP is seeking aggravated and exemplary
                    damages arising out of the fact that (a) the Notice was only removed on
                    19 May 2007, one year after it was put up; (b) SICC refused to remove the
                    Notice despite KSP’s repeated requests that it be removed during the
                    period of her suspension; and (c) the subject matter of the Notice was referred
                    to in the Islander announcement.
25     The defendants do not deny that the Notice was
                    placed on SICC’s notice boards for a year and that it referred to KSP.
                    However, the defendants deny that the Notice was defamatory and contend that the
                    words complained of, in their natural and ordinary meaning, are not capable of
                    bearing any of the defamatory meanings pleaded by KSP. The defendants have also
                    raised the defences of justification and qualified privilege in the event that
                    the words do carry the defamatory meanings pleaded by KSP.
26     On the defence of justification, detailed
                    particulars are given in para 11 of the Defence (Amendment No 1). In
                    particular, the defendants plead in para 7 of the Defence (Amendment
                    No 1) that since KSP was found guilty of the Charge, the Notice, which
                    substantially mirrors the words used in the Charge, accurately summarised the
                    outcome of the disciplinary proceedings against her. At any rate, the defendants
                    contend, the Notice was posted in accordance with the Club’s standard
                    operating practice, and KSP had in fact been found guilty of the Charge at the
                    conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings. Other particulars of justification
                    are referred to later on in this judgment. Paragraph 13 of the Defence
                    (Amendment No 1) contained a plea that the Notice was published on an
                    occasion of qualified privilege. I will return to the defences of justification
                    and qualified privilege later in this judgment.
27     It is convenient to note at the outset that
                    despite their pleaded case, the defendants through their counsel, Mr Ang
                    Cheng Hock SC (“Mr Ang”), have confirmed in their closing
                    submissions that they accept that the words complained of bear meaning (1),
                    meaning (2) and meaning (3), but they deny that those words bear meaning (4) and
                    meaning (5). Mr Ang submits that the words complained of are not capable of
                    bearing a defamatory meaning that is more serious than words to the effect that
                    KSP had made a declaration knowing that it was false and/or was dishonest in
                    this respect.[note: 9] In rejecting meaning (4) and
                    meaning (5), Mr Ang submits that these two meanings are not borne out by
                    the plain words of the Notice, but are instead subjective, strained, forced and
                    the product of an over-elaborate analysis of the Notice.[note: 10]
Issues raised in the libel action
28     There is no dispute that the Notice was
                    published and referred to KSP. The issues in this libel action are as
                    follows:
(a)     whether each of the meanings pleaded
                        by KSP is capable of: (i) being conveyed by the words in the Notice, and
                        (ii) defaming KSP;
(b)     if the answer to (a) is yes, whether the defence of justification is
                        available to the defendants;
(c)     Further, if the answer to (a) is yes, and the defence of
                        justification is not available, whether the Notice was published on an
                        occasion of qualified privilege, and if so, whether the publication of the
                        Notice was actuated by malice so as to defeat the defence of qualified
                        privilege; and
(d)     the quantum of damages payable to KSP, if applicable.
29     One related matter that has to be considered
                    is the doctrine of issue of estoppel. KSP has raised issue estoppel in her Reply
                    (Amendment No 1) in the context of the defendants’ plea that it was
                    not wrong at the material time for SICC to publish the Notice as KSP had been
                    found guilty of the Charge and had thereafter been suspended as a member for one
                    year. In response to the defendants’ plea, KSP has cited her successful
                    appeal in CA 46/2007 – she contends that her suspension was found by the
                    Court of Appeal to be invalid and the defendants are estopped from relying on
                    the findings of the disciplinary proceedings that led to her suspension to
                    validate the posting of the Notice on SICC’s notice boards. In his closing
                    submissions, KSP’s counsel, Mr S H Almenoar
                    (“Mr Almenoar”), referred to Kay Swee Pin
                        v SICC (CA), relying on the judgment as a whole and specific
                    passages therein which, in his view, amount to findings of fact necessary for
                    establishing libel. For example, Mr Almenoar argues that the defendants are
                    estopped from denying that the Charge (and, hence, the Notice) connotes an
                    intention on KSP’s part to cheat or deceive SICC.[note: 11] In relation to the defence of
                    justification, which is based on the premise that the defamatory words are
                    substantially true, Mr Almenoar argues that the plea of justification is
                    tantamount to a collateral attack on the findings of the Court of Appeal, and
                    that is not permissible by virtue of the doctrine of issue estoppel. Moreover,
                    since the GC was wrong to have found KSP guilty of the Charge, the Notice should
                    never have been published and the defendants, so the argument develops, ought
                    not to be allowed to succeed on their defence of justification.[note: 12] On the question of malice in the
                    context of the defendants’ defence of qualified privilege, KSP appeared to
                    be content at the trial to support her allegation of malice by inviting the
                    court to look at the alleged findings of the Court of Appeal, which, in her
                    view, demonstrate malice on the part of the defendants, and did not adduce any
                    evidence to this end.
30     In his opening statement, Mr Ang
                    dismissed as misconceived, KSP’s estoppel argument (as mentioned in the
                    preceding paragraph, KSP relied on the judgment and the alleged findings of the
                    Court of Appeal to invoke the doctrine of issue estoppel as a complete response
                    to the defences raised by the defendants). If KSP’s argument on estoppel
                    is right, the present case would be an open-and-shut case of defamation; the
                    blueprint for her success would be contained in the judgment of the Court of
                    Appeal. On that score, it is appropriate and expedient that I first address the
                    issue estoppel argument, which is, in my view, a short point.
Issue 1: Issue estoppel
31     If KSP is looking to the Court of
                    Appeal’s decision to establish the defendants’ liability in this
                    libel action (or is, at least, seeking to transpose the findings of fact and,
                        inter alia, the conclusions of breach of
                    natural justice from that decision wholesale into this libel action), and to say
                    that the Court of Appeal’s decision is conclusive against the defendants,
                    and if she is indeed entitled to do so, then the Court of Appeal’s
                    judgment is potentially a powerful factual tool in KSP’s hands. For
                    instance, on the question of malice in the context of the defendants’
                    defence of qualified privilege, KSP could potentially defeat any reliance on
                    this defence by inviting the court to look at the alleged findings on malice
                    made by the Court of Appeal without adducing any actual evidence of malice. Even
                    so, Mr Almenoar’s difficulty is that a judgment itself is not
                    admissible to prove the truth of the facts which it state (see Trans-World (Aluminium) Ltd v Cornelder China
                        (Singapore) [2003] 3 SLR(R) 501).
32     It is worthwhile standing back at this
                    juncture from the arguments and details being relied upon. I start with some
                    basic propositions. The principles of res judicata
                    and issue estoppel apply between parties to the earlier proceedings or their
                    privies. This is the long-established principle of mutuality. Mr Ang argues
                    that it cannot be suggested here that either principle has any direct
                    application which gives the Court of Appeal’s judgment in CA 46/2007
                    evidential value in establishing facts that need to be proved in separate
                    proceedings against strangers to the earlier judicial review proceedings,
                    namely, D2 to D13. Mr Almenoar disagrees. He says that D2 to D 13, as
                    members of the GC, may be considered “privies” of SICC. Since the
                    GC is in charge of the management of the SICC, D2 to D13 can be considered
                    privies in interest to SICC. This is because by definition, “privies of
                    the parties” include (see Spencer Bower and
                        Handley: The Doctrine of Res
                        Judicata (LexisNexis, 4th Ed, 2009) at
                    para 9.38):
… any person who succeeds to the rights or liabilities of a party
                        on death, insolvency, by assignment or by statute, or who is otherwise
                        identified in estate or interest. The party estopped by privity must have
                        some interest, legal or beneficial, in the previous litigation or its
                        subject matter, and accordingly assignees are privies of the assignor.
                        Privity was described by the US Supreme Court as a mutual successive
                        relationship to the same right of property, although this cannot be
                        exhaustive. Privity is a matter of substance, not form.
33     In addition, as members of the GC (which, as
                    just mentioned, is in charge of the management of the SICC), D2 to D13 are
                    effectively identical to SICC (see Goh Nellie v Goh Lian
                        Teck [2007] 1 SLR (R) 453 at [32]-[33]
                        (“Goh Nellie”) on persons who
                    are effectively parties).
34     With regard to the requirements to establish
                    issue estoppel, the court in Wing Joo Loong Ginseng Hong
                        (Singapore) Co Pte Ltd v Qinghai Xinyuan Foreign Trade Co Ltd
                    [2009] 2 SLR 814 at [165] reiterated the principles on issue estoppel laid out
                    in Lee Tat Development Pte Ltd v Management Corporation of
                        Grange Heights Strata Title No 301 (No 2) [2005]
                    3 SLR(R) 157 at [14]-[15] as follows:
(a)    There must be a final and conclusive judgment on
                            the merits of the issue which is said to be the subject of an
                            estoppel;
(b)    That judgment must be by a court of competent
                            jurisdiction;
(c)    The parties in the two actions that are being
                            compared must be identical; and
(d)    There must be identity of subject matter in those
                            two actions.
35     On the present facts, it is clear that
                    criterion (d) is not satisfied. The subject matter of the present action and OS
                    2125/2006 are quite different. As Mr Ang rightly pointed out, criterion (d)
                    encapsulates a number of discrete conceptual strands (see Goh
                        Nellie at [34]-[37]).First, the issues have to be identical in
                    the sense that the prior decision must have traversed the same ground as the
                    subsequent proceedings, and the facts and circumstances giving rise to the
                    earlier decision must not have changed or must be incapable of change. Second,
                    the previous determination in question must have been fundamental and not merely
                    collateral to the previous decision such that the decision cannot stand without
                    that determination.
36     Notably, OS 2125/2006 was a judicial review
                    action in which the court was determining whether there had been breaches of
                    natural justice and procedural impropriety in the conduct of the disciplinary
                    proceedings instituted by the GC of SICC against KSP. The present action,
                    however, is a claim in libel in relation to the Notice published by SICC.
                    Although it could be said that the two actions are somewhat related factually,
                    it cannot be said that there is identity in the subject matter of the two
                    proceedings in the sense of the decision by the Court of Appeal traversing the
                    same ground as the present action, such that KSP is entitled to reply on the
                    principle of issue estoppel.
37     The broad grounds of the Court of
                    Appeal’s decision are set out in [16]-[18] above. The issue
                    of whether NKY was, at the material time, KSP’s spouse was not determined
                    by the Court of Appeal; neither was it necessary for the Court of Appeal to make
                    findings of fact on (a) whether or not KSP’s declaration of NKY as her
                    spouse was false and (b) whether or not KSP’s declaration was made with
                    the intention to cheat or deceive the Club in order to register NKY as a user of
                    the Club’s facilities. The Court of Appeal’s decision in CA 46/2007
                    that the suspension was invalid was not even collateral to these two questions,
                    and there is nothing in the judgment to constitute an issue estoppel in the
                    present litigation.
38     Finally, I should mention that the defendants,
                    in raising the defences of justification and qualified privilege, are not
                    seeking to challenge the decision that the suspension was invalid. Hence,
                    Mr Almenoar’s attempt to rely on the extended doctrine of res judicata or the defence of abuse of process is
                    misplaced.
39     For the reasons stated, issue estoppel does
                    not arise in the present case.
Issue 2: Whether each of the meanings pleaded is capable of being
                conveyed by the words complained of and, thus, capable of defaming KSP
The legal principles
40     The principles for determining the natural and
                    ordinary meaning of offending words in a defamation action are not in dispute.
                    They were set out recently in Review Publishing Co Ltd and
                        Another v Lee Hsien Loong and Another [2010]
                    1 SLR(R) 52 (“Review Publishing v Lee Hsien
                        Loong (CA)”) at [27] as follows:

The court decides what meaning the words would have
                            conveyed to an ordinary, reasonable person using his general knowledge
                            and common sense: Jeyaretnam Joshua Benjamin v Goh Chok Tong
                        [1984-1985] SLR 516; [1985] 1 MLJ 334 (“JJB v GCT”) and JJB v
                            LKY (1992) ([19] supra)]. The test is an
                            objective one: it is the natural and ordinary meaning as understood by
                            an ordinary, reasonable person, not unduly suspicious or avid for
                            scandal. The meaning intended by the maker of the defamatory
                        statement is irrelevant. Similarly, the sense in which the words were
                        actually understood by the party alleged to have been defamed is also
                        irrelevant. Nor is extrinsic evidence admissible in
                            construing the words. The meaning must be gathered from the
                        words themselves and in the context of the entire passage in which they are
                        set out. The court is not confined to the literal or
                            strict meaning of the words, but takes into account what the ordinary,
                            reasonable person may reasonably infer from the words. The
                        ordinary, reasonable person reads between the lines. …
[emphasis in original]
41     In determining the meaning of the alleged
                    defamatory words (ie, in determining whether the
                    statements or words complained of are capable of bearing any of the defamatory
                    meanings attributed to them), the court’s task is to put itself in the
                    position of the hypothetical reasonable reader reading the offending literature
                    as a whole without being too analytical or too literal in considering the words
                    used (see Ashok Segar v Kok Fonn Lyn Veronica
                    [2010] SGHC 168 at [39]).
42     The hypothetical reasonable reader may
                    reasonably infer a meaning from the words used. There is an important difference
                    between inferences and implications, and this difference must be appreciated. The
                        inferences that the ordinary reasonable person
                    may draw are based on his general knowledge, common sense and experience, and
                    are entirely permissible. On the other hand, implications are based on extrinsic evidence which is not
                    admissible as a matter of law in the construction of the natural and ordinary
                    meaning of the offending words (see Microsoft
                        Corporation v SM Summit Holdings
                        Ltd [1999] 3 SLR(R) 465 at [53]).
43     After the natural and ordinary meaning of the
                    offending words has been ascertained, the court’s next consideration is
                    whether that meaning is defamatory. For guidance, some definitions of the word
                    “defamatory” which were approved and used in the past are noted in
                        Halsbury’s Laws of Singapore,
                    vol 18 (LexisNexis: 2009 Reissue) (“Halsbury’s”) at para 240.091 as follows
                    (although, admittedly, these definitions are not comprehensive or
                    exhaustive):
There is no exhaustive definition for what constitutes a defamatory
                        statement, since the word ‘defamatory’ is nowhere precisely
                        defined. A statement is defamatory of the person of whom it is published if
                        it tends to lower him in the estimation of right thinking members of society
                        generally or if it exposes him to public hatred, contempt or ridicule or if
                        it causes him to be shunned or avoided. An untrue statement is not
                        necessarily a defamatory statement; in order to be defamatory, the statement
                        must lower the plaintiff in the estimation of others, or expose him to
                        hatred, contempt or ridicule. A person’s reputation is not confined to
                        his general character and standing but extends to his trade, business or
                        profession, and words will be defamatory if they impute lack of
                        qualification, knowledge, skill, capacity, judgment or efficiency in the
                        conduct of his trade, business or professional activity.
44     Consideration has to be given to the actual
                    words used and the circumstances in which they were used. It must be remembered
                    that the context in which the words appear is also important as it may be that
                    the words used cannot be understood in a defamatory sense in certain contexts.
                    The question is how the words would be understood in their proper context, and
                    not how they were meant to be understood by the author/publisher.
The meanings of the words complained of
45     The meanings pleaded in para 8 of the
                    Statement of Claim are reproduced in [23]
                    above. As stated earlier, the defendants accept that the impugned words in the
                    Notice are capable of bearing meaning (1), meaning (2) and meaning (3). In
                    adopting this stance, the defendants are in effect contending that those words,
                    in their natural and ordinary sense, are not capable of bearing in relation to
                    KSP, any meaning beyond the meaning that she made a declaration knowing that it
                    was false and/or was dishonest in this regard. Mr Ang, on behalf of the
                    defendants, submits that the impugned words in the Notice are not capable of
                    bearing meaning (4) and meaning (5).
46     I begin with Mr Almenoar’s
                    submissions. He submits, and rightly so, that the impugned words must be read in
                    the context of the Notice as a whole in order to ascertain whether their natural
                    and ordinary meaning can be any of the meanings pleaded by KSP. The reader
                    looking at the Notice as a whole would have his attention drawn to the heading
                    of the Notice which states in bold letters: “Suspension of
                    Membership”. Mr Almenoar argues that this heading would immediately
                    tell the reader that a member’s membership has been suspended, and the
                    reader would infer that the member must have done something “awfully
                    wrong” for this to happen.[note: 13] The questions that would come to the
                    reader’s mind are: “Who is this member?” and “What
                    did the member do?” Moving down the Notice, the reader finds the answers.
                    The reader is able to easily identify KSP as the member in question as her name
                    and her membership number are on the Notice. As the reader reads on, it will
                    become clear that KSP is said to have “falsely declared Mr Ng Kong
                    Yeam as her spouse in order to make use of [Club’s] facilities”.
                    This statement conveys the meaning that KSP is a dishonest person, and a cheat.
                    In addition, the words “since 1992” suggest to the reader that
                    “the cheating had been continuous for the past 14 years (date of notice
                    19 September 2006)”.[note: 14] Mr Almenoar says the meaning
                    finally conveyed by the Notice as a whole (viz,
                    that KSP had acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the Club as in
                    meaning (1) when read in the light of the allegations that (a) KSP falsely
                    declared NKY as her spouse so that he could make use of the Club’s
                    facilities; (b) KSP was dishonest and cheated in making the false declaration;
                    and (c) NKY as a result obtained the benefit of the use of the Club’s
                    facilities since 1992), is that she was fraudulent and had committed
                    fraud.
47     To reinforce meaning (4), Mr Almenoar
                    points to how the Court of Appeal interpreted the Charge in CA 46/2007: in the
                    Court of Appeal’s view, the word “falsely” connoted a
                    deliberate lie or deception in order to cheat SICC (see Kay
                        Swee Pin v SICC (CA) at [59]). Commenting on the essence of the
                    Charge, the Court of Appeal said at [53]:
The Charge was that in 1992, [KSP] had falsely declared NKY as her spouse
                        so as to enable him to make use of the Club’s facilities. In the
                        context of the Charge, the word “falsely” implied that [KSP]
                        had made an untrue statement in order to cheat or deceive the Club into
                        allowing NKY to use the facilities of the Club. It implied that when she filled in the name of NKY as her spouse on
                        her application form in 1992, she knew that it
                        was a false statement and that she made it deliberately so that NKY could use the facilities of the
                        Club. [emphasis added]
48     Mr Almenoar complains that despite this
                    clear “finding” on the meaning of the words used in the Charge,
                    the defendants have still chosen to submit that the words in the Notice do not
                    in their natural and ordinary meaning “[connote] that she cheated or was
                    a cheat”.[note: 15]
49     In response, the defendants assert that
                    Mr Almenoar’s argument is specious and not convincing. They contend
                    that in the earlier judicial review proceedings (which was not an action in
                    defamation), the Court of Appeal interpreted the essence of the Charge in the
                    light of the issues raised in those proceedings and considered that an implied
                        mens rea element, (ie, an intention to cheat or deceive) arose out of the Charge.
                    In the defendants’ view, it does not follow that the Court of
                    Appeal’s interpretation of the Charge in the judicial review proceedings
                    necessarily accords with the objective meaning which the Notice would have
                    conveyed to the hypothetical reasonable reader who is a fair-minded person. In
                    any case, Mr Ang concludes that, if the court finds that the imputed
                    meanings to the words in the Notice are defamatory, the sting of the libel is
                    that KSP had made a declaration knowing that it was false and/or was dishonest
                    in this regard. According to Mr Ang, the sting is substantially true on the
                        facts.[note: 16]
50     Adopting the legal principles and the approach
                    set out above, the Notice is capable of bearing the meaning attributed to it in
                    meaning (4) in so far as it alleges dishonest conduct. The
                        Cambridge International Dictionary of English (London: Cambridge
                    University Press, 1995) at p 221 defines a “cheat” as
                    “a person who behaves in a dishonest way”. The Notice sets out in
                    terms the basis on which the Club found that KSP had made a declaration which
                    was false – namely, she married NKY in Las Vegas on 24 August 2005
                    and not earlier. Based on the Notice, KSP had inexcusably made a false
                    declaration, and the hypothetical reasonable reader would understand that, in
                    effect, KSP’s conduct could fairly be described as cheating and was
                    dishonest.
51     However, I agree with Mr Ang that meaning
                    (5) is a product of an over-elaborate analysis of the words complained of. A
                    hypothetical reasonable reader would not have understood the words to allege
                    fraud or to allege that KSP had committed fraud in making the false declaration.
                    The falsehood was in respect of KSP’s marital status in 1992, in that KSP
                    named NKY as her spouse whereas her marriage to NKY was in fact solemnised and
                    registered only on 24 August 2005 (“Situation (1)”). We are
                    here concerned with Situation (1). In respect of meaning (5), KSP’s state
                    of mind at the time she filled in the application form needs to be ascertained
                    in order to prove fraud, which usually connotes an intent to deceive someone
                    like the Club. The words complained of in themselves do not say in terms or
                    suggest that KSP made the false declaration “at the time of filing of the
                    application form”, which is the relevant date. In context, the phrase
                    “since September 1992” is capable of being understood to refer to
                    the length of time for which NKY made use of the Club’s facilities; it is
                    not referable to the point in time when KSP made the false declaration. I agree
                    with Mr Ang that it is not possible to attribute meaning (5) to the Notice
                    either by the plain words of the Notice or inferentially.
52     In my judgment, the sting is not so much in
                    the words themselves as in what the hypothetical reasonable reader would infer
                    to be KSP’s dishonest conduct based on the facts as set out in the Notice
                    and the premise of the Notice, which is that KSP had inexcusably made a false
                    declaration. In effect, KSP’s improper conduct could fairly be described
                    as cheating and was dishonest. The Club accepted NKY as a spousal member. Her
                    dishonest conduct was an act prejudicial to the interest of the
                Club.
53     The Notice is therefore, and I so find,
                    libellous. The imputation of KSP’s dishonest conduct in connection with
                    NKY’s use of the Club’s facilities for 14 years as a spousal member
                    before KSP’s marriage to NKY was registered on 24 August 2005 is
                    defamatory as it is enough to induce an ill opinion of KSP in the mind of the
                    hypothetical reasonable reader of the Notice and to cause KSP to be shunned or
                    avoided as a result of these words.
Issue 3: Whether the defence of justification is available to the
                defendants
The legal principles
54     The legal principles in this area of the law
                    are well settled. The defendant who relies on the defence of justification must
                    plead precisely the meaning which he seeks to justify. As Court of Appeal stated
                    in Aaron Anne Joseph v Cheong Yip Seng [1996]
                    1 SLR(R) 258 (“Aaron v Cheong Yip
                        Seng”) at [68]:
On this issue [of justification] it is necessary to consider first what
                        precisely the [defendants] sought to justify. The law on
                            this point is now quite clear. Where a defendant in a defamation action
                            pleads justification, he must do so in such a way as to inform the
                            plaintiff and the court precisely what meaning or meanings he seeks to
                            justify: see Lucas-Box v News Group
                            Newspapers Ltd [1986] 1 WLR 147, at 153; Viscount De L'Isle v Times Newspaper Ltd [1988] 1 WLR 49, at
                        60 and Prager v Times Newspapers Ltd [1988] 1
                        WLR 77, at 86. All these three cases were decided by the English Court of
                        Appeal and the relevant passages of the judgments of various members of the
                        court were set out and commented on in Lee Kuan Yew v
                            Davies Derek Gwyn [1989] 2 SLR(R) 544 at [45] to
                        [48], and it is unnecessary to repeat them here. ... [emphasis added]
55     To succeed in a plea of justification, the
                    defendant need only prove that the substance or gist of the offending words (as
                    opposed to those parts of the offending words which do not add to the sting of
                    the alleged defamation) is true (see Review Publishing v Lee
                        Hsien Loong (CA) at [134] and Gatley on Libel
                        and Slander (Sweet & Maxwell, 11th
                    Ed, 2008) at para 11.9).
56     If the defendant seeks to justify a defamatory
                    meaning different from the meaning propounded by
                    the plaintiff, he must plead clearly the different meaning which he seeks to
                    justify (see Evans on Defamation in Singapore and
                        Malaysia (LexisNexis, 3rd Ed, 2008) at p 96):
Obviously, a defendant to a defamation action is not obliged to ascribe a
                        meaning to the words in issue, for ... the plaintiff must establish the
                        defamatory meaning of the words. However, if a defendant pleads
                        justification, then he must show in his pleadings the meaning which he seeks
                        to justify. The defendant is obliged to plead justification in a way which
                        makes it clear [what] the meaning [which] he seeks to justify [is].
                            In situations where the defendant puts forth a
                            defamatory meaning different from that pleaded by the plaintiff, and
                            which he seeks to justify, he must clearly and unequivocally plead the
                            meaning which he seeks to justify.
[emphasis added]
Justification: the issue to be determined
57     When deciding the issue of justification, I
                    have to decide whether a sufficient proportion of the allegations made in the
                    Notice were factually correct. The sting of the libel was the imputation of
                    KSP’s dishonest conduct. So the question which I have to decide is whether
                    the defendants made good on a balance of probabilities the sting of the libel is
                    substantially true. The defendants do not need to prove each and every word is
                    true. The burden is upon the defendants although the defendants are entitled to
                    rely on s 8 of the Defamation Act (Cap 75, Rev Ed 1985) (“the
                    Act”) which provides that the failure of a defendant to prove the truth
                    of every imputation against the plaintiff will not be fatal to the plea of
                    justification if the imputations not proved to be true do not materially injure
                    the plaintiff’s reputation when regard is had to those imputations which
                    have been proved against the plaintiff.
58     The defendants submit as their fall back
                    argument that the substance or gist of the Notice in each of the defamatory
                    meanings alleged by KSP is substantially true. There are the several aspects to
                    their plea of justification and to support their claim, they raised five points,
                    namely,
(a)     The contents of the Notice were
                        factually true and accurate at the material time that it was
                        published;
(b)     KSP’s declaration of NKY as her spouse at the time of her application
                        to be a member in September 1992 was false;
(c)     KSP knew that her declaration of NKY as her
                        spouse at the time of her application to be a SICC member in September 1992
                        was false;
(d)     In
                        any event, KSP had conceded at trial that she had, in fact, not entered into
                        any customary marriage with NKY in January 1982 and, therefore, the position
                        taken by her as regards there being such a customary marriage in the
                        disciplinary proceedings as well as OS 2125/2006 and CA 46/2007 was
                        untrue;
(e)     The
                        defendants rely on section 8 of the Act and in any event, they have proven
                        the sting of the alleged libel by reasons of the above
                facts.
59     The matters upon which I have to focus are
                    those relating to KSP’s dishonest conduct. In this respect, points (b) (c)
                    and (d) are relevant and will have to be examined. It is in my view important to
                    note that if, on the evidence, dishonesty is made out from her improper conduct,
                    there still remains the question whether the false declaration was deliberate,
                    and it is usual for that element to coincide with a finding of
                    dishonesty.
(i)   
        No customary marriage in
                    1982

60     The false declaration related to KSP’s
                    marital status before the solemnisation and
                    registration of her marriage to NKY on 24 August 2005 in Las Vegas. It is
                    significant that KSP’s case before the DC was that there was no false
                    declaration in that NKY was her spouse by virtue of her customary marriage to
                    NKY which she claimed took place in Johor Bahru on 12 January
                1982.
61     I start with her email of 7 January 2006
                    to one Michelle Choy, a staff of SICC:[note: 17]
Please forward this e-mail to the GC as I will now provide some
                        information regarding my marriage.
My husband and I have been happily married for over 20 years and our
                        daughter is already 18 years old. In 1982, we married in
                            Johore Bahru where my husband lived and worked, We observed traditional and customary rites in our marriage
                            ceremony, which was witnessed by our very close friends (some of whom I
                            will ask to sumit (sic) affidavits if necessary) and relatives. As
                            traditional marriages were accepted and legal in Malaysia at that time,
                            we had done what was necessary and regarded ourselves as legally and
                            properly married. Everyone who knew us acknowledged us as
                        husband and wife and throughout our over 20 years together, no third party
                        has ever emerged to challenge the validity of our marriage.
When the club, from out the blues, asked for a copy of my marriage
                        certificate, I realised that I did not possess one as customary marriages
                        did not provide for one. As I felt it was too much hassle to explain to the
                        club, my husband and I decided to obtain one from Las Vegas as that is where
                        our second home is. Even though it is registered
                            in August 2005, it certainly does not mean that we have only been
                            recently married. We married in 1982 and only registered it in 2005
                            because the club needed something in black and white.
[emphasis added]
62     In her 8 February 2006 letter to D2 as
                    President of the Club, KSP referred to her 7 January 2006 email and
                    reminded D2:
As I have already explained in my e-mail dated Jan.7, 2005 [sic], my
                        marriage to Dato Ng Kong Yeam took place long before we formally registered
                        it in Las Vegas on Aug. 24, 2005. It was within our rights not to
                        register our marriage when we married in 1982 and we chose not to do so. A
                        piece of paper is not the only proof of a person’s marital
                        status.
After 13 years of being members of SICC, I was suddenly asked to produce a
                        copy of my marriage certificate as Mr John Lee (writing under the guise
                        of a “concerned” member) had written to the Club questioning
                        my marital status. I admitted to the GMS that I did not possess one as I was
                        married 23 years ago under traditional customs and laws. …
[emphasis added]
63     To prove that the Charge was groundless, and
                    to lend credence to her claim that she and NKY (a Malaysian) went through a
                    Chinese customary marriage in 1982, KSP provided the DC with four statutory
                    declarations and a written legal opinion dated 7 January 2006 from HAA. The
                    legal opinion was tendered to prove that her customary marriage to NKY was
                    recognised as a legal marriage under Malaysian law. Of the four statutory
                    declarations, one was affirmed by NKY who confirmed that he and KSP went through
                    a customary marriage having observed Chinese customary rites.[note: 18] The other three statutory
                    declarations were from NKY’s secretary, friend and sister respectively and
                    they all confirmed knowledge of NKY’s Chinese customary marriage to KSP on
                    12 January 1982 in that they were present at the wedding where the marriage
                    between NKY and KSP was solemnised at the New Hong Kong Restaurant, Johor Bahru
                    according to Chinese customary rites.[note: 19] On the basis of their Chinese
                    customary marriage, HAA opined that such a marriage in accordance with custom
                    entered into before 1 March 1982 would be deemed to be a registered
                    marriage under Malaysian law.[note: 20] Given the strength of the evidence as
                    described, it was not surprising that the Court of Appeal in Kay Swee Pin v SICC (CA) concluded that KSP had a valid
                    explanation as to how NKY was her spouse in 1992 when the Las Vegas marriage
                    certificate showed that they were married only in 2005.
64     It is clear from the evidence that KSP was
                    saying to the DC that at the time of her application to join SICC, she was
                    validly married to NKY. This must be so, on any reasonable view, for KSP had
                    gone to great lengths to submit proof of her customary marriage and its
                    recognition as a legal marriage under Malaysian law at the time she joined the
                    Club.
65     Unfortunately for KSP, in the course of the
                    disciplinary proceedings, SICC found out that KSP was still legally married to
                    KHP on 12 January 1982. The Club wrote to KSP for information on when her
                    marriage to KHP was dissolved. No information was provided by KSP (see
                        [7] above). The Club then got hold of the
                    divorce papers filed in court. The Club learned that the divorce petition was
                    filed by KSP on 23 December 1982, the Decree Nisi granted on
                    28 November 1983 and the Decree Absolute was granted on 2 March 1984
                    (see also [8] above). We know from the facts
                    that GC directed the DC to deliberate and make its recommendation on the
                    complaint to the GC “based on the fact that Dato Ng was not [her]
                        spouse”.[note: 21]
                    Ultimately, KSP was found guilty and her membership was suspended for one year.
                    Notice of her suspension was placed on several notice boards in the clubhouses.
                    When KSP came to know of the Notice, she wrote to the GC demanding to know the
                    reason for the DC’s decision. In her letter of 25 May 2006, KSP
                    queried why the Notice only mentioned the marriage registered in 2005 and not
                    her marriage to the same man on 12 January 1982 in Johor Bahru. KSP again
                    referred to documents she submitted to the DC to prove that her marriage on
                    12 January 1982 was “proper and legal under existing Malaysian
                    marriage laws”. In challenging the Club’s ruling on the illegality
                    of her marriage in Malaysia, KSP wrote: [note: 22]
Just for the information of GC members who may have been misinformed, I
                        have NEVER been convicted by any Court in the world (Singapore included) for
                        committing bigamy. I have never even been charged by anyone for committing
                        bigamy.
66     SICC replied on 7 June 2006 and after
                    setting out the facts and documents produced, went on to state:[note: 23]
(iii)  If the Chinese customary marriage was valid on
                        12 January 1982 as suggested by you, it would appear that you have 2
                        valid subsisting marriages at the same time.
…
Based on the above, GC disagrees with you that it should accept the fact
                        that there can be 2 valid marriages existing at the same [time] ..or that it
                        ought to accept your view as insisted by you that your customary marriage is
                        validly solemnised while the other marriage was still in existence.
67     In response to her suspension as a member for
                    one year, KSP filed OS 2125/2006 and in her first affidavit of 14 November
                    2006 (“the OS affidavit”), she visibly backtracked and did an
                    about turn, departing radically from the position taken in her communications to
                    SICC in January and February 2006 and the statutory declarations submitted
                    to the DC. On oath, KSP admitted in the OS affidavit that there was no marriage to NKY on 12 January 1982 because of a
                    legal impediment in her way: she was not free to marry NKY as she was still
                    married to KHP and for that reason did not go
                    through with the planned customary marriage after all. The relevant paras of the
                    OS affidavit read as follows:[note: 24]
23. In Jan. 1979, I separated from my former husband, Mr Koh Ho Ping
                        after only one year and seven months of marriage. During that time, we had a
                        daughter, who was born in June 1978.
24. Sometime in mid 1979, I met Mr Ng Kong Yeam.
25. In early 1980, Mr Koh Ho Ping and I decided to divorce.
                        Subsequently, we engaged lawyers to handle the matter.
26. Mr Ng Kong Yeam and I decided to get married and after
                        consultation with our respective parents, we decided to have a customary
                        marriage on Jan. 12, 1982 in Mr Ng’s domicile (Johore
                        Bahru).
27. As I was informed by my lawyers that my divorce had been filed
                        sometime in 1981 and since my former husband and I agreed that the divorce
                        would be uncontested, I thought that by the time of my
                            second marriage, my divorce would have been finalised. Hence, the Jan
                            12, 1982 date was set.
28. However, there was an unexpected delay in the
                            courts and my divorce hearing could not be fixed before the date of my
                            intended marriage. Nevertheless, as all the preparations have been made,
                            Mr Ng and I decided to hold the ceremonial dinner for the sake of
                            our parents.
29. My divorce from my former husband was finally granted in Dec.
                        1983.
30. After the decree nisi was made absolute, Mr Ng
                            and I contemplated as to whether we should host another dinner to
                            formalise our marriage. We decided against it as we felt it was
                            unnecessary to repeat what we have already done.
68     In cross-examination by Mr Ang, KSP
                    confirmed that there was no wedding on
                    12 January 1982, and after her divorce in 1984, she and NKY did not go through any kind of ceremony or registration of
                    any marriage until 24 August 2005 when they solemnised and registered their
                    marriage in Las Vegas.[note: 25] I am
                    mindful that her admission on affidavit was on 14 November 2006 well
                        before the March 2008 complaint lodged by
                    JL to the Registry of Marriages of her bigamous marriage to NKY and before the police started investigating into the
                    complaint of bigamy.[note: 26]
69     At the trial of the libel action, KSP admitted
                    in cross-examination that: (a) there was no
                    customary marriage on 12 January 1982 or at anytime thereafter until KSP
                    and NKY registered their marriage on 24 August 2005.; and (b) at the time
                    she filled up the application form to join the Club in 1992 and declared NKY as
                    her spouse, she knew that she was not legally married to NKY and he was not
                    legally her spouse;[note: 27] and (c)
                    KSP believed that at the time she joined the Club, NKY was married to someone
                    else [ie, Madam Ling], but she was NKY’s
                    second wife, albeit “not legally his second wife”.[note: 28]
70     In the light of her own testimony in the OS
                    affidavit and during cross-examination by Mr Ang, the obvious conclusion is
                    that she must have lied to the DC that she and NKY were married in accordance
                    with Chinese custom on 12 January 1982 and that such a marriage was legal
                    under Malaysia law as it was entered into prior to 1 March 1982. In short,
                    KSP advanced a fundamentally dishonest case before the DC. It was based on a lie
                    from the outset and that attempted cover-up of her marital status was partly
                    exposed when the Club found out that she was still married to KHP on
                    12 January 1982.
71     It is now a convenient juncture to set out her
                    answers to Mr Ang’s questions in cross-examination on points (a) and
                    (b) (see [69] above). To repeat, the truth
                    of the matter as admitted by KSP on oath is that KSP and NKY did not marry each
                    other under Chinese custom on 12 January 1982 or at any time thereafter
                    until 24 August 2005 when they solemnised and registered their marriage in
                    Las Vegas. At the time she filled up the application form to join the Club in
                    1992 and her decision to declare NKY as her spouse, she was aware that NKY was
                    not legally her spouse: [note: 29]

Q.
And as an educate---as an educated and intelligent woman, you knew
                                all along even in 1992---I will go back further to 1982, that if you
                                are married to someone, you cannot enter into another marriage with
                                another person, correct?


A.
That is correct.
Q.Right. Even as of 1982, you knew
                        that?
A.Yes.
Q.All right. And you knew that even as of 1982, if
                            you---if you were married to let’s say person A, and during the
                            course of the marriage, you try to enter into another marriage with
                            person B, you knew in 1982 that that would be an offence,
                            correct?
A.Yes.
…

Q.
Right. So would you agree with me, and I don’t think there is
                                any doubt, you could not possibly have legally married Dato Ng in
                                1982, correct?


A.
Yes, and I have admitted that many, many times
                            already.
Q.And you would agree with me that after your divorce
                            petition was made---your divorce was made in 1984, you and Dato Ng did
                            not go through any kind of ceremony or registration of any
                            marriage.
ANo.
Q.Right. After 1984.
A.No.
Q.Right. And you only did so---so therefore you would
                            agree with me that based on your answers that you and Dato Ng were never
                            legally married.
A.Yes.
…
Q.And you only became legally married based on your
                            definition in August of 2005---
A.Yes.
Q.---when you all registered your marriage
                            in---
A.Yes.
Q.---in Las Vegas Nevada. Correct?
A.Yes.

Q.
So
                                in 1992, when you declared Dato Ng to be your husband or your spouse
                                in your application to join the club, you knew that he was not
                                legally your husband. Correct?


A.
Yes.
[emphasis in bold added]
72     By the time of the libel trial, KSP appeared
                    to be under police investigations for bigamy. In cross-examination, she was
                    asked questioned about the bigamy investigations and her attempts to enlist the
                    help of one Mr Ee Chin Seng (“ECS”), a close acquaintance of
                    NKY, to come forward to tell the police that he was not aware of any customary
                    marriage between NKY and KSP so that his statement would resolve the complaint
                    of bigamy against KSP. In that connection, KSP emailed ECS on 4 April 2008
                    and 19 April 2008.[note: 30]
73     At the trial, KSP explained that with
                    ECS’s testimony, the police would in all likelihood bring to an end the
                    bigamy investigations against her.[note: 31] Initially, KSP was evasive when questioned
                    whether she had informed the police that she had entered into a customary
                    marriage with NKY in January 1982.[note: 32] Subsequently, KSP conceded that she had
                    indeed informed the police that she had not
                    entered into a customary marriage with NKY in January 1982. Instead, she
                    clarified that what she had informed the police was that both NKY and herself
                    held a “dinner” on 12 January 1982 to merely acknowledge and
                    “celebrate a commitment to each other” and intention then was that
                    they would get married in the future. KSP explained that the reason why they did
                    not undergo any customary marriage then was because she knew at that time she
                    was still married to KHP. The relevant excerpts of KSP’s answers in
                    cross-examination are set out below:[note: 33]
Q.Just listen to my question. Did
                                you tell the police that you did not enter into a customary marriage
                                in January 1982? Forget about after 84,
                        right?

A.

Yes.

Q.

Did you tell the police that you did not enter into a customary
                                marriage on [12] January 1982?


A.

I
                                told the police that I had this dinner, definitely I admitted
                                that.

Q.

Did you tell the police that it was not a marriage
                                dinner?


A.

Yes, I told the police that we did not---we didn’t have the
                                normal traditional, you know, like tea offering ceremony, that kind
                                of thing, yes. I did say that.

…


Q.

You tried to enter into a customary marriage in January
                                82.

A.

…I just told the police I had this dinner. The original
                                intention was to announce that we were going to get married, but
                                then because of this legal impediment, we had to, you know, we just
                                had to skip all the formalities, but the dinner … sorry the
                                dinner was held nevertheless.

…


Q.

… Is it your position that there was no customary marriage
                                in 1982?


A.

Yes, it is strictly speaking that, you know, you need to go all
                                through all these rites, I did not go through. So if that constitute
                                there is no customary marriage, then there is no customary
                                marriage.
…
Q.But it never took place, the customary marriage, am
                            I right?
A.But in---in view of the legal
                                impediment, we---we---at least I felt that I took---what should I
                                say, I took care, you know, not to be---run foul of law, so to
                                speak, but in my mind, there was the intention and we had
                            it, because it’s meant to be, like I said, an
                                announcement of a commitment to this person, that yes, we intend
                                to---we intend be married, but because of the legal
                            impediment, we couldn’t do it, but that dinner was the intention
                            was---was known, and thereafter, I mean I---I just assumed that---or I
                            deemed myself married to this man and has been ever since.

Q.

So
                                on 12th of January 82, the day of the dinner, what you are saying is
                                that while you intended to go through it, a customary marriage, it
                                did not go through at the end because you knew on 12th January 1982,
                                that there was an impediment to you getting married. Is that
                                right?


A.

Yes.

…


Q.

So---and therefore when you had a dinner, you knew it was not a
                                customary marriage because there was an impediment stopping you from
                                getting married, correct?


A.

Yes.

Q.

Correct?


A.

Yes.

Q.

In
                                1982.

A.

Yes.

Q.

You were very clear about that.

A.

Yes.
[emphasis in bold added]
(ii)   
        Conduct to be
                inferred

74     Naturally, the contradictory position taken by
                    KSP as regards her alleged customary marriage to NKY in 1982 gives rise to
                    serious doubts as to her credibility and reliability as a witness. The radical
                    change in her story has undermined and removed the “credible
                    explanation” the Court of Appeal had identified as having been proffered
                    by KSP for declaring NKY as her spouse in the application form in 1992
                        (ie, she was married to NKY according to
                    Chinese custom and deemed a legal marriage under Malaysian law). The declaration
                    in the application form would be untrue and false if the word
                    “spouse” in the application form has a legal connotation, and this
                    was so if KSP was aware of this at the material time.
75     Despite her barefaced inconsistencies, KSP
                    tried to argue before me that, at the time of her application to be a SICC
                    member, she had understood the meaning of the word “spouse” to
                    refer to someone whom she shared a spousal relationship with and not necessarily
                    someone to whom she was married. Her understanding was that one could declare
                    someone as a spousal member to use the Club’s facilities even though that
                    person was not a spouse at law. KSP claimed that it was her understanding that a
                    member could even register his girlfriend as a spouse member at SICC as long as
                    he believed that his girlfriend was like a wife to him.
76     Furthermore, KSP said she believed NKY was her
                    spouse and that it was a mistake to claim that
                    their relationship was a legal marriage before the DC. The fact of the matter,
                    however, is that there was no genuine mistake: she knew all along that the word
                    “spouse” meant one’s lawful husband or wife; in truth and in
                    fact, she was conscious at the time she applied to join the Club in 1992 that
                    she was not married to NKY; and she was conscious
                    he was not her spouse in the legal sense. This is
                    what she said in answer to Mr Ang’s questions: [note: 34]
Q.Even though he’s not your spouse, you can
                            declare him as a spouse to use the club’s facilities? Even though
                            he’s not legally your spouse, you can declare him.
A.Even though he’s not legally a spouse, yes,
                            yes, yes. Definitely that was my belief.
…
Q.And if you honestly believed that, Ms Kay, if
                            you honestly believed that, when the club decided to investigate you in
                            2005 and 2006 as to whether or not you had falsely declared him as your
                            spouse, you would have just told the truth, “I regarded him as my
                            spouse even though I did not legally marry him in January 82. I regarded
                            him as my spouse.” Instead you went through great lengths to put
                            in evidence to show that he was legally married to you,
                        correct?
…
Q.You went through great length in the disciplinary
                            committee proceedings to show that he was legally married to you. You
                            put in Malaysian lawyers, you put in stat docs.
A.That’s why I said I believed he was married
                            to me. If the word “legally” is---is should not be there,
                            then I made a mistake. But---
Q.You put there, Ms Kay.
A.Yes, I put it there, that’s why I said if I
                            put it there, and I made a mistake. But the fact is I considered him to
                            be my spouse.
Q.So your evidence, Ms Kay, is that
                            doesn’t really matter when you joined SICC. Doesn’t really
                            matter whether he’s your spouse, as long as the person considered
                            the person to be the spouse, that’s okay.
A.No, I considered him to be my spouse, that’s
                            why I put him as my spouse. I didn’t put anyone else but
                            him.
Q.So if there is a male club member who has a
                            girlfriend and in his mind he believed that this woman who he---was his
                            girlfriend only is his because they have a spousal type relationship, he
                            can register her as a spouse member.
A.I am sure the club has registered many such
                            members. That is –
…
Q.KSP, your case is that you could register
                            Mr Ng as a spouse because as far as you are concerned, he is your
                            spouse, whether you are legally married to him or not,
                        correct?
A.Yes.
Q.So my question is, if what you say is even logical,
                            any club member who has a girlfriend and he honestly believed that as
                            far as he was concerned, “She’s like my wife”, he
                            can register as a spouse.
A.I am sure.
…
Q.So that is perfectly okay, as far as you are
                            concerned?
A.Yes.
…
Q.I see. That is your honest evidence?
A.Yes.

Q.
I
                                suggest to you, Ms Kay, that that cannot be your honest
                                evidence because if that was the case, you would have just told the
                                club, when you were investigated as to whether or not you had made a
                                false declaration, you would have just told the club,
                                “He’s not legally married to me but this is what
                                happened”. Instead, you went to great length to show that he
                                was legally married to you. Your true understanding therefore, was
                                that “spouse” literally means you are validly---you
                                are husband or wife under a valid marriage and you knew
                                that.

A.
Mr Ang, I cannot agree with you more, that is what I should
                                have done. That is what I really should have done. But
                                ---

[emphasis in bold added]
77     Mr Ang’s observation, which I agree
                    with, is that the only logical reason why KSP had furnished the legal opinion
                    and statutory declarations to the DC was because she accepted and knew that the
                    word “spouse” in the application form meant one’s husband or
                    wife under a valid marriage, and, logically and on any reasonable view, that
                    must have been her understanding way back in 1992 when she declared NKY as her
                    spouse in the application form. As pointed out in [68] and [69] above, KSP has
                    admitted that there was no marriage to NKY according to Chinese custom on
                    12 January 1982, and there was also no marriage to NKY in 1992. Notably,
                    KSP admitted that NKY was still married to someone else (ie, Madam Ling) at the time she joined the Club in 1992, and
                    that she was his “second wife”, albeit not legally so:[note: 35]
Q.Now, and you believed that you were the second wife
                            to Dato Ng.
A.Yes.
Q.And---so let me try to understand this,
                            Ms Kay. Your evidence in a nutshell is that you believed that at
                            the time you joined the club that Dato Ng was married to someone else
                                [ie Madam Ling], but you were his
                            second wife.
A.Yes.
Q.But not legally, not legally his second wife. Is
                            that your evidence?
A.Yes.
Earlier, KSP had agreed that in 1992 when she declared NKY as her
                    spouse in the application form, she was aware that he was not legally her
                    husband. She said in answer to Mr Ang’s questions:[note: 36]
Q:So in 1992, when you declared Dato Ng to be your
                            husband or your spouse in your application to join the club, you knew
                            that he was not legally your husband. Correct?
A:Yes.
Q:So to say that he was your husband, in 1992, when
                            you joined the club, that’s actually false, right?
A:He was the spouse…as far as…in my
                            mind, he was my spouse.
78     In my view, KSP is not a reliable witness, and
                    I treat her evidence with caution. Her case in OS 2125/2006 and CA 46/2007 was
                    that if the Club had asked her in 1992 to submit a marriage certificate before
                    NKY could be registered as a spousal member, the couple could easily have
                    complied by registering their marriage then as both were free to do so (see
                        Kay Swee Pin v SICC (CA) at [57]). We now know
                    from her evidence in cross-examination that there is no truth in the case
                    previously advanced by KSP: even though her divorce from KHP was finalised by
                    1984, NKY was, nevertheless, still married to Madam Ling in 1992, and,
                    accordingly KSP could not have submitted a marriage certificate if the Club had
                    insisted on one in 1992. It was KSP’s case, gathered from the transcripts
                    of the proceedings before Tay Yong Kwang J, that she discussed her marital
                    status with her sister when she came to the part of the application form where
                    KSP was required to put down the name of “spouse to be registered”
                    as user of the Club facilities. Even if KSP, for the sake of argument, had
                    doubts as to whether she could name NKY as her spouse in the application form
                    (and I have already found against KSP on that point in so far as KSP knew at
                    that time that “spouse” meant a spouse under a valid marriage),
                    the onus, in my view, was on KSP to clarify with the Club its position since she
                    was required to sign a declaration that “all the information given [in
                    the form] is true”. It was obvious from her submissions before Tay J
                    that the approach which she decided to take was to name NKY as her spouse, and
                    should the Club query her, she would then decide whether to proceed with the
                    application or withdraw her nomination of NKY as a spousal member, or register
                    her marriage to NKY (“the approach”). I make two points. First, it
                    is telling from the three options that she was aware that the term
                    “spouse” in the application form was referable to the
                    applicant’s husband or wife under a valid marriage. Second, KSP’s
                    decision to chance it, so to speak, by naming NKY as her spouse. From what she
                    said, it appears quite clear to me that she considered and assessed the risk of
                    telling a lie in her application form, and decided to take that risk in the
                    knowledge of the approach which she had decided she would adopt towards the
                    Club’s reaction as discussed with her sister.
79     In my view, KSP was aware, and I so find, that
                    at the time she applied to join the Club, she appreciated that the term
                    “spouse” in the application form did not mean the
                    applicant’s companion, partner or escort but the applicant’s husband
                    or wife under a valid marriage. I also find that KSP’s declaration of NKY
                    as her spouse in the application form for the purpose of registering him as a
                    user of the Club’s facilities was deliberate and false. It was contrary to
                    the undertaking she gave in the application form that all information provided
                    are true. She could have filled up the form without naming NKY as her spouse but
                    she did not – she knowingly made the declaration and submitted the form
                    with the false information to the Club. In the circumstances, at the risk of
                    repetition, her dishonest conduct lay in her declaring NKY as her spouse on her
                    membership application form even though she knew at that time that she was not
                    married to NKY, coupled with her decision to take the risk of making that false
                    declaration after discussing with her sister how she should respond if the Club
                    were to ask for documentary proof of her marriage to NKY. As it turned out,
                    there was no immediate query from the Club - the lie was found out 13 years
                    later when the Club charged her. From that perspective, her conduct was
                    dishonest. In meaning, her conduct could fairly be described as cheating and was
                    dishonest. Therefore, the sting of the Notice is substantially true, and the
                    defence of justification is made out.
Section 8 of the Defamation Act
80     I have already concluded that the plea of
                    justification succeeds in relation to the meanings that I have found. In
                    addition, I have not found in favour of KSP on meaning (5). In the
                    circumstances, there is no need for the defendants to rely on s 8 of the
                    Act.
Other matters
81     For completeness, I now turn to the remaining
                    aspects of the defendants’ plea of justification, namely, the contents of
                    the Notice were factually true and accurate at the material time.
82     It is not disputed that the Notice
                    substantially reproduced the Charge that was preferred against KSP in the SICC
                    disciplinary proceedings, and that it accurately summarised the outcome of the
                    disciplinary proceedings at the time of its publication. At the time the Notice
                    was put up on the notice boards, KSP had in fact been found guilty of the Charge
                    and SICC had, inter alia, suspended KSP’s
                    membership for a period of one year as stated in the Notice. For that reason,
                    the contents of the Notice, so the defendants argue, were factually true and
                    accurate at the material time it was published. On my part, for the reasons
                    below, this part of the defendants’ plea of justification is
                    misconceived.
83     The defendants’ argument ignored the
                    fact that the Notice was inherently defective because the underlying Charge was
                    bad, and held to be so on judicial review by the Court of Appeal. As stated, the
                    suspension order against KSP was declared to be invalid on the three broad
                    grounds set out at [16] –
                    [18] above. The defendants cannot argue that
                    the contents of the Notice were factually true and accurate at the time it was
                    published. The fact remains that (a) the Charge itself was illegal at the
                    outset; and (b) the process was found wanting on grounds of breaches of natural
                    justice as well as procedural impropriety in the conduct of the disciplinary
                    proceedings. This meant that the Notice could and should never have been
                    published in the first place. All that the defendant is able to say is that as a
                    matter of SICC’s records: (a) SICC brought disciplinary proceedings under
                    Rule 34 on the Charge against KSP; (b) the Club found KSP in breach of
                    Rule 34; (c) the Club, amongst other things, suspended her membership for
                    one year; and (d) notice of KSP’s suspension was given to members of the
                    Club. Based on all these facts in evidence, the defendants cannot go beyond
                    asserting that the Notice is substantially true in so far as its repeats the
                    Club’s conclusion that KSP was guilty
                        but it is not
                    substantially true that KSP was actually
                    guilty.
84     Before moving to the next point, I should
                    comment on the legality of the Charge. The Court of Appeal concluded in
                        Kay Swee Pin v SICC (CA) at [81] that the
                    Charge was illegal as KSP was not a member of the Club at the material time and
                    could not have been charged for cheating the Club under Rule 34(a).
                    However, the Court of Appeal pointed out at [81] that the outcome would be
                    different
… if there is evidence to show that [KSP] was aware in 1992, or at
                        any time thereafter up to the time she was asked to furnish her marriage
                        certificate, that her customary marriage to NKY was invalid, but did not
                        inform the Club. In our view, an “act” for the purposes of r
                        34(a) would include a deliberate omission to disclose an act prejudicial to
                        the interests of the Club.
We now know from KSP’s admission in the witness box that KSP and
                    NKY did not undergo any customary marriage on 12 January 1982 as previously
                    contended, and she did not inform the Club of this fact. If these factors had
                    been made known to the Court of Appeal in CA 46/2007, its conclusion as to the
                    legality of the Charge would have been different.
Conclusion on the justification issue
85     For the reasons given, the plea of
                    justification succeeds in relation to the meanings that I have
                found.
Issue 4: Whether the defendants’ plea of qualified privilege
                can succeed
86     For completeness, I now consider the defence
                    of qualified privilege should a higher tribunal take a different view on the
                    applicability of the defence of justification. For present purposes, the
                    discussions here assume that the words written in the Notice are untrue. The
                    basis of the defendants’ claim to privilege is set out in para 13 of
                    the Defence (Amendment No 1).
The legal principles
87     The legal position is summarised in Halsbury’s at para 240.155 as follows:
The defence of qualified privilege attaches to the occasion which the
                        words are published, rather than to the words themselves. It would be
                        contrary to the purposes for which qualified privilege exists if the law
                        applied an objective test of relevance to every part of the defamatory
                        matter, as a precondition of the existence of privilege. Words wholly
                        unconnected with and irrelevant to the occasion may not be privileged; but
                        generally, irrelevant and unnecessary words having some relation to the
                        occasion will be within the privilege but will constitute evidence of
                        express malice.
Paragraph 240.155 quoted above was recently approved and followed
                    by the Court of Appeal in Lim Eng Hock Peter v Lin Jian
                        Wei [2009] SGCA 48 at [34] (“Peter Lim (CA)).
88     The determination of whether an occasion is
                    one of qualified privilege is one of law. An occasion which may warrant the
                    invocation of the defence of qualified privilege is where the person who makes a
                    communication has an interest or a duty, legal, social or moral, to make it to
                    the person to whom it is made, and the person to whom it is so made has a
                    corresponding interest or duty to receive it (see Adam v
                        Ward [1917] AC 309 at 334, followed in Yeo Nai Meng v Ei-Nets Ltd [2004] 1 SLR(R) 73;
                        Halsbury’s at
                para 240.152).
89     The burden of proof is on the defendant to
                    prove that the occasion of publication is one of qualified privilege (see
                        Maidstone Pte Ltd v Takenaka Corp [1992]
                    1 SLR(R) 752 at [32]). However, the protection afforded by qualified
                    privilege will be lost if the publication is made with malice. The burden of
                    proof is on the plaintiff to show that the defendant, in publishing the words
                    complained of, was actuated by malice.
Were the words complained of by KSP published on an occasion of
                qualified privilege?
90     The authorities show that communications and
                    adjudications between members of an association and a domestic tribunal within
                    the association have long been held to be privileged (see Gatley at para 14.45).
91     In Thompson v New South
                        Wales Branch of the British Medical Association
                    [1924] AC 764, the articles of association of the respondent provided
                    for the expulsion of a member by a resolution of its council at a general
                    meeting. A resolution expelling the appellant from membership was duly carried
                    by the council and confirmed by a general meeting. The resolution was then
                    subsequently communicated in writing by the secretary to the other members of
                    the association. The appellant brought an action against the respondent for
                    damages alleging, inter alia, defamation in
                    respect of a circular sent out by the respondent, containing the terms of the
                    resolution passed by the council.
92     The Privy Council held that the occasion of
                    the publication of the resolution was privileged and that the appellant’s
                    action in defamation failed. In this regard, the Privy Council held at
                    p 782:
It is quite obvious, however, that the publications relied on in these
                        three counts were made on privileged occasions. The association had
                        obviously an interest and a moral, if not legal, duty to communicate to its
                        members the information that the resolution to expel the appellant had been
                        carried, and the members had a corresponding interest in receiving the
                        information.
93     Likewise, the Notice in the present action is
                    an example of a communication between a domestic tribunal of an association (the
                    GC of SICC) and its members of the outcome of disciplinary proceedings involving
                    a member. The defendants had a duty to communicate to the SICC members the
                    information set out in the Notice. The SICC members also have a corresponding
                    interest in the outcome of the concluded disciplinary cases involving other SICC
                    members.
94     On the evidence, the defence of qualified
                    privilege is not lost by the fact that persons other than SICC members could
                    have seen the notice on SICC’s premises. As the editors of Gatley clarified at para 14.66:
[It is] a general rule that the defendant should be careful to make his
                        communication only to those persons who have a legitimate interest or duty
                        in relation to the subject matter…However, if
                            strict reciprocity were essential, society and its business could not be
                            conducted, as others without a direct interest in the
                        communication are regularly employed in helping to make the communication
                        and it would be impossible to communicate if every defamatory communication
                        had to be confined to those with a direct duty or interest in relation to
                        its subject-matter. For these reasons, communications to
                            persons without such an interest or duty are nevertheless privileged if
                            they are published reasonably, in the ordinary course of business, and
                            no more widely than is required for the effective making of the
                            communication, and if they would be privileged but for such incidental
                            publication.
95     In this case, the Notice was placed on three
                    notice boards in SICC’s clubhouses. I agree with the defendants that the
                    notice boards were a practical and convenient mode of communication between SICC
                    and its members. It is SICC’s standard operating practice to put up
                    notices, such as the Notice in question here, on its notice boards to summarily
                    inform SICC members of the outcome of concluded disciplinary hearings involving
                    SICC members. According to Edwin Lee, [D6] who is president of Chinese Swimming
                    Club, the practice of putting up notices is common and is also adopted in the
                    Chinese Swimming Club.
96     In my view, the posting of the Notice was no
                    different from past cases involving SICC members and there is no basis for
                    saying that the publication of the Notice was used for an improper purpose. In
                    the circumstances I have described, the publication of the Notice was, and I so
                    find, on an occasion of qualified privilege. The fact that the Notice may have
                    been seen by visitors other than SICC members on SICC’s clubhouses does
                    not defeat the defence of qualified privilege as the mode of publication of the
                    Notice was on the notice boards within the clubhouses. It was practical,
                    reasonable, and did not go beyond the exigency of the occasion.
Did the defendants act with malice in publishing the
                notice?
97     As stated, the burden of proof of proving
                    malice rests on KSP. Honesty and good faith on the part of the defendants are
                    presumed at law and KSP has the burden of rebutting it. Gatley states at para 35.27:
A defendant need not give any evidence that the words
                        complained of were published “bona fide and without prejudice”
                        for so much is presumed in his favour if the occasion is privileged.
“It is clear that it is not for the defendant to prove that he
                            was acting from a sense of duty, but for the
                                plaintiff to satisfy the jury [or Judge in the context of
                            Singapore] that the defendant was acting from some
                                other motive than a sense of duty.”
[emphasis added]
98     The law on malice in the context of qualified
                    privilege has been clearly set out in the leading case of Horrocks v Lowe [1975] AC 135 (“Horrocks”), which has been adopted and cited with
                    approval by the Singapore courts on numerous occasions. In ABZ v Singapore Press Holdings Ltd [2009]
                    4 SLR(R) 648, the High Court summarised the principles stated in
                        Horrocks at [63]:
(a)    A defendant is entitled to the defence of
                            qualified privilege unless some dominant and improper
                                motive on its part is proved. In general, motive here equates to the use of a privileged
                            occasion for some purpose other than that for which the privilege is
                            accorded by law. It bears emphasising that in order for the defence to
                            be defeated, the desire to injure the plaintiff must be the dominant motive for the defamatory
                            publication.
(b)    As long as the defendant is acting in accordance
                            with a sense of duty or in bona fide
                            protection of his own legitimate interests, its knowledge that a
                            statement will injure the plaintiff does not destroy the defence.
(c)    If the defendant publishes untrue defamatory
                            statements recklessly, ie, without considering or caring whether these
                            statements are true or not, it will be deemed to have known that they
                            are false. In this regard, carelessness, impulsiveness or even
                            irrationality in arriving at a belief that the statements are true is
                                not to be equated with
                            recklessness.
(d)    Notwithstanding a positive belief in the truth of
                            what is published, the defence will be defeated if it can be proved that
                            the defendant misused the occasion for some purpose other than that for
                            which the privilege is accorded by law.
99     With respect to D4, D5, D9, D11 and D12, it
                    was KSP’s own evidence under cross-examination at trial that they have not
                    acted with any improper motives and did not have intention to harm or injure KSP
                    in the conduct of the disciplinary proceedings against her.[note: 37] KSP’s own admissions, at the
                    very least, will clearly prevent any finding of malice as against D4, D5, D9,
                    D11 and D12. As the Court of Appeal observed (per
                        curiam) in Nirumalan K Pillay & Ors v
                        A Balakrishnan & Ors [1997] 1 SLR(R) 953 at
                    [33]:
In our opinion, where two or more persons have participated in the
                        publication of a defamatory article and all of them are sued and they rely
                        on the defence of fair comment or qualified privilege, the plaintiff, in order to defeat the defence and succeed in his claim
                            against each and every defendant must
                            prove express malice on the part of each of the defendants. If he fails to show that any one of them was
                            actuated by express malice, then the defence of that
                        defendant will succeed and he will not be
                            liable; as for the other defendants, if the plaintiff
                        succeeds in showing express malice on their part, then in the absence of any
                        other defence succeeding, they will be liable. [emphasis added]
100    
          Horrocks was
                    approved and applied in Peter Lim (CA). Applying
                    these principles to the facts of the present case, it is clear that the
                    defendants’ publication of the Notice was not actuated by malice. The evidence adduced at trial shows that
                    there was never any ill will, spite, malice and/or improper motive on the part
                    of the defendants in respect of KSP in the publication of the Notice. Moreover,
                    it is also important to note that it was only after the Court of Appeal’s
                    decision in OS 2125/2006 that the defendants found out that the decision of the
                    GC to suspend KSP’s membership was wrong. At the material time, the
                    defendants’ publication of the Notice was in accordance with its standard
                    operating practice of informing SICC members of the outcomes of disciplinary
                    hearings.
101    The fact that Notice concerned a suspension
                    order that was subsequently declared invalid by the Court of Appeal would not
                    undermine the defence of qualified privilege. Lord Diplock made clear in
                        Horrocks that the protection afforded by the
                    defence of qualified privilege would be illusory if it could be forfeited by the
                    use of inaccurate language or by slopping reasoning. The Court of Appeal’s
                    remarks in Peter Lim (CA) are apposite. Chan Sek
                    Keong CJ said at [41]:
Consistent with the value of reputation in society, it is not
                        surprising that the law does not countenance a defendant deliberately
                        publishing a defamatory statement by affording him the protection of
                        qualified privilege. The rationale underpinning the privilege is that
                        because the defendant has a moral, social or legal duty to disclose the
                        information and the recipient has an interest in receiving it, he should not
                        be penalised for making an honest mistake. This will be the case where the
                        defendant publishes statements which he genuinely believes to be true and
                        accurate. He cannot claim the protection of privilege, whatever his dominant
                        intention or motive may be, if he knows that what he has written or said was
                        untrue. As Lord Diplock said (see [36] above):
… for no sense of duty or desire to protect his own legitimate
                            interests can justify a man in telling deliberate or injurious
                            falsehoods about another, save in the exceptional case where a person
                            may be under a duty to pass on, without endorsing, defamatory reports
                            made by some other person.
102    The Court of Appeal’s criticism of the
                    GC’s irrational and illogical analysis was, inter
                        alia, on the improper procedural lapses which peppered the
                    disciplinary proceedings and the breach of natural justice (see [16]-[18]
                    above). There was, however, no suggestion of improper motives on the part of the
                    GC. The fact remains that the defendants held an honest belief in the
                    truthfulness of what they wrote in the Notice, and they have not misused the
                    occasion for any purpose other than that for which the occasion was privileged.
                    In other words, there was no improper motive in the publication of the Notice
                    (see Peter Lim (CA) at [38]). As I have stated,
                    the whole purpose of the Notice was to inform the members of the outcome of the
                    disciplinary proceedings against one of the members of the Club.
103    In the light of the overall evidence adduced
                    at trial, the evidence do not bear out KSP’s assertion that the defendants
                    were actuated by malice in the publication of the Notice. Therefore, the defence
                    of qualified privilege would have been available to the
                defendants.
Result
104    For the reasons stated, KSP’s libel
                    action fails and is dismissed with costs.
[note: 1]4AB 1504[note: 2]4AB 1434[note: 3]4AB
                                1525[note: 4]4AB
                                1528[note: 5]4AB
                                1530[note: 6]4AB 1530[note: 7]4AB 1142[note: 8][2008] SGHC 143[note: 9]Defendants’ closing submissions
                                para 72[note: 10]Defendants’ closing submissions
                            para 76[note: 11]Plaintiff’s closing submissions, paras 47 &
                                48[note: 12]Plaintiff’s closing submissions ,
                            para 56[note: 13]Plaintiff’s closing submissions,
                        para 37[note: 14]Plaintiff’s closing submissions,
                        para 41[note: 15]Plaintiff’s closing submissions,
                                para 45[note: 16]Defendants’ closing submissions,
                                para 79[note: 17]4AB
                                1506[note: 18]4AB 2038[note: 19]4AB
                                2040-2045[note: 20]4AB
                                1434[note: 21]2AB 362-363[note: 22]3AB
                                705[note: 23]3AB 706[note: 24]2AB
                                244[note: 25]Transcripts of Evidence
                                10 November 2009, pp 40 & 46[note: 26]Defendants’ closing submissions,
                                para 49[note: 27]Transcripts of Evidence
                                10 November 2009, p 46[note: 28]Transcripts of Evidence dated 10 November 2009,
                                48[note: 29]Transcripts of Evidence dated
                                10 November 2009, pp 8, 45-46.[note: 30]3AB pp 667,
                        983.[note: 31]Transcripts
                                of Evidence dated 10 November 2009, pp
                        25-26.[note: 32]Transcripts
                                of Evidence dated 10 November 2009, pp
                        48-49.[note: 33]Transcripts
                                of Evidence dated 10 November 2009, pp
                        50-53.[note: 34]Transcripts of Evidence dated 10 November 2009, pp 48,
                                68-70.[note: 35]Transcripts of Evidence dated 10 November 2009,
                                p48[note: 36]Transcripts of Evidence dated 10 November 2009,
                                p46[note: 37]Transcripts of Evidence dated 10 November 2009, pp
                                80-81.Copyright © Government of Singapore.
