


      Shafeeg bin Salim Talib and another
      v
      Fatimah bte Abud bin Talib and others
    [2010] SGCA 11Case Number:Civil Appeal No 70 of 2009Decision Date:18 March 2010Tribunal/Court:Court of AppealCoram:
      Chan Sek Keong CJ; 
      Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA; 
      V K Rajah JA
    Counsel Name(s):
      Andre Yeap SC, Kelvin Poon and Farrah Salam (Rajah & Tann LLP) and Aloysius Leng (AbrahamLow LLC) for the appellants; 
      Daniel John and Ruth Zhu (Goodwins Law Corporation) for the first respondent; 
      Tan Jing Poi (Lim Ang John & Tan LLC) for the second and third respondents.
    Parties:
      Shafeeg bin Salim Talib and another — 
      Fatimah bte Abud bin Talib and others
    
[LawNet Editorial Note: The decision from which this appeal arose is reported at [2009] 3 SLR(R) 439.]
18 March 2010Judgment reserved.

        Chan Sek Keong CJ (delivering the judgment of the
                court):
Introduction
1       This is an appeal against the decision of the
                    High Court judge (“the Judge”) in Originating Summons No 1749
                    of 2007 dismissing an application for a declaration that the estate of
                    Obeidillah bin Salim bin Talib, deceased (“the Deceased”) was
                    entitled to a half share in the property at 1  Farrer Road, #10-06, Tulip
                    Garden, Singapore 268817 (the “Property”) (see Shafeeg bin Salim Talib and another (administrators of the estate of
                        Obeidillah bin Salim bin Talib, deceased) v Fatimah bte Abud bin Talib and
                        others [2009] 3 SLR(R) 439
                (“GD”)).
The background
2       The Deceased died intestate on 5 May 2005,
                    leaving a widow, two children, a sister and 10 nephews. The appellants, Shafeeg
                    bin Salim Talib and Abdul Jalil bin Ahmad bin Talib (“the
                    Appellants”), are the administrators of the estate of the Deceased
                    (“the Estate”), having obtained letters of administration on
                    22 January 2007. The respondents are Fatimah bte Abud bin Talib
                        (“1st Respondent”), Ben Gibran and Ruth S
                    Telyb (“2nd and 3rd Respondents”). The
                        1st Respondent is the widow of the Deceased and the
                        2nd and 3rd Respondents are their children. The respondents
                    are collectively referred to as “the Respondents” in this
                    judgment.
3       The Property was purchased by the Deceased and
                    registered in his name and that of the 1st Respondent
                    as joint tenants on 6 April 1998 under the provisions of the Land
                    Titles Act (Cap 157, 1994 Rev Ed). The
                    1st Respondent claims that her interest in the
                    Property was a gift from the Deceased and that he told her that he wanted her to
                    have the Property upon his death. The Appellants do not admit this allegation,
                    but at the same time they do not wish to dispute the allegation because (as
                    their counsel has emphasised to us) they do not want to deprive her of a half
                    share in the Property. However, as administrators of a Muslim estate, they
                    consider that they have an obligation to uphold Muslim law and therefore to
                    pursue the claim for a half share in the Property which, in their view, belonged
                    to the Estate on the death of the Deceased and fell into or reverted to the
                    Estate and which should be distributed in accordance with Muslim law under
                    s 112(1) of the Administration of Muslim Law Act (Cap 3, 1999 Rev
                    Ed) (“the AMLA”). The Appellants have therefore confined their
                    appeal to a claim for a half share in the Property (“the Half
                    Share”).
4       Both the Deceased and the
                        1st Respondent are Yemeni Arabs by origin and, at
                    all material times, they were Muslims of the Shafi‘i school of Islam. The
                        2nd and 3rd Respondents were also Muslims before their
                    conversion to Christianity a few years before the death of the
                Deceased.
5       On 12 May 2005, pursuant to an
                    application of the Appellants, the Syariah Court issued an inheritance
                    certificate (“the Inheritance Certificate”) under s 115 of
                    the AMLA identifying 12 beneficiaries of the Estate. The
                        1stRespondent was declared as having 10/40 shares in the Estate. The
                        2nd and 3rd Respondents, not being Muslims at the date of
                    death of the Deceased, were not entitled to any share in the
                Estate.
6       On 5 July 2005, the
                        1st Respondent
                    filed a Notice of Death of the Deceased at the Singapore Land Registry and
                    became registered as the sole proprietor of the Property. On 26 September
                    2005, the 1stRespondent transferred the Property to herself and the
                        2nd and 3rdRespondents as joint tenants by way of gift.
7       On 22 March 2007, the Appellants’
                    solicitors wrote to the Majlis Ugama Islam Singapura (MUIS) to seek a fatwa that the gift of the Deceased’s share of the
                    Property made by the 1st Respondent is contrary to faraid (Muslim inheritance law). The letter further
                    stated:
Our clients understand that though there is a right of survivorship to the
                        surviving joint owner under civil law, under the Administration of Muslim
                        Law Act, the intestate deceased’s half share in the property upon his
                        death devolves onto his beneficiaries under the Inheritance Certificate to
                        be dealt with under Muslim law. His widow does not take the said property of
                        the deceased as a surviving joint owner under Faraid and to make a gift of
                        this share.
8       In response to this letter, MUIS issued a
                        fatwa on 17 July 2007 (“the 2007
                        Fatwa”) as follows:
The Fatwa Committee is of the opinion that the estate is considered as a
                        matrimonial property (harta sepencarian) as
                        the deceased and his wife had jointly own [sic] it.
Therefore half of the estate is considered as inheritance and should be
                        distributed in accordance to Islamic Inheritance Law (faraidh).
9       On 17 August 2007, the Appellants’
                    solicitors wrote to the 1st Respondent to demand
                    that she restore the Half Share to the Estate. The
                        1st Respondent refused, claiming that she became
                    the sole owner of the Property upon the Deceased’s death under the right
                    of survivorship. Consequently, the Appellants commenced the present action for a
                    declaration that the Estate was entitled to the Half Share under Muslim law,
                    relying on the 2007 Fatwa. The Respondents
                    contested the Appellants’ application and challenged the validity of the
                    2007 Fatwa.
The decision below
10     The Appellants’ application was
                    dismissed by the Judge who held as follows:
(a)     section 112(1) of the AMLA was
                        concerned with the distribution of the estate
                        of a Muslim person according to Muslim law, and not with the determination
                        of the assets that constitute the estate;
(b)     the determination was to be made under civil
                        law, ie, the common law, and not under Muslim
                        law;
(c)     since
                        there was no specific legislation which prevented the operation of the right
                        of survivorship in a joint tenancy of land held by Muslims, the Half Share
                        passed to the 1st Respondent as the
                        surviving joint tenant under the right of survivorship at common law and,
                        therefore, it did not form part of the Estate; and
(d)     the Deceased was not a Malay person
                        and therefore the expression “Malay” as defined in
                        s 112(3) of the AMLA (a point which the Appellants have not asserted),
                        did not apply to him.
11     In relation to the Appellants’ case
                    based on the 2007 Fatwa, the Judge held that since
                    the 2007 Fatwa was requested by the Appellants
                    under s 32(1) of the AMLA, and not by the court under s 32(7), he was
                    not bound by the 2007 Fatwa, following the
                    decision in Saniah bte Ali and others v Abdullah bin
                        Ali [1990] 1 SLR(R) 555 (“Saniah”) (see [30]
                    below). The Judge also declined to seek a ruling from MUIS on the ground that
                    the issue he had to decide, ie, whether the Half
                    Share belonged to the Estate, was not a question of Muslim law and that
                    s 32(7) would only be applicable where a question of Muslim law fell to be
                    determined.
Issues raised on appeal
12     The Appellants’ case on appeal is based
                    on the following submissions:
(a)     Muslim law governs the distribution
                        of the Property as it was part of the Estate on the death of the Deceased as
                        the common law right of survivorship is repugnant to the fundamental tenets
                        of Muslim law.
(b)     (b)Alternatively, to the extent that the Deceased purported to give to the
                            1st Respondent the Half Share by way of joint
                        ownership and with any accompanying right of survivorship effective upon his
                        death, the gift is void as between two Muslims.
(c)     Alternatively, the common law is modified,
                        pursuant to s 3 of the Application of English Law Act (Cap 7A,
                        1994 Rev Ed) (“the AELA”), such that the right of
                        survivorship is inapplicable to the Deceased as a Muslim.
(d)     The Deceased was a Malay under
                        s 112(3) of the AMLA, under which the (civil) court has the power to
                        make a division of the Property in such proportions as the court thinks
                        fit.
13     The first three submissions, (a) to (c),
                    overlap to some extent in the detailed arguments, but the underlying argument of
                    all three is that a joint tenancy is repugnant to Muslim law in that it operates
                    as a testamentary gift to the surviving tenant and specifically in the case of
                    the 1st Respondent, it would enhance her unalterable
                    share as prescribed by Muslim law.
14     The Respondents contest every one of these
                    submissions and contend that the Judge was correct in his findings on the
                    law.
Arguments on submissions (a) to (c)
15     The Appellants’ arguments on submissions
                    (a) to (c) listed in [12] above are as
                    follows:
(a)     The phrase “estate and
                        effects” in s 112(1) of the AMLA refers to all the property of a
                        deceased Muslim which he has power to dispose of: see AMM
                            Murugappa Chetty v The Official Administrator as Administrator of the
                            Estate of Yap Chok, Deceased[1932] 1 FMSLR 305 and
                            Kirby-Smith v Parnell [1903] 1 Ch
                        483, and the definition of “net estate” in the Inheritance
                        (Family Provision) Act (Cap 138, 1985 Rev Ed). Further, the word
                        “effects” must mean more than simply “estate”:
                        the holding in Saniahthat the phrase simply
                        means “property” should not be followed. Furthermore, the
                        construction in Saniah turned on the
                        interpretation of the legislative intention of the Central Provident Fund
                        Act (Cap 36, 1988 Rev Ed) (“CPF Act”) which
                        ring-fenced funds in CPF Accounts from attachment by creditors and thereby
                        excluded such funds from the estate of a deceased account
                    holder.
(b)     Since the
                        Deceased was free to sever the joint tenancy of the Property at any time
                        before his death, the Half Share was at all times part of his “estate
                        and effects” under s 112(1) of the AMLA.
(c)     The concept of joint tenancy as
                        understood in English law is unknown in Muslim law, and Fatwa 20 and Fatwa 41 (see
                            [66] below) posted on MUIS’s
                        website support the case for the Appellants that on the death of a Muslim,
                        his half share held as a joint tenant remains for distribution according to
                            faraid.
(d)     The right of a Muslim to make gifts inter vivos does not assist the Respondents as the
                        operation of the right of survivorship does not equate to a gift of the Half
                        Share inter vivos. Equally, the Muslim concept
                        of hibah ruqba does not assist the Respondents
                        because it is a concept under the Hanafi
                        school of Islam which is inapplicable to the Deceased who belonged to the
                            Shafi?i school of
                    Islam.
(e)     The
                        operation of the right of survivorship also transgresses the
                        well-established rule in faraid that a Muslim
                        may not enhance the share of any of his legal heirs: see Mohamed Ismail bin Ibrahim and another v Mohammad Taha bin
                            Ibrahim [2004] 4 SLR(R) 756 (“Mohamed Ismail”).
(f)     The registration of the Property in the name of
                        the Deceased and that of the 1st Respondent as
                        joint tenants was not, or did not operate as, a gift inter vivos because while the Deceased was alive, both of
                        them held the entire interest in the Property. If there was a gift, it was a
                        gift made only or which took effect only upon the Deceased’s death
                        – just like the gift in Mohamed
                        Ismailwhich cannot be distinguished from the present case (see
                            [49] below).
(g)     Section 3(2) of the AELA provides
                        that the common law is subject to modifications to suit the circumstances of
                        Singapore and its inhabitants. The local culture of Muslims makes the common
                        law of joint tenancy inapplicable to Muslims.
The Respondents’ replies to the Appellants’
                arguments
16     The 1st
                    Respondent’s replies are as follows:
(a)     The Judge was correct in holding
                        that whether the Property belonged to the Estate is not a question of Muslim
                        law, but of civil law (see the decision of LP Thean J in Saniah). Further, although the phrase “estate and
                        effects” is not defined, the Inheritance (Family Provision) Act has
                        defined the expression “net estate” to mean “all the
                        property of which a deceased person had power to dispose by his will
                        (otherwise than by virtue of a special power of appointment) less the amount
                        of his funeral, testamentary and administration expenses, debts and
                        liabilities and estate duty payable out of his estate on his
                        death”.
(b)     (b)The title of the 1st Respondent to the
                        Property was conclusive under s 36(2) of the Land Titles Act
                        (Cap 157, 2004 Rev Ed) (“the LTA”) as the Registrar
                        of Titles had issued a Subsidiary Strata Certificate of Title to the
                        Deceased and the 1st Respondent as registered proprietors of the
                        Property as joint tenants; by virtue of such joint tenancy, the
                            1st Respondent owned an absolute interest in
                        the entire property co-extensively with the Deceased. Upon the death of the
                        Deceased, his interest was completely extinguished, leaving the
                            1st Respondent as the absolute owner of the
                        Property (see E H Burn & James Cartwright, Cheshire & Burn’s Modern Law of Real Property
                        (Oxford University Press, 17th Ed, 2006) (“Cheshire & Burn”) at
                    p 455).
(c)     Even
                        if Muslim law were to apply to joint tenancies, the Property would not fall
                        into the Estate for the following reasons:
(i)       Muslims may make gifts
                                inter vivos.
(ii)       The right of survivorship
                            is not repugnant to Muslim law (see Mahomed Jusab
                                Abdulla v Fatmabai Jusab Abdulla AIR (35) 1948
                            Bombay 53 (“Mahomed Jusab
                            Abdulla”)). Muslim law has a concept of joint tenancy
                            similar but not exactly the same as a joint tenancy at common law (see
                            the expert evidence on the Muslim law concept of a gift (Musha’a and hibah
                                ruqba in Shafi?i law) given
                            by the Respondent’s expert witness, Ian David Edge, Lecturer in
                            Law and Director of the Centre of Islamic and Middle Eastern Law, School
                            of Oriental and African Studies, University of London,
                        UK).
(iii)       
              Fatwa 20 contradicts the 2007
                                Fatwa issued in the present
                            case.
(iv)       The creation of a joint tenancy cannot be equated to the making
                            of a will and, accordingly, the decision of Mohamed
                                Ismail has no application to the present
                        case.
17     The 2nd and
                        3rd Respondents support the arguments of the
                        1st Respondent. Apart from also relying on the
                    definition of “net estate” in the Inheritance (Family Provision)
                    Act, they contend as follows:
(a)     The property of a Muslim may be
                        excluded from the estate of a Muslim by operation of statute (see Saniah and Re Man bin Mihat,
                            Deceased [1965] 2 MLJ 1 (“Re
                            Man bin Mihat, Decd”) where Suffian J held that a
                        Muslim could create a trust of the benefit of an insurance policy in favour
                        of his wife under s 23 of the Civil Law Ordinance, 1956 (Federation of
                        Malaya)), or by operation of the common law.
(b)     Local circumstances do not require the common law
                        on joint tenancy to be modified as, since the founding of Singapore, Muslim
                        couples have had the choice, available to all property owners, to hold the
                        property as joint tenants with the right of survivorship or to hold as
                        tenants in common.
18     It can be seen from the summary of the
                    arguments of the parties that they raise issues not only of the application of
                    the general law (ie, the common law and
                    legislation) to immovable property in Singapore owned by Muslims but also the
                    extent to which Muslim law applies to determine what a deceased Muslim’s
                    estate and effects are under s 112(1) of the AMLA. In order to understand
                    the intricate relationship between the common law and legislation (and in
                    particular the legislation on the ownership and transfer of registered land in
                    Singapore) and the law of succession and testamentary gifts under Muslim law, it
                    is necessary that we first set out our understanding of the position of Muslims
                    in Singapore under the general law.
The status of Muslim law and the Muslims in Singapore
19     The island of Singapore was part of the
                    territorial domain of the Johor Sultanate before 1824 when its sovereignty was
                    ceded to the British. As a British possession, its inhabitants were subject to
                    English principles of law. However, it was not until 1826 when the Second
                    Charter of Justice (“the Second Charter”) introduced the entire
                    corpus of English law (common law, equity and English statutes of general
                    application) to Singapore so far as it was applicable to the circumstances of
                    Singapore and its inhabitants and subject to such modifications as those
                    circumstances might require (as the courts later held its effect to be such).
                    The consequence of this development was that the general law was applicable to
                    all except where the customs and personal laws of the inhabitants required that
                    the general law be modified to suit their circumstances. For example, the common
                    law has been modified or held inapplicable to the Chinese and Malay communities:
                    see L A Sheridan, Malaya and Singapore The Borneo
                        Territories (Stevens & Sons Limited, 1961) at pp
                    371–380 and the cases cited therein, and Tan Sook Yee, Tang Hang Wu &
                    Kelvin F K Low, Tan Sook Yee’s Principles of
                        Singapore Land Law (LexisNexis, 3rd Ed, 2009) at
                    paras 1.4 and 2.7.
20     Over the years, the customs and personal laws
                    of the various communities which were once accepted as modifications of the
                    general law have been abrogated and replaced by legislation, except for certain
                    areas of Muslim law (mainly in marriage, divorce, custody of children,
                    maintenance of wives and children, succession to property and distribution of
                    Muslim estates) which have been accorded legislative recognition by and in the
                    AMLA. The legal regime under the Second Charter now subsists under s 3 of
                    the AELA, s 3(2) of which provides that the common law shall continue to be
                    in force in Singapore, as provided in subsection (1), so far as it is
                    applicable to the circumstances of Singapore and its inhabitants and subject to
                    such modifications as those circumstances may require. Save for these matters,
                    the general law and legislation apply to the general population, including
                    Muslims, except where legislation specifically exempts Muslims from its
                    operation. Examples of such legislation are the Intestate Succession Act, the
                    Inheritance (Family Provision) Act, the Legitimacy Act and the Women’s
                    Charter.
21     In relation to ownership of real (immovable)
                    property and personal (movable) property, and interests in rights in such
                    property and things, the general law applies to determine ownership, tenures and
                    legal rights in them. As far as land is concerned, the common law applies
                    generally subject to ownership and tenures of land recognised by, or modified
                    by, or subject to, overriding legislation such as the LTA, the Land Titles
                    (Strata) Act, the Registration of Deeds Act, the State Lands Act and the
                    Residential Property Act. The subject matter of the dispute in this appeal, the
                    Half Share (or the Property), is subject to the common law and the LTA in so far
                    as it preserves the common law on the interests of registered proprietors in
                    registered land.
22     However, although title to land in Singapore
                    is determined by the common law and the applicable statutes (in the case of
                    common law land) and the LTA (in the case of registered land, including strata
                    land), Muslims who own land are also subject to their personal law, ie, Muslim law, in relation to their legal capacity as
                    Muslims to deal with it by will.
23     It is common ground that, under Muslim law, a
                    Muslim is subject to two main restrictions in dealing with property by will.
                    First, he may not will away more than one-third of his estate. Second, he may
                    not increase or reduce the share of any of his legal heirs determined according
                    to Muslim law. The restrictions against testamentary dispositions under Muslim
                    law have been stated in many Singapore and Malaysian cases such as Re Fatimah binte Mohamed bin Ali Al Tway, Deceased
                    [1933] 1 MLJ 211 (“Re
                    Fatimah”), Abdul Jabbar v M Mohamed
                        Abubacker; Re The Will of M Mohamed Haniffa, Deceased [1940]
                    MLJ 286 (which involved a Hanafi, but the
                    applicable principles are nonetheless the same in relation to bequests) and
                        Re Estate of Siti bte Naydeen
                    [1983–1984] SLR(R) 682. These cases were referred to in Mohamed Ismail where MPH Rubin J said, at [7],
                    as follows:
Muslim jurisprudence imposes two principal restrictions on testamentary
                        power. The first restriction concerns the quantum of bequests, where the
                        rule is that a person may not dispose by will more than one-third of his
                        property. The second limitation upon testamentary power (recognised by all
                        four schools of the Sunni Muslims, the Shafii school being one amongst them)
                        is that a testator may not make a bequest in favour of any of his legal
                        heirs. In other words, a Muslim cannot by a testamentary disposition reduce
                        or enlarge the shares of those who by law are entitled to inherit
                        …
24     In an earlier Federated Malay States case,
                        viz, Shaik Abdul Latif v
                        Shaik Elias Bux [1915] 1 FMSLR 204, the appeal court held
                    (as stated in the headnote of the report):
[U]nder Mohammedan Law a testator has the power to dispose of not more
                        than one-third of the property belonging to him at the time of death; and
                        that the residue of such property must descend in fixed proportions to those
                        declared by Mohammedan Law to be his heirs unless the heirs consent to a
                        deviation from this rule.
Similarly, in a later Malaysian case, viz, Re Man bin Mihat, Decd,
                    Suffian J not only described a Muslim’s testamentary restrictions in
                    a similar fashion, he also stated clearly the complete freedom of a Muslim to
                    dispose of his property inter vivos, even at the
                    expense of his legal heirs under Muslim law. He said (at 3):
Muslim law rigidly prescribes the share of every heir and no alteration of
                        these shares may be made by will, for a bequest to an heir requires the
                        consent of all co-heirs and a bequest to strangers may not take effect
                        beyond 1/3 of the testator’s estate, but there are no restrictions
                        beyond these two limitations. So it is lawful for a
                            Muslim to alter the prescribed shares of his heirs by disposing outright
                            during his lifetime part or the whole of his property to a favoured
                            wife, either directly by way of a gift inter vivos or indirectly through trustees. If there is no legal
                        objection to a Muslim altering his heir’s share by himself during the
                        lifetime making a gift through trustees to a favoured wife, in my judgment
                        equally there should be no objection in principle to the validity of a
                        similar gift made not by himself but by statute. [emphasis added]
25     It is clear from the judgment of
                    Suffian J that there is no restriction against a Muslim giving away all his
                    property inter vivos during his lifetime to any
                    person he wishes, and thereby depriving his legal heirs under Muslim law of any
                    estate which they can inherit. This brings us to the critical issue in the
                    present case, which is whether the Deceased had made an inter
                        vivos disposition with respect to the Property when he purchased
                    it and had it registered in his own name and that of the
                        1st Respondent to hold as joint
                tenants.
What law determines the “estate and effects” of a
                Muslim under s 112(1) of the AMLA
26     The Judge decided that this issue did not
                    raise a question of Muslim law but one of construction of the section to be
                    determined by the court according to the general law. Section 112 of the
                    AMLA provides as follows:

Distribution of Muslim estate to
                            be according to Muslim law


112. —(1) In the case of any Muslim
                        person domiciled in Singapore dying intestate, the estate and effects shall
                        be distributed according to the Muslim law as modified, where applicable, by
                        Malay custom.
(2)    This section shall apply in cases where a person
                            dies partly intestate as well as in cases where he dies wholly
                            intestate.
(3)    In the case of a Malay dying intestate, the court
                            may make an order for the division of the harta sepencarian or jointly
                            acquired property in such proportions as to the court seems
                        fit.
27     We agree with the Judge’s view that the
                    meaning of the phrase “estate and effects” of the Deceased is a
                    matter of statutory construction under the general law but, in our view, this
                    does not mean that the court does not have to take into account Muslim law. In
                    our view, the construction of that section involves a consideration of Muslim
                    law on the effect of any testamentary or inter
                        vivos disposition of property made by a deceased Muslim. Such
                    disposition may have no effect for lack of legal capacity or be void under
                    Muslim law and, if so, such property would fall into his estate for distribution
                    under that section. The question as to what assets constitute the estate and
                    effects of a deceased Muslim has first to be determined according to his
                    personal law, where applicable to the circumstances, and not according to the
                    common law.
28     In this respect, the Second Charter and its
                    successor statute, the AELA, permit the common law to be modified to suit local
                    circumstances (see [20] above), but do not
                    permit a statute that is of general application, eg, the Penal Code, to be modified in its application to the
                    circumstances of local inhabitants, for the rather obvious reason that otherwise
                    the statute would have provided for such modifications as are necessary. The
                    Judge has described a list of such statutes which are expressed to exclude
                    Muslims in its general or specific application (in the context of Art 12 of
                    the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint)
                    (“the Constitution”)), viz,
                    s 27 of the Civil Law Act (Cap 43, 1999 Rev Ed) (on bona vacantia), the Legitimacy Act (on Muslim
                    marriages), the Intestate Succession Act (on succession under Muslim law),
                    s 3 of the Wills Act (Cap 352, 1996 Rev Ed) (power to dispose of
                    property by will not applicable to Muslims), the Oaths and Declarations Act
                    (Muslims may make affirmations) and the Women’s Charter (on marriage,
                    divorce, and ancillary matters). Absent such exceptions, legislation must
                    prevail over personal law, such as Muslim law, as even common law prevails over
                    personal law where the circumstances do not require the common law to be
                    modified in favour of personal law. By way of illustration, we refer to two
                    decisions where the courts have held that the relevant statute had the effect of
                    overriding Muslim law which would otherwise have been applicable to the
                    disposition in question of the personal property
                    of a Muslim.
29     In Re Man bin Mihat,
                        Decd, the deceased had taken out a life assurance policy for the
                    benefit of his wife under s 23 of the Civil Law Ordinance, 1956 (Federation
                    of Malaya) which provided that such a policy would create a trust in favour of
                    her and that the insurance moneys payable out of such policy would not form part
                    the estate of the insured. The legislative policy of s 23 was two-fold:
                    first, it vested the beneficial interest in the policy in the wife immediately
                    for her protection. Second, since it provided that the proceeds of the insurance
                    policy would not form part of the estate of the deceased, estate duty (then)
                    payable on those proceeds would be reduced. But, clearly, s 23 effected a
                    disposal of the interest of the deceased before his death to take effect upon
                    his death. Hence, upon the death of the deceased, the proceeds of the insurance
                    policy were not part of his estate subject to the restrictions of Muslim law
                    upon his testamentary capacity. Suffian J held that the legislative vesting
                    had the effect of making an immediate inter vivos
                    gift to the wife, even though she could only enjoy it upon the death of her
                    husband.
30     In Saniah, the
                    deceased was the holder of a CPF Account with the CPF Board. He nominated his
                    stepsister, the plaintiff, as the sole nominee for the moneys in his CPF
                    Account. He died intestate. The defendant obtained from the Syariah Court an
                    inheritance certificate declaring that he, as the deceased’s lawful
                    brother, was entitled to his entire estate. The question arose as to whether the
                    moneys in the deceased’s CPF Account belonged to his estate or to the
                    plaintiff. Thean J held that on the proper construction of s 23(3) read
                    with s 24(1) of the CPF Act, a trust was created in favour of the person or
                    persons nominated to receive the deceased member’s moneys in the CPF
                    Account. This being the legislative scheme, it was obvious that the statutory
                    trust had to prevail over the application of Muslim law to that fund. This was
                    why Thean J also held that there was no conflict between the CPF Act and
                    the AMLA, and that even if there was such a conflict, the CPF Act would
                    prevail.
31     With respect to the fatwa issued by MUIS that the moneys in the CPF Account belonged
                    to the estate on the death of the deceased account holder and had to be divided
                    in accordance to faraid, Thean J decided, at [17],
                    correctly in our view, that:
In my opinion, the fatwa is merely an
                        opinion of the Majlis and is not binding on this court which has full
                        jurisdiction to decide on the matter in issue. What is
                            before me is not really a point of Muslim law on which the Majlis is
                            empowered under s 32 to issue the fatwa. Though the parties in dispute are two Muslims, and their
                            dispute is on the moneys paid out of the Fund on the death of a member
                            who was a Muslim domiciled in Singapore, the true issue raised before me
                            is which of the two parties is entitled to such moneys under the CPF Act
                            and the AML Act, and not under any Muslim law, and the issue turns on
                            the proper and true construction of ss 23 and 24 of the CPF Act and
                            s 112(1) of the AML Act. For the reasons I have given
                        and on the construction I have placed on ss 23 and 24 of the CPF Act
                        and s 112(1) of the AML Act, I cannot, with respect, accept the
                            fatwa as correct.[emphasis added]
The applicable law to determine the ownership of the Property on the
                death of the Deceased
32     The Property is an apartment at Tulip Garden
                    at Farrer Road and is registered land subject to the LTA as well as the Land
                    Titles (Strata) Act. We might point out that even if the Property was common law
                    land, the general law would be applicable unless local conditions require that
                    it be not applied to land owned by Muslims. However, this is not the law in
                    Singapore. In Re Fatimah, a Singapore case
                    concerning a purported nasr (ie, a nuzriah) of two houses in
                    Singapore, Sproule Ag CJ said at 212 that as “the gift is of
                    immoveables in Singapore … our own system of law [and not Muslim law] is
                        prima facie applicable”.
33     Under the LTA, a registered proprietor is the
                    absolute owner of the land subject to any adverse interests that are notified on
                    the land title folio. It is not disputed that the Property was not subject to
                    any notification at the date of death of the Deceased. When a registered
                    proprietor dies, his interest in the land is transmitted to his personal
                    representatives. Thus, s 107(1) of the LTA provides as follows:

Transmission on death of
                            proprietors in severalty


107. —(1) Personal representatives or
                        any other person claiming land of a deceased proprietor may apply in the
                        approved form to become registered as proprietors by transmission of the
                        land, and upon proof of their representation or claim, the Registrar shall
                        enter on the folio a memorial of registration in accordance with
                        section 37.
Similarly, s 110 provides for the transmission of registered land
                    on the bankruptcy of the registered owner.
34     However, there is no provision in the LTA that
                    expressly refers to transmission of land held in joint tenancy. Instead,
                    s 114 provides as follows:

Notice of death or
                            defeasance


114. —(1) Upon the death of a joint
                        tenant or of a life tenant of registered land, the proprietor who has become
                        entitled to that land consequent upon that death may apply in the approved
                        form to have the death notified in the land-register.
(2)    Upon proof to his satisfaction of such a death,
                            the Registrar shall make such entries in the land-register as may be
                            necessary to indicate that the interest of the deceased proprietor has
                            determined, and that the land has become vested in the survivor or other
                            person entitled in reversion or remainder, as the case may
                        be.
(3)    Where a person has become entitled to registered
                            land consequent upon defeasance of the interest of the proprietor of
                            that land, and under circumstances in respect of which no express
                            provision is made by this Act for registration of the interest of that
                            person, he may apply for such registration in the approved
                        form.
(4)    Section 29 of the Estate Duty Act
                            (Cap. 96) shall apply to registered land, and upon the death of a
                            joint tenant or a life tenant of registered land, the Commissioner of
                            Estate Duties shall not be required to register any instrument of charge
                            claiming an interest in the land for estate duty payable.
35     In our view, there is a sound explanation for
                    the structure of s 114 in omitting any reference to transmission of land
                    held in joint tenancy upon the death of a joint tenant. The reason is that there
                    is no transmission in law. And the reason why there is no transmission is that
                    the interest of a deceased joint tenant simply disappears into thin air. Nothing
                    “passes” or is transmitted to the surviving tenant. In the present
                    case, the Judge referred to the following excerpt from Robert Megarry and
                    William Wade, The Law of Real Property (Sweet and
                    Maxwell, 7th Ed, 2008) at paras 13–002 and 13–003:
“A gift of lands to two or more persons in joint tenancy is such a
                        gift as imparts to them, with respect to all other persons than themselves,
                        the properties of one single owner.” Although as between themselves
                        joint tenants have separate rights, as against everyone else they are in the
                        position of a single owner. The intimate nature of joint tenancy is shown by
                        its two principal features, the right of survivorship and the “four
                        unities”.
1. The right of survivorship. This is, above
                        all others, the distinguishing feature of a joint tenancy. On the death of one joint tenant, his interest in the
                            landpassesto the other joint tenants by the right of survivorship
                            (jus accrescendi). This process continues until there is one
                        survivor, who then holds the land as sole owner. A joint tenancy cannot pass
                        under the will or intestacy of a joint tenant. In each case the right of
                        survivorship takes precedence. It is often said therefore that each joint
                        tenant holds nothing by himself and yet holds the whole together with the
                        other. Whether he takes everything or nothing depends upon whether or not he
                        is the last joint tenant to die. …
[emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
36     The loose use of the word
                    “passes” in this passage gave the Appellants the opportunity to
                    argue that since there is a passing of property on death by reason of the right
                    of survivorship, that right is contrary to Muslim law because it has the
                    consequence of enlarging the share of the 1st
                    Respondent in the Estate as a legal heir of the Deceased. The Appellants also
                    referred to several decisions in which the courts have said that upon the death
                    of a joint tenant, the whole property passes to
                    the survivor: see Fowler v Barron [2008]
                    2 FLR 831 at [16], Stack v Dowden [2006]
                    1 FLR 254 at [55] and Lumley v Robinson
                    [2002] EWCA Civ 94 at [36]. On the basis of these statements, the
                    Appellants have argued that because the whole Property passes to the 1st Respondent, the
                    right of survivorship is contrary to Muslim law.
37     Based on the same reasoning, the Appellants
                    also argued that what was apparently an inter
                        vivos disposition of the Property in favour of the
                        1st Respondent was effectively a testamentary
                    disposition and as such it was contrary to Muslim law. Reliance was placed on
                    the decision in Mohamed Ismail for this
                    proposition.
38     We are unable to accept any of the
                    Appellants’ arguments on this issue for the reasons set out
                below.
The nature of the right of survivorship
39     The first reason is that in a joint tenancy no
                    interest in the joint property passes to the
                    survivor upon the death of the other joint tenant. Although some English courts
                    might have used the word “passes” to describe the legal effect of
                    the right of survivorship, the word was used as a figure of speech since under
                    English law it would make no difference how the jus
                        accrescendi was described. The joint tenancy is a peculiar
                    institution of English land law which has been received as part of the law of
                    Singapore since 1826 under the Second Charter and which the courts have not
                    found necessary to modify to suit the circumstances of the local inhabitants.
                    English land law was a law of general application which was entirely suitable
                    for local conditions as no functional system of law practically existed in
                    Singapore at the material time.
40     The true doctrine is set out in Wayne Morrison
                    ed, William Blackstone’s Commentaries on the Laws of
                        England vol II (Cavendish Publishing Limited, 2001) at
                    para 184, where the chronicler of the common law said:
From the same principle also arises the remaining grand incident of joint
                        estates; viz. the doctrine of survivorship: by
                        which, when two or more persons are seized of a joint estate, of
                        inheritance, for their own lives, or pur auter vie, or are jointly possessed
                        of any chattel interest, the entire tenancy upon the
                            decease of any of them remains to the survivors, and at length to the
                            last survivor; and he shall be entitled to the whole estate, whatever it
                            be, whether an inheritance or a common freehold only, or even a less
                            estate. This is the natural and regular consequence of the union and
                            entirely of their interest. The interest of two joint-tenants is not
                            only equal or similar, but also is one and the same. One has
                        not originally a distinct moiety from the other; but, if by any subsequent
                        act (as by alienation or forfeiture of either) the interest becomes separate
                        and distinct, the joint-tenancy instantly ceases. But,
                            while it continues, each of two joint-tenants has a concurrent interest
                            in the whole; and therefore, on the death of his companion, the sole
                            interest in the whole remains to the survivor. For the interest which the survivor originally had is clearly
                            not divested by the death of his companion; and no other person can now
                            claim to have ajointestate with him, for no one can now have an interest in
                            the whole, accruing by the same title, and taking effect at the same
                            time with his own; neither can any one claim aseparateinterest in any part of tenements; for that would be to
                            deprive the survivor of the right which he has in all, and every part.
                            As therefore the survivor’s original interest in the whole still
                            remains; and as no one can now be admitted, either jointly or
                        severally, to any share with him therein; it follows, that his own interest
                        must now be entire and several, and that he shall alone be entitled to the
                        whole estate (whatever it be) that was created by the original grant.
[emphasis in original in italics; emphasis added in bold and by
                        underlining]
41     In Cheshire and
                        Burn, the authors state succinctly at p 455 that “if
                    one joint tenant dies without having obtained a separate share in his lifetime,
                    his interest is extinguished and accrues to the surviving tenants”.
                    Similarly, Kevin Gray & Susan Francis Gray, Elements of
                        Land Law (Oxford University Press, 5th Ed, 2008)
                        (“Gray”) states as follows at
                    paras 7.4.9–7.4.11:

Operation of the survivorship
                            principle

7.4.9 The right of survivorship ensures that the
                            entitlement of each joint tenant is eliminated on his
                                death. …
…
7.4.11    Similarly, if [joint tenant] B now predeceases
                            [joint tenant] A, the right of survivorship operates ... B disappears
                            from the co-ownership and the entire fee simple estate in [the co-owned
                            property] ‘survives’ to A as sole legal and equitable owner.
                                Under the strict theory of survivorship,
                                A’s ownership never enlarges throughout this course of events
                                (except to the extent that A is no longer subject to the hazard of
                                survivorship). In reality, however, the ius accrescendi brings about a ‘distinct
                            shifting of economic interest, a decided change for the survivor’s
                            benefit’ – regardless, incidentally, of whether the ultimate
                            survivor made much (or any) contribution towards the initial purchase of
                            the land.
[emphasis added]
42     Finally, it may be pertinent to note that the
                    draftsman of the original Land Titles Ordinance, John Baalman, said in his
                    commentary, The Singapore Torrens System (Being A Commentary
                        on the Land Titles Ordinance, 1956 of the State of Singapore)
                    (The Government of the State of Singapore, 1961) at pp 191–192, on
                    s 93 (now s 114 of the current LTA) on joint tenancies of registered
                    land:

The consequence which ensues upon the death of a joint
                            tenant is not strictly a transmission. That tenant’s interest is
                            destroyed and there is nothing left of it to transmit. The
                        surviving tenant already had a registered interest in the land, plus the
                        expectancy of that interest being augmented by the death of his co-tenant.
                        In entering a notification of the death, the Registrar simply records the
                        fact that the expectancy has occurred.
…
The outstanding characteristic of a joint tenancy is the jus accrescendi or right of survivorship.
                        …
[emphasis added]
43     It is therefore clear from these authorities
                    that legally no interest in the Property passed to the
                        1st Respondent upon the Deceased’s death.
                    Whatever interest the Deceased had in the Property simply ceased to exist, and
                    the 1st Respondent became the sole absolute owner
                    because she would no longer be subject to the right of survivorship. As Baalman
                    has said, s 114 has given statutory recognition to this legal effect by
                    providing in subsection (1) that the surviving proprietor “who has
                    become entitled to that land consequent upon that death may apply in the
                    approved form to have the death notified in the land-register”, and
                    subsection (2) refers to the interest of the deceased proprietor having
                    “determined” upon death.
44     In our view, it is therefore not arguable that
                    the legal result of the operation of the right of survivorship under s 114
                    of the LTA can be modified to suit the circumstances of Muslims. If the right of
                    survivorship in a joint tenancy of registered land is contrary to Muslim law,
                    then the statute must prevail over personal law because that must have been the
                    legislative intent. Otherwise, the LTA would have created an exception in favour
                    of land owned by Muslims. Where legislation is enacted to deal specifically with
                    a subject matter, there is no room for modification to suit local circumstances
                    pursuant to the AELA in the absence of an express direction to the contrary.
                    This is the fatal flaw in the Appellants’ case. Because rights of
                    ownership and possession of land in Singapore are now primarily governed by
                    legislation over a common law foundation, there is no room for modification
                    permitted by the AELA. Any exemption of any class of people or community from
                    the operation of these laws can only be effected expressly or by necessary
                    implication. All general laws have the same effect. Indeed, s 3(1) of the
                    LTA goes even further by providing that except as provided by the LTA itself all
                    laws and regulations and all practices relating to estates and interests in land
                    operative at 1 March 1994 are repealed if they are inconsistent with the
                    LTA in their application to registered land. Section 112 of the AMLA is an
                    example of a legislative modification of the general law of succession
                    applicable to all other persons to suit the circumstances of Muslims. But it
                    does not apply to the determination of rights and interests in land in
                    Singapore. Hence, if a Muslim is not prohibited by his personal law from making
                    an inter vivos disposition of land through a joint
                    tenancy under the common law or the LTA, that disposition will take effect as
                    such. If there is any repugnancy, the LTA will prevail over Muslim law in this
                    regard, just as the CPF Act and s 23 of the Civil Law Ordinance, 1956
                    (Federation of Malaya) prevailed over Muslim law in Saniah and in Re Man bin Mihat,
                        Decd, respectively.
45     For these reasons, we hold that the interest
                    of the Deceased in the Property ceased to exist or was extinguished upon his
                    death and, accordingly, his estate and effects distributable under s 112(1)
                    of the AMLA in accordance with Muslim law did not include the Property or the
                    Half Share upon the death of the Deceased.
Arguments on other issues
46     The above conclusion is sufficient to dispose
                    of this appeal. However, for completeness, we should deal with the other
                    arguments of the Appellants, including the argument that the right of
                    survivorship in a joint tenancy of property is repugnant to Muslim law. If this
                    is indeed so, such a conclusion is relevant to the right of survivorship in a
                    joint tenancy of personal property which is a pure common law right and,
                    therefore, the argument may be made that the common law should be modified to
                    allow Muslim law to take precedence. Moneys held in joint accounts in a bank are
                    an example of personal property where such an issue has yet to be conclusively
                    decided by the courts.
Is a gift of personal property on joint tenancy subject to Muslim
                law?
47     In Malaysia, any issue relating to whether a
                    Muslim has made a valid inter vivos gift or
                        hibah is within the exclusive jurisdiction of
                    the syariah courts, even though that issue may arise in the course of
                    administration of a Muslim estate under the civil law: see Latifah bte Mat Zin v Rosmawati bte Sharibun & Anor [2006]
                    4 MLJ 705, affirmed by the Federal Court in [2007] 5 MLJ 101 (where
                    the dispute was whether moneys in bank accounts held jointly by the deceased and
                    the appellant (who was the deceased’s third wife) belonged to the widow or
                    the estate of the deceased). However, in Singapore this kind of issue is within
                    the jurisdiction of the civil courts, applying Muslim law to determine the
                    issue, as in the present case.
48     In this connection, the Appellants have put
                    forward an original argument that even if the Deceased were permitted by Muslim
                    law to make an inter vivos gift of the Property by
                    way of joint tenancy, both the Deceased and the 1st Respondent would have been holding the entire
                    interest in the Property under the law. Hence, during his lifetime, he gave away
                    nothing to the 1st Respondent. As the
                        1st Respondent became the beneficial owner of the
                    entire interest in the Property only upon the death of the Deceased, the gift of
                    the entire interest took effect only at that point in time. Hence, it was a
                    testamentary gift – just like the gift in Mohamed
                        Ismailwhich, it was argued, cannot be distinguished from the
                    present case.
49     We cannot accept this argument. It ignores
                    altogether the legal effect of the joint tenancy vis-à-vis the 1st Respondent. By holding the Property as joint
                    tenants with the 1st Respondent, the gift from the Deceased to the
                        1st Respondent of the entire Property was
                    completed. The 1st Respondent obtained an immediate interest in
                    the entire Property, entitling her to the full rights of possession and
                    enjoyment during her lifetime. Her interest in the entire Property would
                    extinguish only if she passes away before the Deceased. The decision in
                        Mohamed Ismailis distinguishable on a number
                    of grounds. First, that case was not concerned with a gift inter vivos of immovable property but with a purported gift by
                    will of a one-third share of the deceased’s estate by way of nuzriah (ie, an expressed
                    vow to do any act or to dedicate property for any purpose allowed by Muslim
                    law). Part of the gift was in favour of some of his legal heirs. The will stated
                    that the nuzriah would come into effect
                    “three days before [the deceased’s] death if it is due to illness,
                    or one hour before [his] death if it is sudden”. The judge said at
                    [64]:
However, reviewing all the learning referred to and the arguments
                        presented, I am of the view that inasmuch as the property delineated for the
                        purposes of the so-called nuzriah would not
                        leave the control, possession and ownership of the testator until after his
                        demise, the said nuzriah is no less than a
                        bequest or testamentary disposition to convey an intended but invalid gift
                        to the persons named (mostly legal heirs), and it plainly transgresses the
                        restrictions imposed by Muslim law.
Accordingly, the judge held that the nuzriah was in substance an expression of preference to give a
                    portion of his estate to some of his children and grandchildren which was
                    contrary to Muslim law. In Mohamed Ismail, the
                    deceased retained full control, ownership and possession of the property up to
                    the date of his death.
Is the concept of a right of survivorship repugnant to Muslim
                law?
50     The Appellants additionally argue that the
                    concept of a joint tenancy at common law is repugnant to Muslim law. But the
                    only authoritative statements they have produced are some juristic statements
                    that the concept is unknown to Muslim law. However, the Respondents have
                    produced other equally authoritative writings of Muslim jurists that the concept
                    of a right of survivorship exists in Muslim law, although with a slight
                    difference in the nature of ownership rights of the donee during his lifetime.
                    The equivalent concept of joint ownership in Muslim law is known as hibah ruqba. A hibah in
                    Muslim law is described in Faiz Badruddin Tyabji, Muslim Law,
                        The Personal Laws of Muslims in India and Pakistan (N M
                    Tripathi Private Limited, 4th Ed, 1968) (“Tyabji”) at p 300 as follows:
The legal effect of hiba is that the
                        immediate and absolute ownership of the subject of the hiba is transferred to the donee; and where the property is
                        purported to be transferred by way of hiba
                        with conditions, or restrictions, as to its use, or disposal, or alienation,
                        the conditions or restrictions may be void …
51     In Tyabji, the
                    author defined a ruqba at p 471 as
                    follows:
A ruqba means a hiba (or gift of the absolute ownership of some specified
                        property) with a condition that if the donee survives the donor, the subject
                        of the hiba shall belong absolutely to the
                        donee. Abu Hanifa and Imam Muhammad, hold that a disposition may not be
                        lawfully made by way of ruqba. Abu Yusuf and
                        latterly Imam Shafi‘i held that such a disposition operates as a
                            hiba, transferring the absolute estate in
                        the subject of gift. Shafi‘i had at first expressed a different
                        opinion; and it is stated in the Minhaj that
                        both of Shafi‘i’s opinions have equal currency.
52     Similarly, in Nawawi, Minhaj et Talibin, A Manual of Muhammadan Law according to the School of
                        Shafi‘i (Thacker, Spink & Co, 1914), the author
                    described the nature of a hibah ruqba (at
                    p 234) as follows:
By saying to some one, “I want you to live in this house of mine,
                        and that it shall pass to your heirs after your death,” one makes a
                        gift, as also by merely saying, “I want you to inhabit it,” at
                        least according to the doctrine adopted by Shafii in his second period, or
                        by saying, “After your death it will return to me.” Shafii in
                        his first period expressed an opinion different from that adopted in his
                        second as to the validity of a gift made in the following terms, “I
                        grant you a life interest in this house,” or “I make you a
                        gift of it for life”; that is if you predecease me it will return to
                        me, but otherwise it will be yours irrevocably. Nowadays, however, in our
                        school, both of the imam’s opinions have equal currency.
53     However, the validity of a hibah ruqba in Muslim law is not universally accepted by Islamic
                    jurists. In Asaf A A Fyzee, Outlines of Muhammadan
                        Law (Oxford University Press, 3rd Ed, 1964)
                        (“Fyzee”), the author stated the
                    following proposition at p 213:
The general rule is that conditional or contingent gifts are not valid.
                        …
A contingent gift is a gift to take effect
                        on the happening of a contingency; and a contingency is a possibility, a
                        chance, an event which may or may not occur. … A classical example of
                        a contingent gift is ruqba. D says: ‘My
                        mansion is thy ruqba’, that is,
                        ‘If you die, it is mine; if I die, it is yours.’ Strictly, if it
                        is a contingent gift, depending on the donee surviving the donor, it is
                        void.
[emphasis in original]
54     These juristic statements show that although
                    there is a conceptual difference between a hibah
                        ruqba and a joint tenancy at common law (in that at common law
                    the donor retains his entire interest in the property which cannot be the
                    subject of a valid gift by him on his death), the concept, if not the principle,
                    of survivorship is clearly present in a hibah
                        ruqba.
55     Nevertheless, it would appear that in
                        Fyzee at p 218, the author was of the
                    view that a hibah ruqba could be created by
                    appropriate means:

Tenancy-in-common, Joint-tenancy. English
                        law, as we have seen, has had considerable influence in modifying certain
                        applications – if not principles – of Muhammadan law in India.
                        As conveyances of property in larger towns are often in English, the
                        question arises whether, by gift or otherwise, a tenancy-in-common and a
                        joint tenancy can be created.
It has been held in Bombay that where a gift is made to two persons
                        jointly, without specifying their individual shares, the donors took as
                        tenants-in-common; for the Court leans heavily against a joint-tenancy. But
                        in another case, not involving a gift, the same High Court has laid down
                        that there is nothing in Muhammadan law against the creation of a
                        joint-tenancy, with benefit of survivorship. It would, therefore, seem that
                        both a tenancy-in-common and a joint-tenancy can be created by appropriate
                        means.
56     The above passage from Fyzee refers to a Bombay case where the High Court held that
                    Muslim law as applied in India did not prohibit the creation of a joint tenancy
                    of immovable property by Muslims. In Mahomed Jusab
                        Abdulla, the deceased had in her lifetime jointly purchased a
                    property with the defendant, and the conveyance stated that they were to hold
                    the property as “joint tenants and not as tenants in common”. The
                    plaintiff was the deceased’s brother and was one of her rightful heirs. He
                    claimed that as her heir, he was entitled to his share in her interest in the
                    property. Chagla J held as follows (at [3]–[8]):
[3]    Mr. Boovariwala on behalf of the plaintiff
                            has contended that joint tenancy is an estate unknown to Mahomedan law
                            and in this particular case the nature of the transaction is a gift and
                            this is a gift which violates the fundamental principles of Mahomedan
                            law inasmuch as it is a contingent gift, it is a gift in futuro and it is a gift of a musha’a because it is a gift of an undivided share
                            in a property which is capable of division and which was in fact not
                            divided. As I shall presently point out, in my opinion
                            Mr. Boovariwala is not right when he contends that the real nature
                            of the transaction is a gift. But even assuming it was a gift, would it
                            be true to say that in Mahomedan law a gift cannot be made to joint
                            tenants? So authoritative a text-book on Mahomedan law as
                            Hamilton’s Hedaya expressly refers to a gift to joint tenants and
                            expresses the opinion that a joint tenancy can be created validly under
                            Mahomedan law: see Hamilton’s
                            Hedaya, Vol. III 298. The way the matter is argued by Hedaya is very
                            interesting. The illustration taken is that of a gift of a house to two
                            men. Now, according to Haneefa, the gift is invalid
                                because, according to him, the gift is of half the house to each of
                                the donees and there is a danger of a mixture of property taking
                                place. But in the opinion of two of his disciples – and that
                                is the opinion to be preferred – the gift is valid because the
                                gift is of the whole of the house to each of the donees.
                            In other words, each of the donees has an interest in the whole of the
                            house and not in any specific share in that house. I may point out that
                            those are exactly the incidents of joint tenancy even under English law.
                            As has been pointed out, there are four unities among tenants: of title,
                            interest, possession and time. The right that each joint tenant has is
                            to claim partition against his other joint tenant, and on such a
                            partition the joint tenancy becomes severed. But if the joint tenant
                            dies without claiming partition, his interest does not survive to the
                            other joint tenant but his interest becomes extinguished.
[4]    Apart from Hedaya, the authorities of our Court
                            are also clear that a gift to joint tenants has been recognized as good
                            and valid under Mahomedan law. As far back as 1870, in [Rujabai v. Ismail Ahmed 7 Bom. H.C.R.
                                27],Sir Charles Sargent, relying on this identical
                            passage in the Hedaya to which I have referred, held that a deed of gift
                            in English form of a house to three persons is good under the Mahomedan
                            law as it showed a clear intention on the part of the donor to give the
                            property in the whole house to each of the donees. Tyabji J, who is
                            a distinguished scholar of Mahomedan law, in [Ebrahim
                                v. Bai Asi 35 Bom. L.R. 1148] has taken the same view,
                            that a gift to two or more persons whether as joint tenants or as
                            tenants-in-common, if completed by possession, is a valid gift; and our
                            Court of Appeal in [Musa v. Badesaheb
                            39 Bom. L.R. 1108] took the same view; and as pointed out by
                            Sir John Beaumont C.J. a gift to joint tenants really gets
                            over the difficulty created by the principle of musha’a because the gift being not of a share in
                            the article but the gift of the whole [article] to each of the donees,
                            the principle of musha’a does not
                            come into operation.
…
[7]    … this is not a case of a gift at all. It
                            is a case of contract or a grant. …What I have therefore to
                            construe is the grant, and on the construction of the grant I have no
                            doubt that the interest created in favour of grantees is that of joint
                            tenants. The question, therefore, is: Is there anything in Mahomedan law
                            which is repugnant to the creation of a grant of joint tenancy if the
                            parties so desire it? Mr. Boovariwala contends that although the Courts
                            in India might have held that joint tenancy can be created, there is no
                            decision which lays down that the incident of the benefit of
                            survivorship which attaches to the principle of joint tenancy has been
                            held to be good and valid under Mahomedan law. Now I cannot frankly
                            understand a joint tenancy which does not carry with it the necessary
                            and inevitable consequence of the benefit of survivorship. The very
                            basis of a joint tenancy … is that no joint tenant has any
                            specific interest in the property but has an interest in the whole of
                            the property, which if not specified by a partition, becomes
                            extinguished on the death of the joint tenant. It is
                                not enough for Mr. Boovariwala to say that the benefit of
                                survivorship is unknown to Mahomedan law. He must go further and
                                satisfy me that it is repugnant to any principle of Mahomedan law. I
                                failed to see why it is opposed to any principle of Mahomedan law or
                                why it is repugnant to the conception of Mahomedan law for parties
                                to agree that they would acquire a particular property and hold it
                                in any particular manner as joint tenants with the benefits of
                                survivorship rather than as tenants in common with the share of each
                                devolving upon his own heirs. …
[8]    I am, therefore, of the opinion that it is
                            permissible to persons governed by Mahomedan law to hold a property as
                            joint tenants with the benefit of survivorship and such an interest in
                            the property is not opposed to or repugnant to Mahomedan law. In this
                            case, in my opinion, the interest of [the deceased] in this property was
                            extinguished on her death in 1944 and there is no interest of hers
                            outstanding in this property to which the plaintiff as her heir can lay
                            a claim.
[emphasis added]
57     
          Mahomed Jusab
                        Abdulla has recently been followed in Azizunissa Abdurrahman Kadri v Jamila Abdul Hussein Sheikh (deceased by her
                        LRs) & Ors 2007 (NOC) 2238 (Bom). There, Anoop V
                    Mohta J rejected the plaintiff’s argument that it was not permissible
                    under Muslim law to hold property as joint tenants with the benefit of
                    survivorship. Such interest in the property, he held, was not opposed to or
                    repugnant to Muslim law.
58     To put these two decisions in the context of
                    the present case, India also has legislation that gives effect to personal law
                    as against the general law. Under the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application
                    Act, 1937 (Act No 26 of 1937), all questions regarding intestate succession
                    of Muslims are governed by Muslim personal laws:
2. Application of Personal Law to Muslims
                        – Notwithstanding any customs or usage to the contrary, in all
                        questions (save questions relating to agricultural land) regarding intestate
                        succession … the rule of decision in cases where the parties are
                        Muslims shall be the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat).
59     It should be noted that in Mahomed Jusab Abdulla, the property was jointly purchased, and
                    therefore neither joint tenant made any “gift” of any interest in
                    the property to the other because each had paid for his and her share. In the
                    present case, the Deceased paid the purchase price of the Property and made a
                    gift of the entire property to 1st Respondent by
                    registering her as a joint tenant with him. Nonetheless, Chagla J did not
                    make a distinction between these two types of transactions, nor have the
                    opinions of the authoritative Muslim jurists.
60     In the present case, the issue we have to
                    decide concerns only real property and not personal property. We have set out
                    the opinions of the different schools of Islam on whether a hibah ruqba of personal property, eg, moneys in a joint account, is valid under Muslim law. This
                    issue is not before us and we therefore express no opinion on it.
61     We now turn to the evidentiary status of a
                        fatwa issued by the Legal Committee of MUIS,
                    whether on its own motion or at the request of any Muslim or of the
                    court.
The fatwas
62     Section 32 of the AMLA provides for the
                    issue and publication of fatwas given by the Legal
                    Committee as constituted under s 31 and also by MUIS. Section 32
                    provides:

Ruling of Legal Committee
                            (Fatwa)


32. —(1) Any person may, by letter
                        addressed to the Secretary, request the Majlis to issue a fatwa or ruling on
                        any point of the Muslim law.
(2)    On receiving any such request, the Secretary shall
                            forthwith submit the same to the chairman of the Legal
                        Committee.
(3)    The Legal Committee shall consider every such
                            request and shall, unless in its opinion the question referred is
                            frivolous or for other good reason ought not to be answered, prepare a
                            draft ruling thereon.
(4)    If such draft ruling is unanimously approved by
                            the Legal Committee or those members thereof present and entitled to
                            vote, the chairman shall on behalf and in the name of the Majlis
                            forthwith issue a ruling in accordance therewith.
(5)    If in any such case the Legal Committee is not
                            unanimous, the question shall be referred to the Majlis, which shall in
                            like manner issue its ruling in accordance with the opinion of the
                            majority of its members.
(6)    The Majlis may at any time of its own motion make
                            and publish any such ruling or determination.
(7)    If in any court any question of the Muslim law
                            falls for decision, and such court requests the opinion of the Majlis on
                            the question, the question shall be referred to the Legal Committee
                            which shall, for and on behalf and in the name of the Majlis, give its
                            opinion thereon in accordance with the opinion of the majority of its
                            members, and certify such opinion to the requesting court.
(8)    For the purposes of subsection (7),
                            “court” includes the Syariah Court constituted under this
                            Act.
63     A fatwa is a
                    ruling on a religious issue in Islam given to any Muslim who asks for it. Its
                    authority as advice or precept depends on the moral authority and standing of
                    the religious leader giving the fatwa. But a
                        fatwa issued on an issue of law is a scholarly
                    opinion on what the Islamic law is on that issue. No fatwa is binding on the party seeking it or to whom it is
                    directed, unlike a ruling of a judge on an issue in a case. For this reason, a
                        fatwa stands in the same position as an expert
                    opinion on any matter before the court and may be accepted in evidence on any
                    issue of Muslim law on the same basis as an expert opinion on the civil law. The
                    authority of that opinion must depend on the authority and learning of the
                    person or institution giving the fatwa.
                    Section 32(7) of the AMLA merely provides that the Legal Committee shall
                    give an opinion on an issue of Muslim law if requested by the court. It does not
                    say that such an opinion is binding on the court if requested by the
                    court.
64     In the present case, the Judge has observed
                    that the 2007 Fatwa was issued by the Legal
                    Committee of MUIS under s 32(1) at the request of the Appellants and not
                    under s 32(7) at the request of the court. The implication of that
                    observation is that it may not be reliable as it would depend on what the facts
                    are or how the question of law is put to MUIS. A similar stance was taken by
                    Thean J in Saniah and MPH Rubin J in Mohamed Ismail where the fatwas were also obtained by one of the parties to the action
                    and not by the court.
65     A fatwa obtained
                    by a private party for the purpose of court proceedings will not ordinarily have
                    the same standing as a fatwa obtained by the court
                    for various reasons. First, there is a likelihood that the party may frame a
                    question based on assumed or hypothetical facts. The 2007 Fatwa given in the present case is a good example. The question
                    (see [7] above) was misleading because it
                    assumed the very question to be decided, ie,
                    whether there was any half share in the Property that was still vested in the
                    Deceased which could pass to the Estate. The 2007 Fatwa was given on that assumption, and it went further to
                    provide a question which the Appellants had not asked, ie, whether the Property was harta
                        sepencarian. The 2007 Fatwa ruled
                    that the Property “is considered as a matrimonial property as the
                    deceased and his wife had jointly owned it”, which is irrelevant as it
                    had not been established that the Deceased was a Malay for the purposes of
                    s 112(3) of the AMLA. Furthermore, the 2007 Fatwa might also be inconsistent with the power of the court
                    under s 112(3) of the AMLA which provides that it is the (civil) court (and
                    not MUIS) which is empowered to make a division of the harta
                        sepencarian in such proportions as the court thinks
                fit.
Fatwa 20 and Fatwa 41
66     Counsel for both parties have referred to two
                        fatwas: Nos 20 and 41, which were posted
                    on the website of MUIS. They were as follows:
Question 20: If a person gives his/her share of the house to the spouse
                        while still living, for example under the joint-tenancy scheme, is this
                        position considered under faraidh?
Answer: A gift that is given during our lifetime and transferred to
                        another party is not considered as one’s asset anymore. Therefore it
                        is not considered as property that is to be distributed in accordance with
                        the Law of Inheritance after one’s death.
41. Does the ruling of joint-tenancy, which gives 50/50 ownership
                        irregardless [sic] of equal contributions from both parties, apply to the
                        tenancy in common scheme?
For tenancy in common it goes back to the original agreement made and the
                        ruling of joint tenancy does not apply to it.
67     It can be seen that what is stated in
                        Fatwa 20 corresponds to the position of a
                    joint tenancy at common law. On the other hand, Fatwa 41 implies that in Muslim law, a joint tenancy connotes a
                    50/50 ownership of the property (which, as will be seen, may not be in accord
                    with the views of the Islamic jurists on hibah
                        ruqba, but Fatwa 41 is no longer
                    relevant as it has been replaced by another fatwa
                    – see [68] below). We note, at this
                    point, that Fatwa 41 has recently been renumbered
                    as “question No. 20” under “Finance Matters” in the
                    “Religious Queries” section of the
                    “Frequently-Asked-Questions” segment of the MUIS website. With
                    respect to Fatwa 20 (quoted in [66] above), the Respondents have argued that it
                    is inconsistent with the 2007 Fatwa which states
                    that the Property is harta sepencarian and,
                    therefore, half of it is considered as inheritance and should be distributed in
                    accordance with faraid. It is not necessary for us
                    to decide this issue. As mentioned earlier, the 2007 Fatwa was given in response to a question from the
                    Appellants’ counsel that was framed on the erroneous assumption that half
                    the Property devolved to the beneficiaries named in the Inheritance Certificate.
                    However, what we must emphasise is that even if Muslim law does not recognise a
                    joint tenancy, it would have no effect on the joint tenancy of the Property in
                    the present case as the applicable law is the general law (including the
                    relevant legislation affecting the ownership of land) (see [21] above). In any event, the application of
                    Muslim law under s 112(1) of the AMLA requires the court to apply Muslim
                    law subject to Malay custom. Obviously, the 2007
                        Fatwa was given on the assumption that the
                    Deceased was a Malay as a division of the harta
                        sepencarian is applicable only to a Malay dying intestate by
                    virtue of s 112(3) of the AMLA.
68     In this connection, we should mention that the
                    English translation (by an interpreter of the Supreme Court) of the latest fatwa
                    posted on the MUIS website,
                    <http://www.muis.gov.sg/cms/oomweb/fatwa.aspx?id=13526&terms
                    =joint+tenancy> (accessed on 17 March 2010), reads as follows:

JOINT
                        TENANCY


Question:
The Fatwa (Legal) Committee is requested to give an explanation on the
                        Fatwa pertaining to Joint Tenancy.

Answer:
As a result of feedback received on problems faced by Muslims
                        who bought property by way of joint-tenancy following the death of a joint
                        owner, and upon taking into consideration the Islamic Law pertaining to this
                        matter, the Fatwa Committee decrees that with regard to the issue of
                        property bought by way of joint-tenancy:
(i)    If no other arrangement or agreement has been
                                made between the joint owners of a property, upon the death of one
                                of the joint owners, the property is not wholly owned by the
                                surviving joint tenant. The surviving joint owner shall only be
                                entitled to half (50%) of the value of the property. This
                                entitlement arises from his/her position as a joint
                            tenant.
The other heirs of the estate of the deceased cannot, however, compel
                            the surviving joint tenant to sell the property until such time as it is
                            suitable for the surviving joint tenant to sell it. At the same time,
                            he/she (that is, the joint-tenant) cannot delay the sale of the property
                            without reasonable grounds as it may encroach on the rights of other
                            beneficiaries.
(ii)   If however, other arrangements or agreements
                                have been made between the joint tenants, either through a
                                “hibah ruqba” (ruqba-gift) or a
                                “nuzriah” (vow) which expressly states that the
                                property is to be given wholly to the surviving joint tenant, in the
                                event of the death of one of the joint tenants, then the entire
                                property shall vest on the surviving joint tenant. This is
                                consistent with the present laws on joint tenancy in
                                Singapore.
The minute was certified on 3 April 2008 (MJF 5 2007-2010)
69     This updated fatwa suggests that if Muslim joint owners of property fail to
                    make any arrangement to deal with the joint property, the surviving tenant is
                    only entitled to 50% of the property. If this fatwa is intended to apply to immovable property in Singapore,
                    it is inconsistent with the decision of the High Court and our decision in the
                    present case. We would emphasise that in the case of immovable property, the
                    right of survivorship applies on the death of a joint tenant and the surviving
                    tenant will become the sole owner of the property. The general law will prevail
                    against Muslim law on this issue. The only way to destroy the right of
                    survivorship is to sever the joint tenancy. We hope that MUIS will take note of
                    our observation.
70     However, the fatwa recognises that the concept of joint tenancy is compatible
                    with a hibah ruqba in Muslim law. This raises the
                    question whether in the case of a joint tenancy of personal property, such as
                    joint bank accounts, the common law on joint tenancy should be modified to suit
                    the circumstances of Muslims. We should however mention that if a Muslim married
                    couple were to open a joint bank account, their relationship with the bank will
                    be governed by the contractual documents applicable to the operation of that
                    account, ie, the general law and not Muslim law.
                    Whether their legal relationship inter se is
                    governed by Muslim law so as to affect the ownership of the account on the death
                    of one of them for the purposes of s 112 of the AMLA is a question that
                    will have to be decided at another time in another case.
The applicability of section 111 of the AMLA
71     The Appellants further submitted that
                    s 111(1) of the AMLA should be construed beyond its express words such that
                    it prohibits a gift of the Property by the device of a joint tenancy. In other
                    words, an inter vivos gift or transaction of land
                    in favour of Muslims to hold as joint tenants should be regarded as a disposal
                    of property by will because the right of survivorship takes effect only on the
                    death of a joint tenant. It is as if the deceased by creating a joint tenancy
                    has made use of the common law to “will” his interest in the
                    property to the surviving joint tenant. This argument is wrong for three
                    reasons: first, it is based on the (erroneous) assumption that the donee does
                    not have a vested interest in the property unless the donor dies first. Second,
                    s 111(1) applies only to a disposal of property by will, and not to
                        inter vivos dispositions. Finally,
                        s 111(2)(a) of the AMLA provides that
                    nothing in that section shall affect the provisions of the Wills Act, other than
                    s 3 thereof. A will executed by a Muslim therefore has to comply with the
                    formalities prescribed by s 6 of the Wills Act which requires a will to be
                    in writing and executed in accordance with s 6(2). Expanding the
                    applicability of s 111(1) of the AMLA to the right of survivorship would
                    negate the formal requirements of a will. We reject this argument.
Was the Deceased a “Malay” person under s 112(3)
                of the AMLA?
72     The final argument of the Appellants is that
                    the Deceased was a Malay person under s 112(3) of the AMLA which provides
                    as follows:
In the case of a Malay dying intestate, the court may make an order for
                        the division of the harta sepencarian or jointly acquired property in such
                        proportions as to the court seems fit.
The Appellants did not advance this argument before the Judge. Perhaps
                    they did not wish to rely on it as it might weaken their argument based on the
                    2007 Fatwa. The expression “a Malay”
                    is not defined in the AMLA. However, the Appellants referred to Art 39A of
                    the Constitution to submit that even though the Deceased was not an ethnic Malay
                    person, s 112(3) of the AMLA applied on the basis that the Deceased, having
                    been born and raised in Singapore, had arguably been assimilated into the
                    majority Malay-Muslim community. The Appellants further relied on the 2007
                        Fatwa which stated that the Property was
                    matrimonial property (harta
                sepencarian).
73     Article 39A of the Constitution is
                    concerned with providing minority representation in Parliament.
                    Article 39A(4) states:
In this Article –
“person belonging to the Malay community” means any person,
                        whether of the Malay race or otherwise, who considers himself to be a member
                        of the Malay community and who is generally accepted as a member of the
                        Malay community by that community[.]
This definition of a “Malay” is repeated in
                    s 27A(8) of the Parliamentary Elections Act (Cap 218, 2007 Rev
                    Ed) for the purpose of giving effect to Art 39A. It may also be noted that
                    Art 152(2) of the Constitution provides that the Government has to
                    “recognise the special position of the Malays, who are the indigenous
                    people of Singapore”. This Article recognises that there is a community
                    of people who can be called Malays, whether they are of the Malay race or
                    otherwise. In contrast, the Malaysian Federal Constitution also defines
                    “Malay” without reference to “race” as “a
                    person who professes the religion of Islam, habitually speaks the Malay
                    language, conforms to Malay custom and was before Merdeka Day born in the
                    Federation or in Singapore …”.
74     Since both Art 39A and s 27A(8) of
                    the Parliamentary Elections Act use the expression “Malay race”, a
                    court may have to interpret the meaning of this expression in an appropriate
                    case arising under these two provisions. The present case arises under
                    s 112(3) of the AMLA which uses the word “Malay” but does not
                    define who a Malay is (see the interesting thesis of Professor Anthony Milner on
                    who the Malays are in his book, “The Malays” (Wiley-Blackwell,
                    2008)). It will certainly include a person who is of the Malay race, however
                    defined, but it is not necessary for us to enter into this issue because the
                    Appellants do not argue that the Deceased was a person of the Malay race. He assuredly was not, as he was of Turkish-Yemeni
                    Arab descent. The Appellants’ argument is that the Deceased was or should
                    be treated as a “person belonging to the Malay community” as he
                    was born in Singapore and a lifelong practising Muslim, and therefore qualified
                    as a Malay under s 112(3) of the AMLA.
75     In our view, this argument also fails because
                    s 112(3) of the AMLA makes reference to the concept of harta sepencarian which is derived from Malay adat, ie, the law and customs of
                    an ethnic group of people inhabiting the Malay Peninsula, the Riau Islands and
                    parts of Sumatra and Kalimantan who call themselves Malays and who follow Malay
                    customs (see Zainoon v Mohamed Zain [1981]
                    2 MLJ 111 (a Singapore Syariah Court case) and the Malaysian cases of
                        Hujah Lijah Binti Jamal v Fatimah Bin Mat Diah
                    [1950] 1 MLJ 63 and Roberts alias Kamarulzaman v Ummi
                        Kalthom [1966] 1 MLJ 163 at 165). Thus, a Malay for the
                    purposes of s 112(3) must at least follow some such customs. In the present
                    case, it is not necessary for us to investigate what customs or cultural
                    practices qualify a person to be a Malay under s 112(3) of the AMLA because
                    the Appellants have adduced no evidence that the Deceased considered himself a
                    member of the Malay community and was generally accepted by that community as a
                    Malay. In the circumstances, s 112(3) does not apply to the
                    Deceased.
Conclusion
76     For the above reasons, we dismiss the appeal
                    with costs and the usual consequential orders. As these are adversarial
                    proceedings and not constructional proceedings arising in the course of the
                    administration of an estate, the Appellants will have to pay the costs of the
                    Respondents from their own funds and not out of the Estate.
Copyright © Government of Singapore.
