


      Ramalingam Ravinthran
      v
      Attorney-General
    [2012] SGCA 2Case Number:Criminal Motion No 60 of 2011Decision Date:10 January 2012Tribunal/Court:Court of AppealCoram:
      Chan Sek Keong CJ; 
      Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA; 
      V K Rajah JA
    Counsel Name(s):
      M Ravi (L F Violet Netto) for the applicant; 
      Mavis Chionh, Teo Guan Siew and Zhuo Wenzhao (Attorney-General's Chambers) for the respondent.
    Parties:
      Ramalingam Ravinthran — 
      Attorney-General
    
10 January 2012Judgment reserved.

        Chan Sek Keong CJ (delivering the judgment of the
                court):
Introduction
1       The applicant, Ramalingam Ravinthran
                    (“the Applicant”), was convicted after a trial before a High Court
                    judge (“the Trial Judge”) of two charges of trafficking in
                    controlled drugs under s 5(1)(a) read with
                    s 5(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2001 Rev Ed)
                    (“the MDA”) (see Public Prosecutor v Ramalingam
                        Ravinthran
                    [2009] SGHC 265 (“Ramalingam
                    (HC)”)). Both charges carried the mandatory death penalty
                    under s 33 of, read with the Second Schedule to, the MDA. The Applicant
                    subsequently appealed to this court, which dismissed his appeal (see Ramalingam Ravinthran v Public
                        Prosecutor [2011] SGCA 14 (“Ramalingam (CA)”)).
2       The Applicant has now applied to this court, by
                    way of Criminal Motion No 60 of 2011 (“this Motion”), to
                    re-open our judgment in Ramalingam (CA) so as to
                    enable him to argue that the prosecution leading to his conviction in Ramalingam (HC) was
                    unconstitutional. The specific ground relied on by the Applicant is the alleged
                    violation of Art 12(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore
                    (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”) which
                    occurred when the Attorney-General, in his capacity as the Public Prosecutor,
                    decided to charge the Applicant with capital offences while charging one Sundar
                    Arujunan (“Sundar”), who was involved in the same criminal
                    enterprise, with non-capital offences. The Applicant seeks the following orders
                    to remedy this alleged breach of Art 12(1): (a) that the capital
                    charges against him be amended to non-capital charges; and (b) that the
                    sentence imposed by the Trial Judge be set aside and replaced with a suitable
                    non-capital sentence, such that there is no difference in punitive treatment
                    between him and Sundar.
Factual background
3       The factual background to this Motion is set out
                    in Ramalingam (HC) and Ramalingam (CA). For present purposes, the material facts are as
                    follows. On 13 July 2006 at around 5.15pm, the Applicant drove his car to
                    Sri Arasakesari Sivan Temple at Sungei Kadut Avenue. He met Sundar in the
                    compound of the temple. Sundar placed a sports bag on the back seat of the
                    Applicant’s car. The Applicant then drove off with Sundar seated in the
                    front passenger seat. After a while, Sundar alighted from the car at a bus stop,
                    and the Applicant drove on towards his destination. Both men were separately
                    arrested shortly afterwards by officers of the Central Narcotics Bureau
                    (“CNB”) in a planned operation. The sports bag in the
                    Applicant’s car was found to contain eight blocks of vegetable matter
                    wrapped in aluminium foil and transparent plastic cling wrap. Analysis done by
                    the Health Sciences Authority showed that the blocks contained 5,560.1g of
                    cannabis and 2,078.3g of cannabis mixture. In statements taken from the
                    Applicant and Sundar that were adduced at the Applicant’s trial, both men
                    admitted to having been previously involved in similar suspicious activities,
                    but claimed that they had no knowledge that the “things” which
                    they had delivered on those previous occasions were drugs.
The charges against the Applicant and Sundar
4       The Applicant and Sundar were charged separately
                    with drug trafficking. Sundar was charged on 20 June 2007 (in Criminal Case
                    No 17 of 2007) with two offences. The first charge against him
                    stated:
[O]n the 13th day of July 2006 at about
                        5.20 p.m., at the Sri Arasakesari Sivan Temple, No. 25 Sungei
                        Kadut Avenue, Singapore, [you] did traffic in a controlled drug specified in
                        Class ‘A’ of the First Schedule to the Misuse of Drugs Act,
                        Chapter 185, to wit, by delivering to one Ramalingam
                            Ravinthran not less than 499.99 grams
                            of vegetable matter which was analysed and
                            found to be cannabis, without any authorisation under the
                        said Act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby committed
                        an offence under section 5(1)(a) and punishable under section 33
                        of the Misuse of Drugs Act, Chapter 185. [emphasis added]
The second charge against Sundar stated:
[O]n the 13thday of July 2006 at about 5.20 p.m., at the Sri
                        Arasakesari Sivan Temple, No. 25 Sungei Kadut Avenue, Singapore, [you]
                        did traffic in a controlled drug specified in Class “A”
                        of the First Schedule to the Misuse of Drugs Act, Chapter 185, to wit,
                            by delivering to one Ramalingam Ravinthran not less than 999.99 grams of vegetable matter
                            which was analysed and found to contain
                            tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol, without any
                        authorisation under the said Act or the regulations made thereunder, and you
                        have thereby committed an offence under section 5(1)(a) and punishable
                        under section 33 of the Misuse of Drugs Act, Chapter 185.
                        [emphasis added]
5       The quantities of controlled drugs stated in the
                    charges against Sundar were just below the
                    threshold at which they would carry the mandatory death penalty on conviction.
                    On 6 July 2007, Sundar pleaded guilty to both charges in the High Court and
                    was sentenced to a total of 20 years’ imprisonment and 24 strokes of the
                    cane.
6       The Applicant was charged on 9 October 2007
                    (in Criminal Case No 29 of 2007), likewise with two offences. In contrast
                    to the charges against Sundar, the quantities of controlled drugs stated in the
                    charges against the Applicant met the threshold
                    which would carry the mandatory death penalty on conviction. The first charge
                    against him stated:
[O]n the 13th day of July 2006 at about 5.40 p.m., in a motorcar
                        bearing registration number SBR 4484S along Pioneer Road, Singapore,
                        [you] did traffic in a controlled drug specified in
                        Class “A” of the First Schedule to the Misuse of Drugs
                        Act, Chapter 185, to wit, by having in your possession for the purpose
                        of trafficking eight blocks containing 5560.1 grams of vegetable matter
                        which was analysed and found to be cannabis, without any authorisation under
                        the said Act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby
                        committed an offence under section 5(1)(a) read with section 5(2)
                        and punishable under section 33 of the Misuse of Drugs Act,
                        Chapter 185.
The second charge against the Applicant stated:
[O]n the 13th day of July 2006 at about 5.40 p.m., in a motorcar
                        bearing registration number SBR 4484S along Pioneer Road, Singapore,
                        [you] did traffic in a controlled drug specified in
                        Class “A” of the First Schedule to the Misuse of Drugs
                        Act, Chapter 185, to wit, by having in your possession for the purpose
                        of trafficking eight blocks containing 2078.3 grams of fragmented
                        vegetable matter which was analysed and found to contain
                        tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol, without any authorisation under the
                        said Act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby committed
                        an offence under section 5(1)(a) read with section 5(2) and
                        punishable under section 33 of the Misuse of Drugs Act,
                        Chapter 185.
7       At the Applicant’s trial, the Prosecution
                    called Sundar as a witness. Although Sundar turned hostile on the witness stand,
                    the Prosecution successfully applied under s 147(3) of the Evidence Act
                    (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed) to admit a previous inconsistent statement which
                    he had made to the CNB and substituted it for his oral evidence. That statement
                    implicated the Applicant as to his knowledge that there was cannabis in the
                    sports bag placed in his car. The Trial Judge convicted the Applicant on the
                    basis of Sundar’s statement as well as the Applicant’s own
                    statements as recorded by various CNB officers.
The Applicant’s judicial review proceedings
8       After the Applicant’s appeal against
                    conviction and sentence was dismissed on 7 September 2010, the Applicant
                    applied (via Originating Summons No 234 of 2011) for leave to commence
                    judicial review proceedings seeking a quashing order to quash his conviction, a
                    prohibiting order to prohibit the Director of Prisons from executing the death
                    sentence against him and an order that the same charges be preferred against him
                    as the charges that were preferred against Sundar. The Applicant’s leave
                    application was heard by a High Court judge as a substantive application. At the
                    hearing, the Applicant withdrew his application for a quashing order. After
                    hearing the parties, the High Court judge dismissed the Applicant’s
                    application for judicial review on 31 May 2011 (see Ramalingam Ravinthran v
                        Attorney-General [2011] 4 SLR 196). The Applicant then
                    filed this Motion on 9 September 2011.
The issues in this Motion
9       This Motion involves two issues – one
                    procedural and the other substantive. The procedural issue is whether this court
                    should hear this Motion at this stage of the proceedings, when the Applicant has
                    already exhausted his right of appeal. The substantive issue is whether, in the
                    circumstances of this case, the Attorney-General violated the Applicant’s
                    constitutional right to equality before the law, as guaranteed by Art 12(1)
                    of the Constitution, by prosecuting him for two capital offences of drug
                    trafficking while prosecuting Sundar for two non-capital offences of drug
                    trafficking, even though both of them were involved in the same criminal
                    enterprise. We deal with these two issues below, beginning with the procedural
                    issue.
The procedural issue: the functus
                    officio principle and the finality principle
Overview of the applicable principles
10     The procedural issue concerns the
                    applicability of two general principles to this case: the principle of functus officio and the principle of finality. The first
                    principle raises the question of whether this court is functus officio and no longer has any jurisdiction to rehear or
                    re-open any issue relating to the Applicant’s conviction and sentence
                        vis-à-vis the charges brought against him (as
                    set out at [6] above). The functus officio principle, as enunciated in Lim Choon Chye v Public Prosecutor [1994]
                    2 SLR(R) 1024 at [8], Abdullah bin A Rahman v Public Prosecutor [1994]
                    2 SLR(R) 1017 at [10] and
                        Vignes s/o Mourthi v Public
                        Prosecutor [2003] 4 SLR(R) 518 at [4]–[8] (which cases will hereafter be called “the Vignes line of decisions”), is that once this
                    court has rendered judgment in an appeal before it, it is functus officio in so far as that appeal is concerned. In
                        Koh Zhan Quan Tony v Public Prosecutor and another
                        motion [2006] 2 SLR(R) 830 (“Tony Koh”), this court held (at [11]–[13]) that the Vignes line of
                    decisions would not apply to a case where the question sought to be raised at
                    the second hearing before it was not concerned with the substantive merits of
                    the case which it decided at the first hearing, but went instead to its
                    jurisdiction to hear that case at the first hearing. For instance, if, at the
                    first hearing before it, the Court of Appeal decided a matter which was not
                    within its jurisdiction, there would be no decision in law on that matter, and,
                    therefore, the court would not have exhausted its jurisdiction (ie, would not be functus
                        officio) vis-à-vis that particular
                    matter (see Tony Koh at [22]).
11     The second principle mentioned in the
                    preceding paragraph –
                    viz, the principle of finality – is broader.
                    The basis underlying this principle is that it is generally in the public
                    interest that court judgments should be final and parties should not be allowed
                    to re-litigate issues which have already been decided by the courts. This
                    principle is expressed by the Latin maxim “interest
                        rei publicae ut
                        sit finis litium”. When it is applied to civil
                    proceedings, it is subject to very narrow exceptions (see Lee
                        Tat Development Pte Ltd v Management Corporation Strata Title Plan
                        No 301 [2009] 1 SLR(R) 875 at [72]–[73]). The finality principle also applies to criminal
                    proceedings. However, in that context, broad exceptions do apply in certain
                    circumstances, even where the offender in question has exhausted his right of
                    appeal to the final appellate court. This was the opinion of this court in
                        Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor [2010]
                    2 SLR 192 (“Yong Vui Kong
                        (Jurisdiction)”).
12     In Yong Vui Kong
                        (Jurisdiction), this court recognised that the principle of
                        functus officio, as laid down in the Vignes line of decisions, was based on the policy
                    considerations underlying the principle of finality. In the criminal context,
                    the functus officio principle is a self-limiting
                    principle applied by this court so as not to open the floodgates to frivolous
                    and unmeritorious applications for previous criminal judgments to be reviewed.
                    However, the relevant statutory provisions governing criminal appeals
                    (previously Pt V of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322,
                    2007 Rev Ed) and now Div 1 of Pt XX of the Criminal Procedure
                    Code 2010 (Act 15 of 2010)) do not expressly state when the court is
                        functus officio.
13     In this light, it was observed in Yong Vui Kong (Jurisdiction) that where this court,
                    being the final appellate court in this jurisdiction, had made a mistake of fact
                    or law which had caused a person to be convicted and punished, it must have the
                    power to correct its own mistake so as to avoid a miscarriage of justice. At
                        [15]–[16] of Yong Vui Kong
                        (Jurisdiction), this court, after discussing (inter alia) the Vignes line of
                    decisions, said (per Chan Sek
                    Keong CJ):
15    We note … that the main justifications of
                            these cases, that the court is functus
                            after it has delivered judgment on the case, rest on the public interest
                            in having finality of litigation and the absence of an express provision
                            in the SCJA [ie, the Supreme Court of
                            Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed)] to empower the court to
                            review its decisions. The first justification is bolstered by the fear
                            of abuse of the judicial process and the floodgates argument (an
                            argument which was also made to the [High Court] [j]udge in this case).
                            In our view, the finality principle should not be applied strictly in
                            criminal cases where the life or liberty of the accused is at stake as
                            it would subvert the true value of the judicial process, which is to
                            ensure, as far as possible, that the guilty are convicted and the
                            innocent are acquitted. The floodgates argument should not be allowed to
                            wash away both the guilty and the innocent. Suppose, in a case where the
                            appellate court dismisses an appeal against conviction and the next day
                            the appellant manages to discover some evidence or a line of authorities
                            that show that he has been wrongly convicted, is the court to say that
                            it is functus and, therefore, the
                            appellant should look to the Executive for a pardon or a clemency? In
                            circumstances where there is sufficient material on which the court can
                            say that there has been a miscarriage of justice, this court should be
                            able to correct such mistakes.
16    Another argument which this court should take into
                            account (but which has never been addressed to the court), is that
                            Art 93 of the Constitution vests the judicial power of Singapore in
                            the Supreme Court. The judicial power is exercisable only where the
                            court has jurisdiction, but where the SCJA does not expressly state when
                            its jurisdiction in a criminal appeal ends, there is no reason for this
                            court to circumscribe its own jurisdiction to render itself incapable of
                            correcting a miscarriage of justice at any time. We have not heard the
                            Public Prosecutor on this point, and it will be necessary to do so in an
                            appropriate case in the future.
The parties’ arguments on the procedural issue
14     Before us, counsel for the Applicant,
                    Mr M Ravi (“Mr Ravi”), relied on [15] of Yong Vui Kong
                        (Jurisdiction) in support of his argument that we should hear
                    this Motion. He also referred to Law Society of Singapore v
                        Tan Guat Neo Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239
                        (“Phyllis Tan”) at [149]
                    (reproduced at [17] below), where the Court
                    of 3 Judges stated that the Attorney-General’s prosecutorial discretion
                    could not be exercised for an extraneous purpose or in breach of constitutional
                    rights.
15     In reply, State Counsel appearing for the
                    Attorney-General, Ms Mavis Chionh (“Ms Chionh”),
                    contended that this court was indeed functus
                        officio after making its decision in Ramalingam (CA), and argued that the Vignes line of decisions was applicable to this Motion as the
                    exception established in Tony Koh was not
                    applicable. Ms Chionh also contended that Yong Vui Kong
                        (Jurisdiction) was not applicable as, unlike the scenario
                    described at [15] of that decision, the
                    Applicant had not raised any new evidence or new argument of law that would show
                    that he had been wrongfully convicted. Ms Chionh further submitted that the
                    Applicant must show a prima facie case of
                    unconstitutionality before this court could re-open its judgment in Ramalingam (CA).
Our decision on the procedural issue
16     As mentioned at [2] above, this Motion is an attempt to re-open a conviction (in
                        Ramalingam (HC)) which has been unsuccessfully
                    appealed against (in Ramalingam (CA)). The
                    substantive issue in this Motion (as set out at [9] above) concerns a constitutional point which the Applicant
                    could have raised during his trial in the High Court and also at the hearing of
                    his appeal against the Trial Judge’s decision. The Applicant had two
                    opportunities to raise that constitutional point, but did not avail himself of
                    either of them. In the circumstances, the Applicant could have had no cause to
                    complain if we had declined to hear this Motion on the basis that he had
                    exhausted all his rights to due process and had ceased to have any standing to
                    challenge before a court of law the legality of his prosecution for the two
                    capital offences set out at [6]
                above.
17     Be that as it may, because this Motion
                    involves capital offences, we decided to hear the Applicant’s arguments on
                    why we should not dismiss this Motion outright and the Prosecution’s
                    response to those arguments. After considering the arguments of the parties, we
                    decided to hear this Motion as the substantive issue in this Motion concerns a
                    constitutional point – namely, the interaction between the prosecutorial
                    discretion in Art 35(8) of the Constitution and the right to equality
                    before the law conferred by Art 12(1) thereof – which, in our view,
                    needs to be examined in greater detail and clarified in the public interest. Our
                    decision (apropos the procedural issue in this Motion) to hear this case accords
                    with our decision in Yong Vui Kong (Jurisdiction),
                    where the need to settle the constitutionality (or otherwise) of the mandatory
                    death penalty for the offence of trafficking in more than 15g of diamorphine was
                    the critical factor behind this court’s decision to hear the
                    applicant’s arguments in that case notwithstanding that he had earlier
                    withdrawn his appeal against his conviction for that offence (see [28] of Yong Vui Kong
                        (Jurisdiction)). In deciding that we would hear this Motion, we
                    also endorsed the following observations made by the Court of 3 Judges in
                        Phyllis Tan at [149] (per Chan CJ):
The discretionary power to prosecute under the Constitution is not
                        absolute. It must be exercised in good faith for the purpose [for which] it
                        is intended, ie, to convict and punish
                        offenders, and not for an extraneous purpose. As the Court of Appeal said in
                            Chng Suan Tze v Minister for Home Affairs
                        [1988] 2 SLR(R) 525 at [86], all legal powers, even a
                        constitutional power, have legal limits. The notion of a subjective or
                        unfettered discretion is contrary to the rule of law. In our view, the
                        exercise of the prosecutorial discretion is subject to judicial review in
                        two situations: first, where the prosecutorial power is abused, ie, where it is exercised in bad faith for an
                        extraneous purpose, and second, where its exercise contravenes
                        constitutional protections and rights (for example, a discriminatory
                        prosecution which results in an accused being deprived of his right to
                        equality under the law and the equal protection of the law under Art 12
                        of the Constitution). Authority for this proposition may be found in
                            Teh Cheng Poh v Public Prosecutor [1979]
                        1 MLJ 50 (“Teh Cheng
                        Poh”). In that case, although the Privy Council recognised
                        that the unconstitutional exercise of prosecutorial discretion could be
                        challenged, it held that there was no material on the
                            facts of that case on which to found an argument that the
                        Attorney-General [of Malaysia] had exercised his discretion unlawfully.
                            Teh Cheng Poh has been followed by the
                        Court of Appeal in two cases, viz, Sim Min Teck v PP [1987] SLR(R) 65 and
                            Thiruselvam s/o
                            Nagaratnam v PP [2001] 1 SLR(R) 362. [emphasis in
                        original]
As stated in this passage, even though the prosecutorial power is a
                    constitutional power under Art 35(8) of the Constitution, it is not immune
                    to judicial correction where it has been exercised arbitrarily or in breach of
                    constitutionally-protected rights. An arbitrary exercise of the prosecutorial
                    power would be ultra vires Art 35(8), while a
                    prosecution in breach of constitutionally-protected rights would be
                    unconstitutional. In intervening in such cases, the court would not be intruding
                    on the prosecutorial power (as stated in Phyllis
                        Tan at [144], which is set out at [43] below).
The substantive issue: the application of Article 12(1) of the
                Constitution in the context of the prosecutorial discretion
The principles established by the authorities
18     Moving now to the substantive issue in this
                    Motion (as described at [9] above), before we
                    consider the parties’ arguments on this issue, it is useful that we
                    examine the principles established in certain cases where Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution was interpreted and applied. These cases consist of the decision in
                        Ong Ah Chuan and another v Public Prosecutor
                    [1979–1980] SLR(R) 710 (“Ong Ah
                        Chuan”), which the Applicant has cited as his main
                    authority in relation to the substantive issue, and a trio of decisions relied
                    upon by the Attorney-General in response, namely, Teh Cheng
                        Poh v Public Prosecutor [1979] 1 MLJ 50
                        (“Teh Cheng Poh”), Sim Min Teck v Public Prosecutor
                    [1987] SLR(R) 65 (“Sim Min
                    Teck”) and Thiruselvam s/o Nagaratnam v Public Prosecutor [2001]
                    1 SLR(R) 362 (“Thiruselvam”). In our view, this examination of the case
                    authorities will show that the Applicant’s case in this Motion, which
                    concerns the interaction and the potential tension between the constitutional
                    prosecutorial power in Art 35(8) and the right to equality before the law
                    under Art 12(1), has novel elements. We should add that even though
                        Ong Ah Chuan, Sim Min
                        Teck and Thiruselvam concern
                    predecessor versions of the Constitution (as defined at [2] above), for ease of discussion, we will likewise refer to
                    these predecessor versions as “the Constitution”.
The decision in Ong Ah Chuan
19     We consider first the decision in Ong Ah Chuan. In that case, the appellants contended
                    that the legislated mandatory sentence of death for trafficking in more than a
                    prescribed amount (viz, 15g) of diamorphine
                    (heroin) was inherently contrary to Art 12(1) of the Constitution. The
                    Privy Council (per Lord Diplock) responded to
                    this argument as follows:
32    … As their Lordships understood the argument
                            presented to them on behalf of the appellants, it was that the mandatory
                            nature of the sentence, in the case of an offence so broadly drawn as
                            that of trafficking created by s 3 of the Drugs Act [ie, the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (Act 5 of
                            1973)], rendered it arbitrary since it debarred the court in punishing
                            offenders from discriminating between them according to their individual
                            blameworthiness. This, it was contended, was arbitrary and not
                            “in accordance with law” as their Lordships have construed
                            that phrase in Art 9(1); alternatively it offends against the
                            principle of equality before the law entrenched in the Constitution by
                            Art 12(1), since it compels the court to condemn to the highest
                            penalty of death an addict who has gratuitously supplied an addict
                            friend with 15g of heroin from his own private store, and to inflict a
                            lesser punishment upon a professional dealer caught selling for
                            distribution to many addicts a total of 14.99g.
…
34    In order to dispose of the appellants’
                            argument their Lordships do not find it necessary to embark upon a broad
                            analysis of what the constitutional requirements of “equality
                            before the law” and “the equal protection of the
                            law” involve in contexts other than that of criminal laws which
                            provide for mandatory penalties or mandatory limits upon penalties to be
                            imposed upon the offenders convicted of particular crimes.
35    All criminal law involves the classification of
                            individuals for the purposes of punishment, since it affects those
                            individuals only in relation to whom there exists a defined set of
                            circumstances – the conduct and, where relevant, the state of mind
                            that constitute the ingredients of an offence. Equality before the law and equal protection of the law require
                                that like should be compared with like. What Art 12(1) of the
                                Constitution assures to the individual is the right to equal
                                treatment with other individuals in similar circumstances. It
                                prohibits laws which require that some individuals within a single
                                class should be treated by way of punishment more harshly than
                                others; it does not forbid discrimination in punitive
                            treatment between one class of individuals and another class in relation
                            to which there is some difference in the circumstances of the offence
                            that has been committed.
…
39    Wherever a criminal law provides for a mandatory
                            sentence for an offence there is a possibility that there may be
                            considerable variation in moral blameworthiness, despite the similarity
                            in legal guilt of offenders upon whom the same mandatory sentence must
                            be passed. In the case of murder, a crime that is often committed in the
                            heat of passion, the likelihood of this is very real: it is perhaps more
                            theoretical than real in the case of large-scale trafficking in drugs, a
                            crime of which the motive is cold calculated greed. But Art 12(1) of the Constitution is not concerned with equal
                                punitive treatment for equal moral blameworthiness; it is concerned
                                with equal punitive treatment for similar legal
                            guilt.
[emphasis added]
20     The above statements were made in the context
                    of criminal statutes which provide for mandatory death sentences. The Privy
                    Council’s statements merely set out the general criteria for determining
                    whether a particular statute of this nature violates the constitutional
                    guarantee of equality before the law. The specific statute under consideration
                    in Ong Ah Chuan, viz, the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (Act 5 of 1973) (“the
                    MDA 1973”), prescribed the mandatory death penalty for trafficking in
                    more than a prescribed quantity of certain controlled drugs. The issue before
                    the Privy Council was whether the relevant provisions of the MDA 1973 were
                    arbitrary in mandating the death penalty for trafficking in 15g or more of
                    heroin, but not for trafficking in less than 15g of heroin. The case was
                        not concerned with the constitutionality of
                    the Attorney-General’s exercise of the prosecutorial discretion (which is
                    the complaint of the Applicant in this Motion). The test of what equality before
                    the law requires is not necessarily the same in both situations.
The decision in Teh Cheng Poh
21     In contrast to Ong Ah
                        Chuan, Teh Cheng Poh (cited at
                        [18] above) directly concerned the
                    constitutionality of an exercise of the prosecutorial discretion vis-à-vis the protection of equality before the law
                    enshrined in Art 8(1) of the Federal Constitution of Malaysia
                    (1970 Reprint) (“the Malaysian Constitution”), which
                    corresponds to Art 12(1) of the Constitution. In that case, the appellant
                    was charged under s 57(1) of the Internal Security Act 1960 (Act 82,
                    1972 Rev Ed) (M’sia) (“the ISA 1960”) with being in
                    unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. At that time, there was another
                    law, viz, the Arms Act 1960 (Act No 21 of
                    1960) (M’sia) (“the Arms Act 1960”) read with the Firearms
                    (Increased Penalties) Act 1971 (Act 37 of 1971) (M’sia) (“the
                    Firearms (Increased Penalties) Act 1971”), under which the appellant
                    could have been charged. The offence under the ISA 1960 was a capital offence,
                    whereas the offence under the Arms Act 1960 read with the Firearms (Increased
                    Penalties) Act 1971 was not. The appellant was prosecuted under the ISA 1960,
                    convicted and sentenced to death. Before the Privy Council, the appellant argued
                    that the Malaysian Attorney-General’s decision to prosecute him for a
                    capital offence was a violation of Art 8(1) of the Malaysian
                    Constitution.
22     The Privy Council rejected this argument. At
                    56 of Teh Cheng Poh, their Lordships (per Lord Diplock) said:
… Under the common law system of administration of criminal justice
                        a prosecuting authority has a discretion whether to institute proceedings at
                        all and, if so, with what offence to charge the accused. Such a discretion
                        is conferred upon the Attorney General of Malaysia by Article 145(3) of
                        the [Malaysian] Constitution …
There are many factors which a prosecuting authority may properly take
                        into account in exercising its discretion as to whether to charge a person
                        at all, or, where the information available to it discloses the ingredients
                        of a greater as well as a lesser offence, as to whether to charge the
                        accused with the greater or the lesser. The existence of those factors to
                        which the prosecuting authority may properly have regard and the relative
                        weight to be attached to each of them may vary enormously between one case
                        and another. All that equality before the law requires,
                            is that the cases of all potential defendants to criminal charges shall
                            be given unbiassed [sic]
                            consideration by the prosecuting authority and that
                            decisions whether or not to prosecute in a particular case for a
                            particular offence should not be dictated by some irrelevant
                            consideration.
If indeed the Attorney General [of Malaysia] was possessed of a discretion
                        to choose between prosecuting the appellant for an offence [under]
                        section 57(1) of the [ISA 1960], or for an offence under the Arms Act
                        [1960] … and the Firearms (Increased Penalties) Act [1971], …
                        there is no material on which to found an argument that
                            in the instant case he exercised it unlawfully. But, in their
                        Lordships’ view, although he had a choice whether to charge the
                        appellant with an offence of unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition
                        at all instead of proceeding with a charge of armed robbery (which was also
                        brought against the appellant but not proceeded with), once he decided to
                        charge the appellant with unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition he
                        had no option but to frame the charge under the [ISA 1960].
[emphasis added]
23     The statements of the Privy Council in this
                    passage on what the constitutional requirement of equality before the law
                    entailed were directed specifically towards the exercise of the prosecutorial
                    discretion. The Privy Council considered the constitutional status of the
                    Malaysian Attorney-General’s prosecutorial discretion under
                    Art 145(3) of the Malaysian Constitution (corresponding to Art 35(8)
                    of the Constitution). In the light of that status, their Lordships found that
                    the protection of equality before the law only required the Malaysian
                    Attorney-General to give unbiased consideration to all offenders in criminal
                    cases, and to be mindful not to take into account irrelevant considerations in
                    exercising his prosecutorial discretion.
24     The Privy Council in Teh
                        Cheng Poh was not addressing a situation where two offenders were
                    involved in the same criminal enterprise (as in the present case). In general,
                    like cases must be treated alike with respect to all offenders involved in the
                    same criminal conduct. If there is evidence that A and B have committed murder,
                    and A is charged with murder, then, all other things being
                        equal, B should be charged with murder as well. Likewise, if the
                    evidence indicates that A and B have committed culpable homicide not amounting
                    to murder, and A is charged with that offence, then (if all other things are
                    equal) B should be charged with the same offence. An unbiased consideration of
                    A’s and B’s respective cases, if the circumstances of the two cases
                    are identical, should lead to the same prosecutorial decision being taken in
                    respect of A and B. This is what Art 12(1) of the Constitution requires in
                    the context of prosecutorial decisions. But, as the Privy Council acknowledged
                    in Teh Cheng Poh (consistent with the established
                    position at common law), the Prosecution is entitled and obliged to take into
                    account many factors in deciding whether A and/or B should be charged with
                    murder or a lesser offence (eg, culpable homicide
                    not amounting to murder) or no offence at all. Relevant factors for the
                    Prosecution’s consideration in making prosecutorial decisions include the
                    available evidence, public interest considerations, the personal circumstances
                    of the offender, the offender’s degree of culpability, etc. Where these factors apply differently to different
                    offenders, this would justify differential treatment between them. The only
                    qualifications stated in Teh Cheng Poh are that
                    there must be no bias on the Prosecution’s part and irrelevant
                    considerations must not be taken into account.
25     In applying the aforesaid criteria to the
                    facts of Teh Cheng Poh, the Privy Council observed
                    (at 56) that “there [was] no material on which to found an argument that
                    in the instant case [the Malaysian Attorney-General] exercised [the
                    prosecutorial discretion] unlawfully”. In other words, the Privy Council
                    stated that a mere allegation that the Malaysian Attorney-General had exercised
                    his prosecutorial power unlawfully, unsupported by evidence, could not engage
                    Art 8(1) of the Malaysian Constitution. Although the actual outcome in
                        Teh Cheng Poh was ultimately based on other
                    grounds, it was implicit in this finding that if the appellant had somehow been
                    able to produce evidence that the Attorney-General of Malaysia had not given
                    unbiased consideration to his case or had taken into account irrelevant
                    considerations in deciding to charge him with a capital offence, Art 8(1)
                    of the Malaysian Constitution would have been infringed.
26     Hence, Teh Cheng
                        Poh stands for the principle that (in our local context) the
                    Attorney-General may not exercise his prosecutorial power under Art 35(8)
                    of the Constitution in breach of Art 12(1) (or, for that matter, in breach
                    of any other fundamental liberty set out in Pt IV of the Constitution)
                    – but, if the offender alleges such a breach has occurred in his case, the
                    burden lies on him to produce evidence of the alleged breach. On the facts of
                        Teh Cheng Poh, unless direct proof of the
                    Prosecution’s decision-making process in the appellant’s case
                    somehow came to light, the appellant would only have been able to show prima facie impropriety by producing evidence that
                    another offender in similar circumstances had been prosecuted for a non-capital
                    offence.
27     That the burden of proof lies on the offender
                    in this regard is a wholly trite proposition that is reflected in s 103(1)
                    of the Evidence Act, which states that “[w]hoever desires any court to
                    give judgment as to any legal right or liability, dependent on the existence of
                    facts which he asserts, must prove that those facts exist”. In
                    constitutional challenges to the prosecutorial discretion based on an alleged
                    breach of one or more of the fundamental liberties enshrined in the
                    Constitution, it is only when enough evidence is adduced to show a prima facie breach that the evidential burden will be
                    shifted to the Attorney-General to justify his prosecutorial
                decision.
28     However, once the offender shows, on the
                    evidence before the court, that there is a prima
                        facie breach of a fundamental liberty (ie, that the Prosecution has a case to answer), the Prosecution
                    will indeed be required to justify its prosecutorial decision to the court. If
                    it fails to do so, it will be found to be in breach of the fundamental liberty
                    concerned. At that stage, the Prosecution will not be able to rely on its
                    discretion under Art 35(8) of the Constitution, without more, as a
                    justification for its prosecutorial decision.
29     It should be noted that the decision in
                        Teh Cheng Poh was concerned with a single
                    offender whose criminal act was an offence under two different statutory regimes
                    which prescribed two different punishments (one capital and the other
                    non-capital). Hence, although the principle established in Teh Cheng Poh (ie, that the
                    Prosecution, in exercising its prosecutorial decision, must give unbiased
                    consideration to all relevant factors with respect to all offenders and must not
                    take into account irrelevant considerations) is applicable to all prosecutions,
                    whether concerning one or several offenders, it does not specifically address
                    the application of Art 12(1) in cases like the present which concern
                    differential treatment of two offenders involved in the same criminal enterprise
                    (in this case, drug trafficking).
The decision in Sim Min Teck
30     The decision in Teh Cheng
                        Poh was followed by this court in Sim Min
                        Teck (cited at [18] above).
                    In that case, the appellant, Sim Min Teck (“Sim”), was charged
                    with murder committed in the course of a robbery and was convicted after a
                    trial. In contrast, his accomplice, Beh Meng Chai (“Beh”), was
                    charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder (to which he pleaded
                    guilty). At the trial, Beh testified that it was Sim and another person, Chng
                    Meng Joo (“Chng”), who had inflicted the injuries that caused the
                    death of one of the victims (see Sim Min Teck at
                        [6]). At the hearing of Sim’s
                    appeal, this court found that there was overwhelming evidence that Sim, Beh and
                    Chng had fatally stabbed the two victims in circumstances which amounted to
                    murder by one or more of them, and that they had done so in furtherance of a
                    common intention to commit armed robbery and to use knives if necessary. On this
                    finding of fact, all three of them could have been liable for
                murder.
31     Sim argued that his prosecution for murder
                    violated Art 12(1) of the Constitution since Beh had been charged with a
                    lesser offence even though he (Sim) and Beh had committed the same criminal acts
                    in furtherance of a common intention. This court rejected the argument. At
                        [9] of Sim Min
                        Teck, this court (per Wee Chong
                    Jin CJ) explained:
… [I]t was contended on behalf of the appellant
                            [ie, Sim] that because Beh had been
                        charged on the same facts with the lesser offence, the appellant had been
                        discriminated against contrary to Art 12(1) of the Constitution
                        … which states that “All persons are equal before the law and
                        entitled to the equal protection of the law”. We rejected this
                        contention. The Attorney-General of Singapore is by Art 35(8) of the
                        Constitution given power, exercisable at his discretion to institute,
                        conduct or discontinue any proceedings for any offence. As was said by
                        Lord Diplock when delivering the judgment of the Privy Council in
                            Teh Cheng Poh … at 56 of the
                        discretion exercisable by the Attorney-General of Malaysia under
                        Art 145(3) of the Malaysian Constitution which is in
                            pari materia with our
                        Art 35(8):
There are many factors which a prosecuting authority may properly take
                            into account in exercising its discretion as to whether to charge a
                            person at all, or, where the information available to it discloses the
                            ingredients of a greater as well as a lesser offence, as to whether to
                            charge the accused with the greater or the lesser. The existence of
                            those factors to which the prosecuting authority may properly have
                            regard and the relative weight to be attached to each of them may vary
                            enormously between one case and another. All that equality before the
                            law requires, is that the cases of all potential defendants to criminal
                            charges shall be given unbiased consideration by the prosecuting
                            authority and that decisions whether or not to prosecute in a particular
                            case for a particular offence should not be dictated by some irrelevant
                            consideration.
32     With respect, this court, in rejecting
                    Sim’s argument that he had been denied equality before the law, did not
                    seem to have recognised that the facts in Sim Min
                        Teck were quite different from those in Teh
                        Cheng Poh – alternatively, if it did recognise the factual
                    differences, it did not regard those differences as important. In our view, the
                    factual situation in Sim Min Teck (in contrast to
                    that in Teh Cheng Poh) called for a deeper
                    analysis of the interaction between the right to equality before the law under
                    Art 12(1) and the prosecutorial power in Art 35(8). Unlike the
                    scenario in Teh Cheng Poh, this court was faced in
                        Sim Min Teck with two apparently equally
                    culpable offenders, one of whom had been charged with and convicted of a more
                    serious (capital) offence than the other. In relying on the passage from 56 of
                        Teh Cheng Poh (as set out in the above quote
                    from [9] of Sim Min
                        Teck), this court should have asked itself whether the evidence
                    before it, including the very fact of the differentiated charges against Sim and
                    Beh, was sufficient to raise a prima facie case of
                    a possible infringement of Art 12(1). This court did not do so, but instead
                    dismissed Sim’s argument by applying the reasoning in Teh Cheng Poh without any regard for the distinguishing facts in
                        Sim Min Teck. It is not clear whether this
                    court, in simply quoting the aforesaid passage from Teh Cheng
                        Poh, was dismissing Sim’s argument because of the width of
                    the Attorney-General’s prosecutorial discretion (which was the reason it
                    actually gave), or because Sim had produced no evidence that the
                    Attorney-General had exercised his prosecutorial discretion unlawfully (which
                    was the reason set out in the third paragraph of the quote from Teh Cheng Poh reproduced at [22] above). It is therefore not possible to tell what the true
                        ratio of Sim Min
                        Teck was, although (as discussed at [78] below) the fact that Beh agreed to give evidence against
                    Sim might well have justified the Attorney-General’s decision to bring
                    different charges against the two men.
The decision in Thiruselvam
33     The next case where Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution was invoked as a defence to a prosecution was Thiruselvam (cited at [18]
                    above). The facts of that case were as follows. In a sting operation, one
                    Katheraven s/o Gopal (“Katheraven”) was arrested after he offered
                    to sell 807.6g of cannabis and 115g of cannabis mixture to an undercover officer
                    from the CNB (“Sgt Andrew”). Prior to the sale, Katheraven
                    had made four successive outgoing calls to the appellant, Thiruselvam s/o
                    Nagaratnam (“Thiruselvam”), on the latter’s pager. After
                    Katheraven’s arrest, Thiruselvam made altogether four calls to
                    Katheraven’s handphone, which were intercepted and answered by a CNB
                    officer. In the course of those calls, Thiruselvam said, “[i]f the thing
                    is taken, the money must be paid” (see Thiruselvam at [6]). The
                    CNB officer arranged to meet Thiruselvam to pay him the money for the drugs.
                    Thiruselvam was arrested on his way to receive the money. Thiruselvam was
                    charged with a capital offence, ie, abetting the
                    trafficking of 807.6g of cannabis (the actual quantity of cannabis found in
                    Katheraven’s possession), while Katheraven was charged with two
                    non-capital offences, one of which was for trafficking in “not more than
                    500g and not less than 300g of cannabis” (see Thiruselvam at [28]).
34     At the trial, Katheraven, having earlier
                    pleaded guilty to the two non-capital charges against him for supplying the
                    drugs to Sgt Andrew, was a witness for the Prosecution (see Thiruselvam at [14]). In his evidence, he completely exonerated Thiruselvam
                    from any involvement in the supply or sale of the drugs. However, the trial
                    judge admitted (pursuant to s 147(3) of the Evidence Act)
                    Katheraven’s voluntary statements which implicated Thiruselvam in the
                    commission of the offence charged and convicted Thiruselvam.
35     Thiruselvam appealed against his conviction on
                    the ground that, inter alia, the capital charge
                    against him infringed Art 12(1) of the Constitution since Katheraven, who
                    was the main offender and therefore at least equally guilty, had been prosecuted
                    for two non-capital charges. The argument was rejected. This court (per L P Thean JA) first noted (at
                        [30]) that “[a] point similar
                    to the one under consideration was decided by the Privy Council in Teh Cheng Poh”, and, further (at [31]), that “[a] more direct authority
                    on the point [was] the case of Sim Min
                    Teck”. Thean JA went on to find as follows (at [32]):
It is true that in Sim Min Teck … the
                        accused was one of the main offenders and the accomplice played a lesser role in the commission of the offence of
                        murder. In the instant case, the position is the
                            reverse: [Thiruselvam] was only an abettor of Katheraven, the
                        person who committed the main offence. To that extent, this case is slightly
                        different from Sim Min Teck. However, this difference is immaterial and does not detract
                            from the weight of that authority. The
                            principle remains the same. The Prosecution has a wide discretion to
                            determine what charge or charges should be preferred against any
                            particular offender, and to proceed on charges of different severity as
                            between different participants of the same criminal acts. In
                        this case, it has a discretion to choose between preferring a charge against
                        [Thiruselvam] for abetment of trafficking in a quantity which carries the
                        capital punishment and preferring one for abetment of trafficking in a
                        quantity which does not. In our judgment, there was no breach of Art 12
                        of the Constitution. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
36     In Thiruselvam,
                    this court, just as it did in Sim Min Teck, merely
                    referred to Teh Cheng Poh and, without any
                    reference to the particular facts of the case before it, applied the general
                    principle that the Prosecution had a wide discretion to determine what charge or
                    charges should be preferred against an offender (see [32] of Thiruselvam). We have already commented earlier (at [32] above) on such an uncritical approach in our
                    discussion of Sim Min Teck. In fact, in Thiruselvam, this court went even further (compared to
                    the approach which it took in Sim Min Teck) and
                    held that the prosecutorial discretion under Art 35(8) of the Constitution
                    was wide enough to entitle the Attorney-General to charge Thiruselvam with a
                    capital offence and Katheraven with two non-capital offences without violating
                    Art 12(1), even though (so this court
                    appeared to have found) Thiruselvam had played a lesser
                        role.
37     In our view, this court’s decision in
                        Thiruselvam would have been difficult to
                    defend if Thiruselvam had indeed played a lesser role. It is contrary to any
                    notion of justice that (all other things being equal) a less culpable offender
                    should be charged with a more serious offence (and subjected to a more serious
                    punishment) than a more culpable offender when both are involved in the same
                    criminal enterprise, especially when one offence is a non-capital offence and
                    the other is a capital offence. If all other things had been equal between
                    Thiruselvam and Katheraven, the Attorney-General should not have exercised his
                    prosecutorial power differentially as between them – to do so would have
                    been prima facie either arbitrary or biased, and
                    therefore contrary to Art 12(1). Once this court found that Thiruselvam was
                    less culpable than Katheraven (which it appeared to have done), if it saw no
                    other legitimate reason for differentiation between the two men, it ought to
                    have found that a prima facie breach of
                    Art 12(1) of the Constitution was made out with respect to
                    Thiruselvam’s prosecution, and it should have required the Prosecution to
                    justify its decision or be found to be in breach of Art 12(1) (following
                    the approach described at [28]
                    above).
38     That said, in our view, the facts in Thiruselvam, if properly evaluated, could have justified
                    the differentiated charging of Thiruselvam and Katheraven. The evidence in that
                    case showed that Thiruselvam had instructed Katheraven to pay him the proceeds
                    from the sale of the drugs upon the successful delivery of those drugs.
                    Thiruselvam was thus either Katheraven’s controller or supplier in
                    relation to the latter’s drug trafficking. If, in this situation,
                    Thiruselvam occupied a higher or more significant position in the supply chain
                    of illegal drugs, then his criminal activities would have been more significant
                    in terms of the potential harm caused to society. In comparison, Katheraven
                    would have been a mere courier. Thus, from a policy perspective, Thiruselvam
                    could be said to have been more culpable an offender than Katheraven in the
                    context of combating drug trafficking in Singapore.
39     In this regard, if the court in Thiruselvam did indeed suggest that Thiruselvam was less
                    culpable than Katheraven because the criminal act of an abettor was less
                    culpable than that of the substantive offender, then the court was, with
                    respect, mistaken because it would be contrary to s 109 of the Penal Code
                    (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed), which provides that the offence of abetment
                    generally carries the same punishment as the substantive offence if there is no
                    express punishment provision in the Penal Code for the abetment offence. In the
                    context of anti-drug trafficking enforcement policy, the abettor in Thiruselvam (viz,
                    Thiruselvam) would have posed a greater danger to the public welfare than the
                    actual drug trafficker (viz, Katheraven). On this
                    basis, that Thiruselvam was charged with an offence carrying a more severe
                    punishment than the punishment for the offences charged against Katheraven could
                    not be said to have been a violation of Art 12(1).
Summary of the authorities
40     We can now summarise the applicability of the
                    four cases which we have examined above to this Motion in the following manner.
                        Ong Ah Chuan is not applicable as it was
                    concerned with the application of Art 12(1) of the Constitution to
                    legislation, and not to the exercise of the prosecutorial discretion. While
                        Teh Cheng Poh did concern the scope of
                    Art 12(1) in the prosecutorial context, it is not directly relevant to the
                    present case as it was concerned with the exercise of the prosecutorial
                    discretion in relation to a single offender whose acts were punishable under two
                    different statutory regimes carrying different punishments. In contrast to
                        Teh Cheng Poh, Sim Min
                        Teck was concerned with the prosecutorial discretion to
                    differentiate between the charges against two offenders who were, in law, liable
                    for the same criminal acts (committed in furtherance of a common intention).
                    However, this court applied Teh Cheng Poh
                    uncritically without considering the material difference between the factual
                    situations in the two cases. Similarly, although Thiruselvam was concerned with a factual situation that was
                    essentially the same as that in Sim Min Teck, this
                    court (just as it did in Sim Min Teck) proceeded
                    on the basis that Teh Cheng Poh, despite being
                    concerned with a different factual scenario, could be directly applied to
                    dispose of the case.
41     It is important to note that in Sim Min Teck, this court did not decide that the
                    Prosecution could never contravene Art 12(1) in exercising its
                    prosecutorial discretion in a particular case. On the contrary, it recognised,
                    by quoting from 56 of Teh Cheng Poh, that there
                    could be such a contravention. In contrast, this court went further in Thiruselvam (as stated above at [36]) and, in so doing, almost appeared to have held that no
                    exercise of the prosecutorial discretion could possibly breach Art 12(1)
                    because of the width of that discretion. In our view, this is not the law (as
                    the Court of 3 Judges stated in Phyllis Tan at
                    [149] (reproduced at [17] above)). If it
                    were the law, the prosecutorial discretion would override the fundamental
                    liberties conferred by Pt IV of the Constitution. This outcome is not
                    acceptable because an exercise of an executive decision-making power, even one
                    with a constitutional status, cannot be allowed to override a fundamental
                    liberty enshrined in the Constitution.
42     In the circumstances, although the four cases
                    discussed above contain some relevant general principles, none of them contains
                    legal reasoning which we can directly apply in determining whether the
                    differentiation between the charges against the Applicant and those against
                    Sundar in the present case is a breach of Art 12(1). We will therefore have
                    to address the substantive issue raised by the Applicant by referring to first
                    principles.
The constitutional status of the prosecutorial power
43     As mentioned earlier, the prosecutorial power
                    is a constitutional power vested in the Attorney-General pursuant to
                    Art 35(8) of the Constitution. It is constitutionally equal in status to
                    the judicial power set out in Art 93. In Phyllis
                        Tan, the Court of 3 Judges referred to the judicial power in
                    Art 93 and the prosecutorial power in Art 35(8), and said at [144]
                        (per Chan CJ):
… These two provisions expressly separate the prosecutorial
                        function from the judicial function, and give equal status to both
                        functions. Hence, both organs have an equal status under the Constitution,
                        and neither may interfere with each other’s functions or intrude into
                        the powers of the other, subject only to the constitutional power of the
                        court to prevent the prosecutorial power from being exercised
                        unconstitutionally. Indeed, this is not even a true
                        “interference” inasmuch as the exercise of a function
                        unconstitutionally is, in effect, not an exercise of that function at all
                        and which it is therefore the duty of the court (pursuant to the
                        Constitution itself) to prevent.
The presumption of constitutionality in relation to the prosecutorial
                power
44     In view of the co-equal status of the two
                    aforesaid constitutional powers, the separation of powers doctrine requires the
                    courts not to interfere with the exercise of the prosecutorial discretion unless
                    it has been exercised unlawfully. The prosecutorial power is part of the
                    executive power, although, under existing constitutional practice, it is
                    independently exercised by the Attorney-General as the Public Prosecutor. In
                    view of his high office, the courts should proceed on the basis that when the
                    Attorney-General initiates a prosecution against an offender (regardless of
                    whether he was acting alone or in concert with other offenders), the
                    Attorney-General does so in accordance with the law. In other words, the courts
                    should presume that the Attorney-General’s prosecutorial decisions are
                    constitutional or lawful until they are shown to be otherwise.
45     This presumption would be consistent with the
                    constitutional standing of the office of Attorney-General. In Yong Vui Kong v Attorney-General [2011] 2 SLR 1189
                        (“Yong Vui Kong (Clemency)”),
                    one of the issues raised before this court was whether the constitutional
                    clemency process was justiciable. In discussing this issue, this court
                    considered the possibility of unconscious bias or inadvertent errors on the part
                    of, inter alios, the Attorney-General in
                    submitting his opinion to the Cabinet under Art 22P(2) of the Constitution
                        vis-à-vis an offender who had been sentenced
                    to death. This court (per Chan CJ) observed
                    at [139] of Yong Vui Kong (Clemency):
Given the high constitutional offices held by these individuals [ie, the persons directly involved in the making of a
                        clemency decision, namely, the trial judge, the presiding judge of the
                        appellate court (if there is an appeal), the Attorney-General, the members
                        of the Cabinet and the President], no court is justified in hypothesising
                        that the trial judge and (where there is an appeal) the presiding judge of
                        the appellate court may write biased or inaccurate reports, or that the
                        Attorney-General may give a spiteful opinion on the offender’s case,
                        or that the Cabinet members and/or the President may be unconsciously
                        prejudiced against the offender or may not give his case full and fair
                        consideration. In my view, until the contrary is shown,
                            the courts, instead of proceeding on such fanciful hypotheses, should
                            proceed on the basis of presumptive legality encapsulated in the maxim
                            “omnia praesumuntur rite esse acta” – all things are presumed to have been done rightly and
                            regularly, ie, in conformity with the
                            law. [emphasis added]
46     Although these observations were not made in
                    the context of prosecutorial decisions, it is our view that they provide
                    additional support for applying a presumption of constitutionality in the
                    prosecutorial context. Given the constitutional status of the Attorney-General,
                    the courts should presume that he acts in the public interest as the Public
                    Prosecutor, and that he acts in accordance with the law when exercising his
                    prosecutorial power. This approach should not be regarded as the courts
                    deferring to the Prosecution. It is, instead, really an application of the
                    established principle that the acts of high officials of state should be
                    accorded a presumption of legality or regularity, especially where such acts are
                    carried out in the exercise of constitutional powers.
47     We might add that as a matter of legal policy,
                    it is not only officials with a constitutional standing who enjoy a presumption
                    of legality for their acts (although the presumption will certainly be stronger
                    in relation to the acts of an official who holds a constitutional office). This
                    can be seen from Howe Yoon Chong v Chief Assessor
                    [1990] 1 SLR(R) 78 (“Howe Yoon
                        Chong”), which concerned the Chief Assessor’s
                    assessment of the annual value of the appellant’s dwelling house at a much
                    higher value than the annual values of other properties in the same area. The
                    appellant argued that this was a violation of Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution. At [13] of Howe Yoon Chong, the Privy Council stated (per Lord Keith of Kinkel):
The question is whether this state of affairs amounted to a
                        contravention of Art 12(1) of the Constitution. Their Lordships were
                        referred to a number of cases in the property tax field in the United States
                        of America, in relation to the equal protection of the law clause in the
                        Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of that country. In Sunday Lake Iron Co v Township of Wakefield
                        247 US 350 (1918) the Supreme Court made the following statement of
                        principle at 352:
The purpose of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
                            is to secure every person within the State’s jurisdiction against
                            intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned by express
                            terms of a statute or by its improper execution through duly constituted
                            agents. And it must be regarded as settled that intentional systematic
                            undervaluation by state officials of other taxable property in the same
                            class contravenes the constitutional right of one taxed upon the full
                            value of his property. Raymond v Chicago Union
                                Traction Co 207 US 20, 35, 37. It is also clear that
                            mere errors of judgment by officials will not support a claim of
                            discrimination. There must be something more – something which in
                            effect amounts to an intentional violation of the essential principle of
                            practical uniformity. The good faith of such officers
                                and the validity of their actions are presumed; when assailed, the
                                burden of proof is upon the complaining party.
[emphasis added]
48     In this connection, we should mention that an
                    analogous presumption applies vis-à-vis the
                    validity of statutes. The courts accord a presumption in favour of the
                    constitutionality of a statute (see Lee Keng Guan and others
                        v Public Prosecutor [1977–1978] SLR(R) 78
                        (“Lee Keng Guan”) at [19] and Public Prosecutor
                        v Taw Cheng Kong [1998] 2 SLR(R) 489 at [60] and [79]–[80]). The basis of this doctrine is that a
                    legislature, when enacting legislation, is presumed to comply with
                    constitutional requirements. In relation to allegations of unlawful
                    discrimination in legislation, the courts “[presume] that the legislature
                    understands and correctly appreciates the need of its own people, that its laws
                    are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its
                    discriminations are based on adequate grounds” (see Lee Keng Guan at [19],
                    quoting from the Indian Supreme Court case of Ram Krishna
                        Dalmia v Justice Tendolkar AIR 1958 SC 538 at 547). In
                    principle, as the Legislature and the Executive are co-equal under the
                    Constitution, the courts should also accord a similar presumption to the
                    exercise of the prosecutorial power as a facet of the executive
                power.
The United States’ approach
49     According a presumption of constitutionality
                    or legality to the exercise of the prosecutorial discretion is also consonant
                    with both the legal policy and the decisions of the United States Federal Courts
                    on the exercise of the prosecutorial power by attorneys of the United States
                    (“United States Attorneys”). The Constitution of the United
                    States, unlike our Constitution (ie, the
                    Constitution as defined at [2] above), does
                    not recognise the prosecutorial power as a constitutional power. Instead, the
                    prosecutorial power is conferred on United States Attorneys by § 35 of the
                    Judiciary Act of 1789 (Cap 20, 1 Stat 73) (US). Nevertheless, the
                    United States Federal Courts have strongly endorsed the principle of judicial
                    non-interference with the prosecutorial discretion of United States Attorneys on
                    the basis of the separation of powers doctrine. For instance, in Inmates of Attica Correctional Facility et al v Nelson
                        A Rockefeller et al 477 F 2d 375 (1973), the United
                    States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit said at 379–380:
The primary ground upon which [the] traditional judicial
                        aversion to compelling prosecutions has been based is the separation of
                        powers doctrine.
“Although as a member of the bar, the attorney for the United
                            States is an officer of the court, he is nevertheless an executive
                            official of the Government, and it is as an officer of the executive
                            department that he exercises a discretion as to whether or not there
                            shall be a prosecution in a particular case. It follows, as an incident
                            of the constitutional separation of powers, that the courts are not to
                            interfere with the free exercise of the discretionary powers of the
                            attorneys of the United States in their control over criminal
                            prosecutions.” United States v. Cox, supra 342 F.2d at 171.
…
Although a leading commentator has criticized this broad view as unsound
                        and incompatible with the normal function of the judiciary in reviewing for
                        abuse or arbitrariness [in] administrative acts that fall within the
                        discretion of executive officers, K. C. Davis, Administrative Law
                        Treatise § 28.16(4) at 982–990 (1970 Supp.), he has also
                        recognized, as have most of the cases cited above, that the manifold
                        imponderables which enter into the prosecutor’s decision to prosecute
                        or not to prosecute make the choice not readily amenable to judicial
                        supervision.
…
Nor is it clear what the judiciary’s role of supervision should be
                        were it to undertake such a review. At what point would the prosecutor be
                        entitled to call a halt to further investigation as unlikely to be
                        productive? What evidentiary standard would be used to decide whether
                        prosecution should be compelled? … What collateral factors would be
                        permissible bases for a decision not to prosecute, [eg], the pendency of another criminal proceeding elsewhere
                        against the same parties? …
These difficult questions engender serious doubts as to the
                        judiciary’s capacity to review and as to the problem of arbitrariness
                        inherent in any judicial decision to order prosecution. …
50     Similarly, in United States
                        v Christopher Lee Armstrong et al 517 US 456 (1996), a case
                    specifically concerning the constitutional prescription of equal protection, the
                    United States Supreme Court said at 464–465:
A selective-prosecution claim asks a court to exercise judicial power over
                        a “special province” of the Executive. Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S. 821, 832, 105 S.Ct.
                        1649, 1656, 84 L.Ed.2d 714 (1985). The Attorney General and United
                        States Attorneys retain “ ‘broad
                        discretion’ ” to enforce the Nation’s criminal laws.
                            Wayte v. United States, 470 U.S. 598,
                        607, 105 S.Ct. 1524, 1530–1531, 84 L.Ed.2d 547 (1985)
                            [(“Wayte”)] (quoting
                            United States v. Goodwin, 457 U.S.
                        368, 380, n. 11, 102 S.Ct. 2485, 2492, n. 11, 73 L.Ed.2d
                        74 (1982)). They have this latitude because they are designated by statute
                        as the President’s delegates to help him discharge his constitutional
                        responsibility to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully
                        executed.” U.S. Const., Art. II, § 3; see 28 U.S.C.
                        [apropos the United States’ judiciary and judicial procedure]
                        §§ 516, 547. As a result, “[t]he presumption of regularity
                        supports” their prosecutorial decisions and, “in the absence
                        of clear evidence to the contrary, courts presume that they have properly
                        discharged their official duties.”
                        United States v. Chemical Foundation, Inc.,
                        272 U.S. 1, 14–15, 47 S.Ct. 1, 6, 71 L.Ed. 131 (1926)
                            [(“Chemical Foundation”)].
                        …
Of course, a prosecutor’s discretion is “subject to
                        constitutional constraints.”
                        United States v. Batchelder, 442 U.S.
                        114, 125, 99 S.Ct. 2198, 2204–2205, 60 L.Ed.2d 755 (1979).
                        One of these constraints, imposed by the equal protection component of the
                        Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, Bolling v.
                            Sharpe, 347 U.S. 497, 500, 74 S.Ct. 693,
                        694–695, 98 L.Ed. 884 (1954), is that the decision whether to
                        prosecute may not be based on “an unjustifiable standard such as
                        race, religion, or other arbitrary classification,”
                        Oyler v. Boles, 368 U.S. 448, 456,
                        82 S.Ct. 501, 506, 7 L.Ed.2d 446 (1962). …
In order to dispel the presumption that a prosecutor has not violated
                        equal protection, a criminal defendant must present “clear evidence
                        to the contrary.”
                        Chemical Foundation, supra, at 14–15, 47 S.Ct., at 6. We explained in
                            Wayte why courts are “properly
                        hesitant to examine the decision whether to prosecute.”
                        470 U.S., at 608, 105 S.Ct., at 1531. Judicial deference to the
                        decisions of these executive officers rests in part on an assessment of the
                        relative competence of prosecutors and courts. “Such factors as the
                        strength of the case, the prosecution’s general deterrence value, the
                        Government’s enforcement priorities, and the case’s relationship
                        to the Government’s overall enforcement plan are not readily
                        susceptible to the kind of analysis the courts are competent to
                        undertake.”
                        Id., at 607, 105 S.Ct., at 1530.
                        …
The limits of the prosecutorial discretion
51     Although the courts are entitled to presume
                    that the prosecutorial power has been properly exercised in a particular case,
                    its exercise is nevertheless subject to legal limits. As a requirement of the
                    rule of law, all legal powers are subject to limits (see Chng
                        Suan Tze v Minister for Home Affairs and others and other appeals
                    [1988] 2 SLR(R) 525 at [86], Phyllis Tan
                    at [149] and Yong Vui Kong (Clemency) at [77]). An inherent limitation on the
                    prosecutorial power is that it may not be exercised arbitrarily, and may only be
                    used for the purpose for which it was granted and not for any extraneous
                    purpose. In the context of Art 12(1) of the Constitution, Art 12(1)
                    merely requires the Attorney-General (in his capacity as the Public Prosecutor)
                    to give unbiased consideration to every offender and to avoid taking into
                    account any irrelevant consideration (see Teh Cheng
                        Poh at 56). These principles apply to every prosecution. In cases involving a single offender, this
                    suffices to ensure that like cases are treated alike.
52     In cases where several offenders are involved
                    in the same or similar offences committed in the same criminal enterprise, the
                    same principles stated above at [51] apply,
                    and the Attorney-General must of course also have regard to Art 12(1). He
                    must compare and treat like with like (see [61] below), and must not unlawfully discriminate against one
                    offender as compared to another. In this regard, the Attorney-General may take
                    into account a myriad of factors in determining whether or not to charge an
                    offender (including his co-offenders in the same criminal enterprise, if any)
                    and, if charges are to be brought, for what offence or offences. These factors
                    include the question of whether there is sufficient evidence against the
                    offender and his co-offenders (if any), their personal circumstances, the
                    willingness of one offender to testify against his co-offenders and other policy
                    factors. Where relevant, these factors may justify offenders in the same
                    criminal enterprise being prosecuted differently.
53     The Attorney-General is the custodian of the
                    prosecutorial power. He uses it to enforce the criminal law not for its own
                    sake, but for the greater good of society, ie, to
                    maintain law and order as well as to uphold the rule of law. Offences are
                    committed by all kinds of people in all kinds of circumstances. It is not the
                    policy of the law under our legal system that all offenders must be prosecuted,
                    regardless of the circumstances in which they have committed offences.
                    Furthermore, not all offences are provable in a court of law. It is not
                    necessarily in the public interest that every offender must be prosecuted, or
                    that an offender must be prosecuted for the most serious possible offence
                    available in the statute book. Conversely, while the public interest does not
                    require the Attorney-General to prosecute any and all persons who may be guilty
                    of a crime, he cannot decide at his own whim and fancy who should or should not
                    be prosecuted, and what offence or offences a particular offender should be
                    prosecuted for. The Attorney-General’s final decision will be constrained
                    by what the public interest requires.
The parties’ arguments on the substantive issue
54     With the foregoing principles in mind, we will
                    now examine the arguments of the parties in this Motion in relation to whether
                    or not Art 12(1) of the Constitution was breached in the present
                    case.
The Applicant’s case
55     In his written submissions, Mr Ravi
                    advanced three arguments in support of this Motion. In his oral submissions
                    before us, Mr Ravi withdrew two of those arguments. The first withdrawn
                    argument was that the Attorney-General had a duty, by reason of Art 9 of
                    the Constitution, to give reasons for his decision to charge the Applicant with
                    the capital offences set out at [6] above as
                    he (the Attorney-General) was the last
                        “decision-maker”[note: 1] in the realm of
                    sentencing where there was a legislated mandatory death penalty. The second
                    withdrawn argument was that the Applicant had a justifiable sense of grievance
                    in that, by reason of the parity principle in sentencing, he should not have
                    been charged and sentenced differently from Sundar (who was equally culpable as
                    him).
56     In the circumstances, we only need to consider
                    the Applicant’s remaining argument, which dealt with Art 12(1)
                    proper. This, as pleaded in Mr Ravi’s oral submissions, was that the
                    decision of this court in Thiruselvam was no
                    longer good law and should not be followed as it was inconsistent with the Privy
                    Council’s ruling in Ong Ah Chuan at
                        [35] and [39] on the scope of Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution (here, Mr Ravi specifically referred to the italicised parts
                    of the paragraphs quoted at [19] above).
                    Alternatively, Mr Ravi sought to distinguish Thiruselvam on the ground that in that case, Katheraven and
                    Thiruselvam were charged with different offences (ie, drug trafficking and abetment of drug trafficking
                    respectively), whereas in the present case, the Applicant and Sundar were
                    charged with identical offences of drug trafficking, save for the quantity of
                    drugs involved.
57     Mr Ravi further argued that in the
                    present case, it was patently irrational for the Prosecution to have charged
                    Sundar with trafficking in a lesser amount of drugs than the amount which he had
                    actually delivered to the Applicant because doing so “defie[d] the
                    physical laws of nature”.[note: 2] In so doing, Mr Ravi contended,
                    the Prosecution ignored reality, or rather, created its own reality, in order to
                    reduce the gravity of the charges against Sundar and, correspondingly, the
                    severity of the punishment he would face. Such a decision, it was argued, could
                    not be within the legitimate discretion of the Attorney-General, wide though the
                    prosecutorial discretion might be.
58     Additionally, Mr Ravi contended that the
                    Applicant’s culpability in the commission of the criminal enterprise in
                    the present case was not greater than that of Sundar because Sundar had
                    delivered the drugs to the Applicant and should therefore be treated as the
                    principal offender. It was argued that even if Sundar were not treated as the
                    principal offender, he and the Applicant were at the very least of equal
                    blameworthiness. Alternatively, Mr Ravi contended that the
                    Applicant’s role in transporting the drugs was not instrumental to the
                    success of the criminal enterprise as Sundar’s supplier could have found
                    someone else to transport Sundar and, in turn, the drugs.
The Attorney-General’s case 
59     The Attorney-General did not join issue with
                    Mr Ravi’s contentions concerning the Applicant’s and
                    Sundar’s relative blameworthiness in the trafficking of the drugs. State
                    Counsel Ms Chionh, however, submitted that Ong Ah
                        Chuan was decided in a different context and was not applicable
                    to the Applicant’s case. She contended that Teh Cheng
                        Poh, Sim Min Teck and Thiruselvam were the relevant authorities on the
                    substantive issue raised by the Applicant, and that the decisions in the latter
                    two cases foreclosed any argument that the prosecutorial decision in the present
                    case was an infringement of Art 12(1) of the Constitution.
Our decision on the substantive issue
The applicability of Ong Ah Chuan
60     We accept the Attorney-General’s
                    argument that Ong Ah Chuan can be distinguished
                    from the present case. As we discussed above at [20], Ong Ah Chuan was concerned
                    with the constitutionality of certain provisions of the MDA 1973, and not with
                    any issue relating to the prosecutorial discretion. However, in our view, there
                    are certain observations in Ong Ah Chuan on what
                    Art 12(1) requires in the context of legislation which, in their essence,
                    are also applicable to prosecutorial decisions.
61     The Privy Council stated in Ong Ah Chuan at [35]
                    that “[e]quality before the law and equal protection of the law
                    require[d] that like should be compared with like”. We recognise this as
                    a general principle under Art 12(1) that applies to all acts of state,
                    whether legislative or executive. Since both the exercise of the legislative
                    power and the exercise of the executive power are subject to judicial review,
                    the same should apply to the exercise of the prosecutorial power because it is
                    merely a facet of the executive power (as stated at [44] above). In enacting penal legislation that classifies
                    offenders for the purposes of punishment, Parliament must not violate
                    Art 12(1), which requires that “like should be compared with
                    like” (see Ong Ah Chuan at [35]). Similarly, the Attorney-General is
                    obliged to compare like with like in deciding whether or not to differentiate
                    between the charges against different offenders involved in the same criminal
                    transaction (the issue arising in Sim Min Teck,
                        Thiruselvam and the present case).
                    Nevertheless, it is clear that the application of this very general principle in
                    the prosecutorial domain is different from its
                    application in the legislative
                domain.
62     In the context of penal legislation, the Privy
                    Council stated (at [39] of Ong Ah Chuan) that “Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution [was] not concerned with equal punitive treatment for equal moral
                    blameworthiness; it [was] concerned with equal punitive treatment for similar
                    legal guilt”. What a class of offenders defined in penal legislation have
                    in common is that they all fulfil the specified ingredients of the same criminal
                    offence. Within this class, there may be substantial variations in moral
                    blameworthiness among the offenders. The fact that penal legislation does not
                    distinguish between offenders within the same class based on such moral
                    differences does not in itself render such legislation in breach of
                    Art 12(1).
63     In contrast, in the context of the
                    prosecutorial power, the Prosecution is obliged to consider, in addition to the
                    legal guilt of the offender, his moral blameworthiness, the gravity of the harm
                    caused to the public welfare by his criminal activity, and a myriad of other
                    factors, including whether there is sufficient evidence against a particular
                    offender, whether the offender is willing to co-operate with the law enforcement
                    authorities in providing intelligence, whether one offender is willing to
                    testify against his co-offenders, and so on – up to and including the
                    possibility of showing some degree of compassion in certain cases. Teh Cheng Poh acknowledged this distinctive feature of
                    the prosecutorial discretion and set out a specific formulation for the
                    application of Art 12(1) to prosecutorial decisions (which we explained at
                        [24] above).
The Applicant’s other arguments
64     Having regard to these matters, we are unable
                    to accept the Applicant’s alternative argument that Thiruselvam should be distinguished on the basis that while the
                    co-offenders in that case were charged with different offences (viz, abetment of drug trafficking and drug trafficking),
                    in the present case, they were both charged with drug trafficking, but with the
                    charges against one offender (viz, Sundar) based
                    on a quantity of drugs much less than the actual quantity of drugs trafficked
                    (as forensically determined) (see [56]–[57] above). In
                    our view, there is no meaningful distinction between the scenario in Thiruselvam and that in the present case as the
                    underlying prosecutorial decision in each case was the same. On the facts of
                        Thiruselvam, Katheraven was, like Sundar in
                    this case, charged with offences based on a quantity of drugs less than the
                    actual quantity of drugs trafficked. In substance,
                        Thiruselvam and the present case (and, for
                    that matter, Sim Min Teck) are all concerned with
                    the Prosecution charging two offenders involved in the same criminal acts with
                    offences of unequal gravity. Article 12(1) would apply to all of these
                    cases in exactly the same way.
65     With regard to the Applicant’s argument
                    that the prosecutorial discretion cannot and may not extend to contradicting the
                    scientific fact that a specific set of drugs can only have one quantification in
                    weight (see [57] above), we note the
                    established practice that whenever the Prosecution decides to prefer a less
                    serious drug trafficking charge against an offender, its practice is to specify
                    the quantity of drugs involved as “not less than” a certain
                    quantity. This formulation is, of course, expressly designed to bring the charge
                    under the applicable sentencing scale prescribed in the Second Schedule to the
                    MDA (in words similar to the statutory language used to define the different
                    sentencing scales according to different quantities of drugs). In this way, the
                    formulation used by the Prosecution, despite being somewhat artificial and
                    intended to describe a quantity of drugs other than the forensically-established
                    quantity, permits two offenders trafficking in the same quantity of drugs to be
                    charged with different offences carrying different punishments. In doing so, the
                    Prosecution is not denying any scientific fact, but is instead simply reducing
                    the quantity of drugs specified in the charge against one offender in order to
                    give effect to its decision to charge that offender differently from his
                    co-offender. The crucial issue is whether a decision of this nature is within
                    the limits of the prosecutorial discretion accorded to the Attorney-General
                    under the law. In our view, provided that such a decision is made for legitimate
                    reasons, it is and has always been permitted under the common law, and
                    Art 35(8) of the Constitution has merely incorporated that
                position.
Application of the requirement of evidence to the present
                facts
66     The Applicant’s case on the substantive
                    issue in this Motion is that the Prosecution’s differentiation between the
                    charges against him and the charges against Sundar was a breach of
                    Art 12(1) because Sundar was either: (a) more culpable, or (b) at
                    the very least, equally culpable in the commission of the criminal enterprise in
                    the present case (referred to hereafter as “premise (a)” and
                    “premise (b)” respectively for ease of discussion). Vis-à-vis premise (a), it was argued that the
                    Prosecution’s decision to bring more serious charges against the Applicant
                    even though he was less culpable than Sundar was outright and unlawful
                    discrimination against the Applicant, and vis-à-vis premise (b), it was argued that the Prosecution
                    had not treated like cases alike. Mr Ravi also insisted that the
                    Applicant’s case on the substantive issue was based purely on the
                    Applicant’s constitutional right to equality before the law. He expressly
                    disclaimed any suggestion that the Applicant’s complaint of unlawful
                    discrimination would not have arisen if Sundar had been charged with the same
                    capital offences as the Applicant.
67     Mr Ravi did not elaborate on or explain
                    the legal basis of the aforesaid disclaimer, but it would appear to rest, where
                    premise (a) is concerned, on the basis that because Sundar was more
                    culpable than the Applicant, Sundar should also have been charged with capital
                    offences and, further, the Applicant should have been charged with less serious
                    offences so as to reflect Sundar’s greater culpability. If this were not
                    the basis of Mr Ravi’s disclaimer, then we are unable to find any
                    sound legal basis for it. Assuming that Mr Ravi’s disclaimer does
                    indeed rest on the aforesaid basis where premise (a) is concerned, we find
                    that this argument has no merit as, on the evidence, the Applicant was not less
                    culpable than Sundar (see [73]
                    below).
68     With regard to premise (b), we are of the
                    view that if Sundar had been charged with the same capital offences as the
                    Applicant, this Motion could not have been brought because the Applicant would
                    have had no cause whatever to claim that he had been discriminated against
                    contrary to Art 12(1). Although (as just mentioned) Mr Ravi has also
                    disclaimed arguing, if premise (b) applies, that Sundar should have been
                    charged with the same capital offences as the Applicant in order to satisfy the
                    requirements of Art 12(1), Mr Ravi has in fact (whether unwittingly or
                    otherwise) made this very argument. This is evident from the way in which
                    Mr Ravi has crafted his case on unlawful discrimination. He has not
                    suggested that the Applicant was wrongly convicted of the two capital offences
                    with which he was charged. Therefore, implicit in Mr Ravi’s case on
                    unlawful discrimination (assuming premise (b) applies) is the contention
                    that both the Applicant and Sundar should have been charged with either the same
                    capital offences or the same non-capital offences (as the case may be), and that
                    the Prosecution infringed Art 12(1) by differentiating between the charges
                    against the two men as there was no legitimate reason for such
                    differentiation.
69     In respect of both premise (a) and
                    premise (b), the Applicant bears the burden of establishing a prima facie case that the Prosecution infringed
                    Art 12(1) in charging him but not Sundar with capital offences even though
                    he was less culpable than Sundar (see our discussion of Teh
                        Cheng Poh at [26] above). A
                    mere allegation of unlawful discrimination is insufficient to invoke the
                    intervention of the court to review (or cause to be reviewed) his prosecution
                    for the capital offences set out at [6]
                    above, in contrast to the non-capital offences which Sundar was prosecuted for.
                    In Teh Cheng Poh, the fact that the appellant was
                    charged with a capital offence under one statutory regime, rather than with a
                    non-capital offence under an alternative applicable statutory regime, was not
                    sufficient to show that he had been unlawfully discriminated against compared
                    with all other offenders in the same situation. In the circumstances of that
                    case, it was virtually impossible for the appellant to show a prima facie case of discrimination without producing evidence
                    that, on similar facts, another offender had been charged with the alternative
                    non-capital offence (see [26] above), and
                    even if the appellant had succeeded in establishing a prima
                        facie case against the Prosecution, that prima
                        facie case would have remained rebuttable by the
                    Prosecution.
70     Although in Sim Min
                        Teck, this court applied the principles laid down in Teh Cheng Poh in an ambiguous fashion (see [32] above), we agree that the interpretation
                    given by Teh Cheng Poh to the Malaysian equivalent
                    of Art 12(1) of the Constitution applies to the facts in Sim Min Teck and also to the facts in the present case. Applying
                    that interpretation, on the facts of the present case, the Applicant must
                    specifically produce prima facie evidence of bias
                    or the taking into account of irrelevant considerations by the Attorney-General
                    in differentiating, pursuant to his prosecutorial discretion, between the
                    charges against the Applicant and the charges against Sundar. In this regard,
                    the mere differentiation of charges between co-offenders, even between those of
                    equal guilt, is not, per se, sufficient to
                    constitute prima facie evidence of bias or the
                    taking into account of irrelevant considerations that breaches Art 12(1).
                    Differentiation between offenders of equal guilt can be legitimately undertaken
                    for many reasons and based on the consideration of many factors (see [63] above). It is for the offender who complains
                    of a breach of Art 12(1) to prove that there are no valid grounds for such
                    differentiation. In the absence of proof by the offender, the court should not
                    presume that there are no valid grounds in this regard.
71     Given that there are many legitimate reasons
                    for the Prosecution to differentiate between the charges brought against
                    different offenders involved in the same criminal enterprise, such
                    differentiation per se does not necessarily mean
                    that the Prosecution has not given unbiased consideration to the offender or
                    offenders in question, or that the Prosecution has taken into account irrelevant
                    considerations. Put another way, such differentiation, without more, does not
                    raise an inference of breach of Art 12(1). Rather, in the absence of
                        prima facie evidence to the contrary, the
                    inference would be that the Prosecution has based its differentiation on
                    relevant considerations. This conclusion does not mean that an aggrieved
                    offender can never prove a case of unlawful discrimination. Such a case may be
                    self-evident on the facts of a particular case (for example, where a less
                    culpable offender is charged with a more serious offence while his more culpable
                    co-offender is charged with a less serious offence, when there are no other
                    facts to show a lawful differentiation between their respective
                charges).
72     A further reason for our decision (viz, that differentiation of the type outlined in the
                    preceding paragraph is not in itself evidence of breach of Art 12(1)) lies
                    in the presumption of constitutionality apropos the Attorney-General’s
                    exercise of the prosecutorial power. The presumption is that in prosecuting an
                    offender or offenders, the Attorney-General acts in the public interest and does
                    not abuse his prosecutorial power (see [44]
                    and [46] above). As we stated earlier, the
                    Attorney-General has an obligation to use the prosecutorial power to enforce the
                    criminal law not as an end in itself, but for the greater good of society (see
                        [53] above), and it can be presumed that
                    he normally exercises his discretion with that purpose in mind.
73     In the circumstances, we are of the view that
                    this Motion fails as: (a) the Applicant has not produced any evidence to
                    prove a prima facie case of a violation of
                    Art 12(1); and (b) in any event, the evidence on record is
                    insufficient to rebut the presumption of constitutionality with regard to the
                    Attorney-General’s decision to prosecute the Applicant for capital
                    offences rather than for non-capital offences (as in the case of Sundar).
                    Moreover, in our view, the evidence does not show that Sundar was more culpable
                    than the Applicant in relation to their respective drug trafficking offences. At
                    the highest, they could be said to be of equal culpability and/or moral
                    blameworthiness in the trafficking of controlled drugs. That, in itself, is not
                    sufficient to rebut the presumption of constitutionality vis-à-vis the Attorney-General’s decision to prefer the
                    charges which were brought against, respectively, the Applicant and Sundar. In
                    this connection, we do not accept the Applicant’s argument that he was not
                    instrumental in the commission of the offences which he was charged with because
                    Sundar’s supplier could have used another person to receive the drugs from
                    Sundar. The fact remains that the Applicant received those drugs for the
                    purposes of trafficking, which offence he carried out before he was
                    arrested.
Whether the Attorney-General has to disclose the reasons for his
                prosecutorial decisions
74     For the sake of completeness, it is necessary
                    for us to say a few words on the Attorney-General’s position (which he
                    steadfastly held in the present case) that he has no general obligation to
                    disclose his reasons for making a particular prosecutorial decision, even though
                    Mr Ravi has (as mentioned at [55]
                    above) withdrawn his argument to the contrary. We accept the
                    Attorney-General’s position, which reflects the English position at common
                    law (see Regina v Secretary of State for the Home Department,
                        Ex parte Doody [1994]
                    1 AC 531 at 564E).
75     In support of his (now withdrawn) argument
                    that the Attorney-General has a general obligation to disclose the reasons for
                    his prosecutorial decisions, Mr Ravi referred to Regina
                        v Director of Public Prosecutions, Ex parte Manning and another
                    [2001] QB 330 (“Ex parte
                    Manning”). In that case, the Director of Public Prosecutions
                    of the UK (“the Director of Public Prosecutions”) declined to
                    prosecute a prison officer (“N”) in connection with the death of
                    the applicants’ brother (“the victim”) while in remand. The
                    evidence showed that the victim’s death resulted from the manner in which
                    N held his head to restrain him during a violent altercation, and the jury
                    returned a verdict of unlawful killing at the inquest.
76     The court (per
                    Lord Bingham of Cornhill CJ) held (at [33]) that although, under English law, there was no absolute
                    obligation on the part of the Director of Public Prosecutions to give reasons
                    for a decision not to prosecute, since the right to life was the most
                    fundamental of all human rights and since the death of a person in the
                    State’s custody resulting from violence inflicted by the State’s
                    agents necessarily aroused profound concern, the Director of Public Prosecutions
                    would be expected, in the absence of compelling grounds to
                        the contrary, to give reasons for his decision not to prosecute N
                    in those circumstances. In that regard, in order to meet the concerns of the
                    applicants, the court examined the review note on the case prepared by a
                    specialist caseworker in the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service. The review
                    note, after setting out the factors which were deemed to be relevant, concluded
                    that there was insufficient evidence to justify any criminal prosecution of N.
                    The court found (at [41]) that the review
                    note did not address or resolve five points against N which ought to have been
                    taken into account, and accordingly quashed the decision of the Director of
                    Public Prosecutions not to prosecute N. The court concluded its judgment by
                    emphasising (at [42]):
… [T]he effect of this decision is not to require the Director [of
                        Public Prosecutions] to prosecute. It is to require reconsideration of the
                        decision whether or not to prosecute. On the likely or proper outcome of
                        that reconsideration we express no opinion at all.
77     Given that in the present case, both the
                    Applicant and Sundar were prosecuted for and convicted of the drug trafficking
                    offences which they committed, the decision in Ex parte
                        Manning is distinguishable on the facts. Nothing in the present
                    case can be said to raise any profound concern as to whether the Applicant was
                    wrongly convicted of the offences with which he was charged. As observed by the
                    Prosecution, in this Motion, the Applicant is not protesting that he was
                    wrongfully convicted. Instead, his case is that he
                    was wrongfully prosecuted because Sundar, although
                    prosecuted for the same criminal enterprise, was charged with offences that did
                    not attract capital punishment, in contrast to the capital charges brought
                    against the Applicant. Given the nature and width of the prosecutorial
                    discretion, coupled with the fact that the Applicant did not avail himself of
                    the two opportunities which he had to raise the issue that the Prosecution
                    violated Art 12(1) in charging him, but not Sundar, with capital offences,
                    there cannot be any compelling grounds for this court to now direct the
                    Prosecution, at this stage of the proceedings, to explain its reasons for
                    deciding to prosecute the Applicant and Sundar for offences carrying different
                    punishments.
78     Furthermore, given the manifold factors that
                    the Attorney-General is entitled to take into account in making a prosecutorial
                    decision, it would be wholly unrealistic for this court to proceed on the basis
                    that the Attorney-General would be unable to point to any relevant consideration
                    to explain his prosecutorial decisions vis-à-vis
                    the Applicant and Sundar respectively. Indeed, it is not difficult to discern a
                    valid consideration in the present case. It is that Sundar was a prosecution
                    witness against the Applicant at the trial in the High Court. The willingness of
                    an offender to serve as a prosecution witness against his co-offender is the
                    common thread that runs through Sim Min Teck,
                        Thiruselvam and the present case, in which
                    Sim, Thiruselvam and the Applicant respectively complained of a violation of
                    Art 12(1) (in this regard, we note that in Thiruselvam, Katheraven turned hostile and tried,
                    unsuccessfully, to exonerate Thiruselvam from any role in the criminal
                    enterprise in question, just as Sundar did in the present case (see [7] above)). It is a common and well-known practice
                    for the Prosecution to take into account an offender’s willingness to
                    testify against his co-offender when deciding what charges to bring against the
                    offender as compared to his co-offender. Of course, we accept that what we have
                    just said may be pure speculation in the present case since the Prosecution
                    remained silent on the issue of why it differentiated between the charges
                    against the Applicant and those against Sundar. Nevertheless, it does not
                    detract from the point that Sundar’s willingness to give evidence for the
                    Prosecution (notwithstanding his subsequent about-turn on the witness stand) was
                    a legitimate factor for the Prosecution to have taken into account in deciding
                    to prosecute Sundar for non-capital offences; there could, of course, have been
                    other valid factors as well.
Conclusion
79     For the reasons stated above, this Motion is
                    dismissed.
[note: 1]See
                                para 27 of the Applicant’s skeletal arguments filed on
                                29 October 2011 (“the Applicant’s Skeletal
                                Arguments”).[note: 2]See
                                para 41 of the Applicant’s Skeletal
                            Arguments.Copyright © Government of Singapore.
