


      Shadrake Alan
      v
      Attorney-General
    [2011] SGCA 26Case Number:Civil Appeal No 212 of 2010Decision Date:27 May 2011Tribunal/Court:Court of AppealCoram:
      Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA; 
      Lai Siu Chiu J; 
      Philip Pillai J
    Counsel Name(s):
      Ravi s/o Madasamy (LF Violet Netto) for the appellant; 
      David Chong Gek Sian SC and Lim Sai Nei (Attorney-General's Chambers) for the respondent.
    Parties:
      Shadrake Alan — 
      Attorney-General
    
[LawNet Editorial Note: The decisions from which this appeal arose are reported at [2011] 2 SLR 445 and [2011] 2 SLR 506.]
        
27 May 2011Judgment reserved.

        Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA (delivering the judgment of the
                court):
Introduction
1       This is an appeal against the decisions of the
                    trial judge (“the Judge”) in Attorney-General v
                        Shadrake Alan [2011] 2 SLR 445 (“Shadrake 1”) and Attorney-General
                        v Shadrake Alan [2011] 2 SLR 506 (“Shadrake 2”). In Shadrake 1, the Judge found Mr Alan Shadrake
                    (“the Appellant”) in contempt of court for eleven of the fourteen
                    impugned statements. In Shadrake 2, the Judge
                    sentenced the Appellant to six weeks’ imprisonment and a fine of $20,000
                    (in default of which, two weeks’ imprisonment, to run consecutively to the
                    first term of imprisonment).
2       The present appeal raises – in some
                    instances for the very first time before this court – important issues
                    relating to the law of contempt which will need to be clarified before the
                    relevant principles are applied to the facts. Foremost amongst these issues are
                    the fundamental ones relating to the test for
                        liability for contempt of court on the ground of scandalising the
                    judiciary (“scandalising contempt”) as well as what the Judge
                    characterised as the defences to scandalising
                    contempt.
The factual background
3       This case arose from an application by the
                    Attorney-General (“the Respondent”) to commit the Appellant, the
                    author of Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore Justice in the
                        Dock (Strategic Information and Research Development Centre,
                    2010) (“the book”), for contempt of court in relation to certain
                    passages contained in the book.
The decision below
The decision on liability
4       In the court below, the Judge first undertook an
                    extensive and comprehensive survey of the Singapore and Commonwealth case law on
                    the applicable test for liability for scandalising contempt.
5       In the result, the Judge departed from previous
                    decisions of the Singapore High Court with regard to the test for the actus reus in cases of scandalising contempt. The Judge
                    did so in holding that the “real risk” test (viz, that the impugned statement must pose a real risk of
                    undermining public confidence in the administration of justice before it is held
                    to be contemptuous), in contradistinction to the “inherent
                    tendency” test, was to be applied in Singapore (see Shadrake 1 at [50]).
6       In so far as the test for mens rea was concerned, the Judge held that the only mens rea needed for finding liability was that the
                    publication of the allegedly contemptuous statement was intentional; it was not
                    necessary to prove an intention to undermine public confidence in the
                    administration of justice (see Shadrake 1 at
                        [55]).
7       Turning to what the Judge characterised as the
                        defences to scandalising contempt, the Judge
                    considered that the defences of justification and fair comment in the law of
                    defamation were not applicable (see Shadrake 1 at [59]–[69]),
                    although his position with regard to the defence of justification was, with
                    respect, unclear. The Judge was of the view that the only defence to
                    scandalising contempt was that of fair criticism (see Shadrake 1 at [70]–[76]).
                    According to the Judge, in order to raise a defence of fair criticism, the
                    alleged contemnor must be able to show some objective basis for his contemptuous
                    statements, the cogency of the rational basis required to support his
                    allegations increasing correspondingly with the seriousness of the allegation
                    made (see Shadrake 1 at [72]). The alleged contemnor must also be able
                    to show that the allegation was made in good faith, viz, that the alleged contemnor must genuinely believe in the
                    truth of the criticism he made (see Shadrake 1 at [73]). The Judge further held that the mere fact that the criticism
                    is in outspoken language does not mean that it should necessarily be penalised
                    (see Shadrake 1 at [75]). He also surmised that, contrary to
                    English case law and earlier Singapore cases, there should not be a limit on the
                    kind of criticisms which can be made against the court subject to the above
                    criteria being met (see Shadrake 1 at
                        [76]). We pause to observe,
                    parenthetically, that the preferable approach might be to view the concept of fair criticism as going towards liability
                    rather than as an independent defence – a point which we will deal with in
                    more detail below (see generally at [59]–[86]).
8       Applying the law to the facts, the Judge held
                    that three of the statements (viz, the third,
                    sixth and twelfth statements, reproduced respectively at [92], [104] and [123] of
                        Shadrake 1) did not amount to contempt,
                    whilst the remaining eleven statements were contemptuous and did not qualify for
                    the defence of fair criticism (see Shadrake 1
                    at [133]–[136]).
The decision on sentence
9       The Judge held that imprisonment would be the
                    norm for the author of a publication which scandalises the court (see Shadrake 2 at [26]). This is because to constitute scandalising contempt, a
                    statement must not only pose a real risk of undermining public confidence in the
                    administration of justice but must also fall outside the ambit of fair criticism
                    – the satisfaction of these criteria ipso
                        facto making for a high degree of culpability (see Shadrake 2 at [26]).
10     Taking into account the high level of the
                    Appellant’s culpability, including his stated intent to repeat his
                    contempt by publishing an expanded second edition of the book; previous
                    sentencing precedents (which were on the low end); the fact that the precise
                    extent of the book’s circulation in Singapore was unclear; the fact that
                    the Appellant was not a person with a credible and established reputation; and
                    the desire to signal that the courts have no interest in stifling legitimate
                    debate on the death penalty and other areas of the law, the Judge sentenced the
                    Appellant to six weeks’ imprisonment (see Shadrake 2 at [42]).
11     Further, to send a signal that those who hope
                    to profit from controversy by scandalising the court may expect to have their
                    profits disgorged by a stiff fine in addition to other punishment, the Judge
                    imposed a $20,000 fine on the Appellant, with two weeks’ imprisonment
                    in default (see Shadrake 2 at [37] and [43]).
The issues
12     The main issues are relatively straightforward
                    and are encompassed within the following three grounds of appeal relied upon by
                    the Appellant:
(a)     First, that the Judge had erred in
                        his statement of the test for liability for scandalising contempt. In this
                        regard, the Appellant contends that whilst the Judge correctly adopted the
                            label of a “real risk” test,
                        he erred in defining the content of the said
                        test;
(b)     Second,
                        that the Judge had erred in his interpretation of the passages held to have
                        given rise to the contempt; and
(c)     Third, that the sentence meted out by the Judge was
                        manifestly excessive.
13     We will proceed to deal with each of these
                    issues seriatim. In dealing with the first issue,
                    we will address not only the test for liability for scandalising contempt but
                    also what the Judge characterised as the possible defences to contempt. This
                    particular issue relates, in substance, to the applicable legal principles. The second issue involves the application of the relevant legal principles to the
                        facts of this case – in particular, the
                    impugned statements. At this point, viz, the
                    confluence of both law and fact, we arrive at the most significant aspect of the
                    present appeal, not least because of the very real effect it will have on the
                    result of the case in general and the Appellant in particular. To this end, we
                    will undertake an analysis of each statement in relation to the relevant legal
                    principles. The third issue involves both the discussion of applicable legal
                    principles in relation to sentencing in the context of scandalising contempt, as
                    well as the application of those principles, if appropriate, to the facts of
                    this case. We use the phrase “if appropriate” because there is, of
                    course, the threshold issue of liability (which
                    falls within the purview of the first and second issues). Put simply, before we
                    can even begin to consider the issue of sentence, liability for contempt on the part of the Appellant must first
                    be established (and it is important to note – and, indeed, it is axiomatic
                    – that such liability must be established by the Respondent beyond a reasonable doubt). If no liability for contempt
                    is established in the first place, then the issue of sentence does not need to
                    be considered. That is why we have left the discussion of the legal principles
                    relating to sentence to the final part of this
                    judgment.
14     Let us now turn to consider the applicable
                    legal principles relating to the test for liability for scandalising contempt as
                    well as what the Judge characterised as the possible defences
                available.
The legal principles
Introduction
15     Although counsel for the Appellant,
                    Mr M Ravi (“Mr Ravi”), focused on the test for
                    liability for scandalising contempt, we will also deal with the possible
                    defences thereto because they are (as we shall see) directly relevant to the
                    facts of the present appeal. As already mentioned, however (at [7]), these possible defences, particularly fair
                    criticism, may be better viewed as going towards the issue of liability rather
                    than constituting independent defences as such (see also the detailed analysis
                    below at [59]-[86]).
16     Before proceeding to deal with the applicable
                    legal principles with respect to liability for scandalising contempt, it would
                    be appropriate to provide some background on the law relating to
                    contempt.
17     At the most general level, it should be noted
                    that the law relating to contempt of court operates against the broader legal
                    canvass of the right to freedom of speech that is embodied both within
                    Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev
                    Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”) as well as the common
                    law. The issue, in the final analysis, is one of balance: just as the law relating to contempt of court ought not
                    to unduly infringe the right to freedom of speech, by the same token, that right
                    is not an absolute one, for its untrammelled abuse would be a negation of the
                    right itself. Indeed, this last mentioned point is embodied in Art 14(2) of
                    the Constitution which provides that “Parliament may by law impose
                    … restrictions designed to … provide against contempt of
                    court”. In this regard, the Singapore Parliament has in fact provided the
                    courts with the jurisdiction to punish for contempt in s 7(1) of the
                    Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (see also the
                    Singapore High Court decision of Attorney-General v
                        Lingle [1995] 1 SLR(R) 199 (“Lingle”) at [7]).
18     Not surprisingly, such an approach (from
                    balance) is adopted in other jurisdictions as well. In the Appeal Committee of
                    the Court of Final Appeal decision of Wong Yeung Ng v
                        Secretary for Justice [1999] 3 HKC 143 (“Wong Yeung Ng (CFA)”), for example,
                    Litton PJ, delivering the judgment of the majority, observed thus (at
                    147):
The constitutional right of free speech as contained in the Basic Law,
                        adopting the norms set out in the International Covenant on Civil and
                        Political Rights, is not an absolute right.
                            Every civilized community is entitled to protect
                            itself from malicious conduct aimed at undermining the due
                            administration of justice. It is an
                            important aspect of the preservation of the rule of law.
                        Where the contemnor goes way beyond reasoned criticism of
                            the judicial system and acts in bad faith, as the applicant
                        has done in this case, the guarantee of free speech
                            cannot protect him from punishment. [emphasis added]
19     Contemptuous acts are generally classified
                    into two broad categories, viz, contempt by
                        interference and contempt by disobedience (see, eg,
                        You Xin v Public Prosecutor [2007]
                    4 SLR(R) 17 at [16]
                        (“You Xin”)). The former
                    category (viz, contempt by interference) comprises
                    a wide range of matters such as: (1) disrupting the court process itself
                        (eg, contempt in the face of the court,
                    alternatively termed “ex facie
                    contempt”); (2) acts which risk prejudicing or interfering with
                    particular legal proceedings (“sub judice
                    contempt”); and (3) acts which interfere with the course of justice
                    as a continuing process (eg, publications which
                    “scandalise” the court and retaliation against witnesses for
                    having given evidence in proceedings which are concluded) (see generally,
                        eg, You Xin at
                        [16] and the Privy Council decision
                    of McLeod v St Aubyn [1899] AC 549 at 561). The
                    latter category (viz, contempt by disobedience)
                    consists in the disobedience of court orders as well as the breach of
                    undertakings given to the court (ibid).
20     The present appeal relates to a charge of
                    scandalising contempt which, as noted in the preceding paragraph, falls within
                    the first category, viz, contempt by
                    interference.
21     Finally, an important point should be
                    emphasised. It is not new but is nevertheless of vital importance because it
                    undergirds the law relating to contempt in general and scandalising contempt in
                    particular. This relates to the very raison
                        d’être of the law of contempt. It is trite that the law
                    relating to contempt of court is not intended to
                    protect the dignity of judges. As Lord Atkin put it in the Privy Council
                    decision of Ambard v Attorney-General for Trinidad and
                        Tobago [1936] AC 322 at 335 (“Ambard”), “justice is not a cloistered
                    virtue” but a public one. An act of scandalising contempt is a public
                    injury rather than a private tort, in so far as it involves undermining public
                    confidence in the administration of justice. In the words of this court in
                        Pertamina Energy Trading Ltd v Karaha Bodas Co
                        LLC [2007] 2 SLR(R) 518 at [22] (“Pertamina
                        Energy Trading”):
It is imperative to note … that the doctrine of
                        contempt of court is not intended, in any manner or fashion whatsoever, to
                        protect the dignity of the judges as such; its purpose is more objective and
                        is (more importantly) rooted in the public interest. As Lord Morris of
                        Borth-y-Gest put it in the House of Lords decision of Attorney-General v Times Newspapers Ltd [1974] AC 273 (at
                        302) (“Times
                        Newspapers”):
In an ordered community courts are established for the pacific
                            settlement of disputes and for the maintenance of law and order. In the
                            general interests of the community it is imperative that the authority
                            of the courts should not be imperilled and that recourse to them should
                            not be subject to unjustifiable interference. When such unjustifiable
                            interference is suppressed it is not because those
                                charged with the responsibilities of administering justice are
                                concerned for their own dignity: it is because the very structure of
                                ordered life is at risk if the recognised courts of the land are so
                                flouted and their authority wanes and is
                            supplanted.
[emphasis in original]
22     Put simply, the fundamental purpose underlying
                    the law relating to contempt of court in general and scandalising contempt in
                    particular is to ensure that public confidence in the
                        administration of justice is not undermined. Indeed, this
                    fundamental purpose – which finds acceptance across all Commonwealth
                    jurisdictions - has been reiterated time and again in the
                    Singapore context (see, eg, Pertamina Energy Trading (cited in the preceding paragraph); as
                    well as the Singapore High Court decisions of Attorney-General v Wong Hong Toy
                    [1983–1984] SLR(R) 34 at [26]; Attorney-General v Zimmerman Fred and
                        others [1985–1986] SLR(R) 476 (“Zimmerman”) at [9]; Attorney-General v Hertzberg
                        Daniel [2009] 1 SLR(R) 1103 (“Hertzberg”) at [20]; and Attorney-General v Tan Liang Joo
                        John [2009] 2 SLR(R) 1132 (“Tan Liang Joo John”) at [11]).
23     We turn now to the test for liability for
                    scandalising contempt, viz, the actus reus and mens rea for the
                    offence. As the mens rea requirement is well
                    established, this judgment focuses instead on the actus
                        reus. That said, for the avoidance of doubt, the necessary
                        mens rea was succinctly and rightly enunciated
                    by the Judge as follows (see Shadrake 1 at
                        [55]; see also above at [6]):
There was no dispute that the only mens
                            rea which is needed at common law is that the publication is intentional; and that it is not
                        necessary to prove an intention to undermine public confidence in the
                        administration of justice. If authority is needed it can be found
                            in Radio Avon ( … )
                        at 232–234; Ahnee ( … )
                        at 307; Attorney-General for New South Wales v
                            Mundey ( … ) at 911–912.
                        [emphasis added]
The test for liability for scandalising contempt
Introduction
24     Although there are two main tests for
                    liability for scandalising contempt, viz the
                    “real risk” test and the “inherent tendency” test,
                    we note that Mr Ravi has attempted to introduce (in substance at least) a
                    third test (the “clear and present danger” test).
The “real risk” test
(1)   The test
25     The “real risk” test means
                    precisely what it says – that, before a statement can be held to be
                    contemptuous, it must pose a real risk of undermining public confidence in the
                    administration of justice. As the Judge correctly pointed out, a statement which
                    only poses a remote possibility that public confidence in the administration of
                    justice would be undermined would not be held to
                    be contemptuous (see Shadrake 1 at [51]).
26     The “real risk” test can in fact
                    be traced back to the English decision of R v Duffy and
                        others, ex parte Nash [1960] 2 QB 188 (“Nash”), which related to a situation of sub judice contempt (see also above at [19]). In that case, Lord Parker CJ held
                    that the test was whether there “was … a real
                        risk, as opposed to a remote possibility, that the article [in
                    question] was calculated to prejudice a fair hearing” (see Nash at 200; emphasis added). The “real
                    risk” test was also applied in the House of Lords decision of Attorney-General v Times Newspapers Ltd [1974] AC 273 at
                    298–299 (“Times Newspapers”),
                    where Lord Reid held that:
[the test pronounced by Lord Parker CJ in Nash requiring] a real risk, as opposed
                            to a remote possibility … [was an] …
                        application of the ordinary de minimis principle. There is no contempt if
                        the possibility of influence is remote. If there is some but only a small
                        likelihood, that may influence the court to refrain from inflicting any
                        punishment. If there is a serious risk some action may be necessary.
                        [emphasis added]
27     With regard to the “real risk”
                    test, the Judge observed as follows in the court below (see Shadrake 1 at [51]–[54]):
51    
              I should emphasise several
                                aspects of the test. First, a real risk, as defined in the cases, is
                                not to be equated with a serious or grave risk, but
                                merely something more than a
                                de minimis, remote or fanciful risk.
                                It must have substance, but need not be
                                substantial. A fortiori, it
                            is not necessary to show that public confidence was actually undermined
                            by the impugned publication. As Lord Reid made clear in his speech
                            in Times Newspapers, any degree of risk above the de
                                minimis level, including “a
                                small likelihood”, is a contempt, with the seriousness of the risk going only to
                                mitigation. For good measure, I should reiterate that the
                            facts of the Singapore cases where the “inherent tendency”
                            test was applied –
                            viz Wain, Chee Soon
                                Juan ( … ),
                                Hertzberg and Tan Liang Joo
                            ( … ) – would have satisfied the “real
                            risk” test as I have stated it.
52    Secondly, whether such a real risk is posed is
                                eminently an objective question of fact to be
                                determined in light of all the circumstances of the case,
                            including the author and nature of the publication and the scope of its
                            dissemination (Wain), and bearing in mind
                            local conditions (Badry
                            ( … )). In this last regard,
                                important considerations include the fact that we are a small,
                                crowded, multiracial and multi-religious nation, where information
                                travels rapidly and where social tensions, if developed and brought
                                to a boil, will rapidly propagate. Some of the factors emphasised in the cases should also be borne in
                                mind. The first is that
                            raised in Oriental Press Group
                            ( … ) at 659, that those who come
                                into contact with the impugned publication may not always be average
                                reasonable persons. They may be less rational, or, I should add,
                                they may be more discriminating. It is therefore not always
                                appropriate to assess the real risk to public confidence by
                                reference to the average reasonable person – the appropriate
                                reference point depends on the facts of each case. The
                                second consideration is that raised
                            in Wong Yeung Ng ( … ) by
                            Mortimer VP at 44, and by Eames J in Hoser ( … ) at [228] –
                            the court must consider what would happen if the
                                impugned publication was left unchecked. Third, the authority and
                                credibility which the publication possess, or claims to
                                possess: see, eg, Wain at [61] to [62] (article in a financial
                            paper of international repute, written by the president of a major news
                            organisation), and Hoser at [218] (alleged
                            contemnor set himself up to be a person of eminence in the investigation
                            of corruption). Finally, there is the fact that
                                judges in Singapore are the sole arbiters of fact and law in cases
                                coming before the courts (Wain).
53    
              Thirdly, I would reiterate the
                                law is not concerned with the effect of the impugned publication on
                                the judge hearing the application to commit; it looks to the
                                potential effect on public confidence in the administration of
                                justice. If a judge finds that an impugned publication
                            poses a real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration
                            of justice, the publication is prima facie
                            in contempt even though the judge might personally take a more liberal
                            view of its contents. If a judge finds that the impugned publication
                            does not pose any real risk of undermining public confidence, he must
                            decline to commit, even though he is personally outraged by the
                            contents. Similarly, the law is not concerned with the subjective
                            intentions or opinions of the author. The issue at
                                all times is the actual or potential effect on public
                                confidence.
54    
              Fourthly, the requirement for a
                                real risk, while very wide, is not illusory. One example
                            is the hypothetical found in Hertzberg
                            ( … ): if rants made at a dinner
                                party are shown to have been ignored, I cannot see that they would
                                pose a real risk to public confidence in the administration of
                                justice. Another illustration can be found in the facts
                            of Ex p Attorney-General; Re Goodwin
                            (1969) 70 SR (NSW) 413, where a letter
                                circulated by a disappointed litigant to the Attorney-General of New
                                South Wales and 13 Registrars of the district courts was found
                                to be in contempt. I am in no position to assess the situation in
                                Australia or New South Wales. But I am very certain that, should the
                                same letter be circulated to the Attorney-General, or the Registry
                                of the Supreme Court or the Subordinate Courts, it will not pose the
                                slightest risk of undermining public confidence in the
                                administration of justice. In fact, I should say from
                            personal experience that such letters are not
                                infrequently received by the Registry of the Supreme Court, and
                                copied to holders of high public office such as the
                            Attorney-General, ministers, and permanent secretaries, but the
                            Attorney-General has not, quite correctly in my view, seen fit to take
                            action against them in the law of contempt.
[emphasis in italics in original; emphasis in bold italics added]
28     In our respectful view, the Judge’s
                    elaboration of the “real risk” test in [51], viz, that
                    “a real risk, as defined in the cases, is not to be equated with a
                        serious or grave risk, but merely something more than a de
                        minimis, remote or fanciful risk” [emphasis added in bold
                    italics], gives rise to possible ambiguity. If what the Judge meant was that a
                    “real risk” was not to be equated with “a serious or grave
                    risk” inasmuch as the latter connotes a “clear and present
                    danger”, this would be consistent with our rejection of the “clear and present danger” test
                    for the reasons set out below (at [38]–[50]). However,
                    it is possible to interpret the Judge’s elaboration in a different way,
                    for he observed in the same paragraph ([51]), citing Lord Reid in Times
                        Newspapers, that “any degree of risk
                        above the de minimis level,
                        including “a small likelihood”,
                    amounts to contempt, with the seriousness of the risk going
                        only to mitigation” [emphasis added in bold italics], and
                    repeated this observation in [77]. If
                    this was the meaning intended by the Judge, it should be borne in mind that
                    there is an argument to the contrary, viz, that
                    “a small likelihood” of risk would
                        not, ex
                        hypothesi, constitute a “real risk” within the meaning of the “real
                    risk” test (cf the approach of Brooke and
                    Dubin JJA in the Ontario Court of Appeal decision of R v
                        Kopyto (1988) 47 DLR (4th) 213 (“Kopyto”), where a “serious risk” test was endorsed. Kopyto is discussed in greater detail below at [43]-[44]). While it is uncertain as to which meaning the Judge
                    intended to attribute to the requirement of “real risk”, it is
                    clear that his elaboration in [51] was
                    based on a recognition of the signal importance of ensuring that public
                    confidence in the administration of justice is not undermined.
29     In the final analysis, although the two
                    contrasting approaches toward the “real risk” test described
                    briefly in the preceding paragraph are interesting, we are of the view that it
                    would be not be helpful to attempt an elaboration (especially a theoretical one)
                    of the “real risk” test. We state this with great respect to the
                    Judge but the brief analysis above demonstrates the very real danger of semantic
                    analysis trumping practical factual considerations. The difficulty in seeking to
                    elaborate on this particular test in the abstract is obvious once we recognise
                    that the test cannot be divorced from the factual context of each case (which
                    inevitably admits of innumerable permutations). Each case ultimately turns on
                    its own particular facts and whether there is a “real risk” that
                    public confidence in the administration of justice is – or might be
                    – undermined depends very much on the court’s objective assessment of the relevant facts of the case itself (see also Shadrake 1 at [52]-[53], quoted above at [27]).
                    It is of course true that some legal test is required. Our simple point,
                    however, is that, in this instance at least, seeking to elaborate upon a legal
                    test whose efficacy is to be demonstrated more in its application rather than its theoretical elaboration is, with
                    respect, perhaps an approach that should be avoided. The fact of the matter is
                    that the great strength of the “real risk” test lies, inter alia, in its practical robustness. Put simply, we are of the view that the “real risk”
                        test is adequate in and of itself and, hence, does not require further
                        elaboration. What is clear is that
                    the “real risk” test will not be satisfied in a situation where
                    the risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice is
                    remote or fanciful. And, as explained below (at [39]), where there is, at the other end of the legal spectrum, a
                    situation that would have satisfied the more
                        stringent “clear and present danger” test, that
                    particular situation would clearly fall within the purview of the less stringent
                    “real risk” test. However, there will be many situations that lie
                    in between and, as already emphasised, much will depend on the particular facts
                    and context of the case in question.
30     We would add that, even
                        if the Judge had indeed held the view that “a small
                    likelihood” of risk constituted a real risk (a view which we disagree
                    with for the reason stated in [28] above),
                    such a “small likelihood” of risk would merely be a
                    “technical” contempt that may not even attract any sanction at all
                    (see Lord Reid’s view in Times
                        Newspapers at 299, and also Shadrake 1 at [77]). Such a situation would be a highly borderline or marginal
                    case of contempt and, viewed from the perspective of substance and even
                    practical principle, might not even merit the initiation of contempt proceedings by the Respondent in the
                    first place. We would think that, where such a situation arises, the Respondent
                    would consider it appropriate to initiate contempt proceedings only if other
                    very exceptional circumstances exist. That having been said, we do not think
                    – as already explained above – that an elaboration of the
                    “real risk” test is helpful to the courts which must decide on the
                    facts before them. The basic question is a simple one: is there, having regard
                    to the facts as well as surrounding context, a
                    “real risk” that public confidence in the administration of
                    justice is - or would be - undermined as a
                    result of the impugned statement?
31     This brings us to the next issue as to who
                    constitutes “the public” for the purposes of the law relating to
                    scandalising contempt. However, before proceeding to consider this issue, we
                    note that the Judge’s emphasis – in reliance on prior local cases
                    – on the small physical size of Singapore itself is, at best, a neutral
                    factor (see Shadrake 1 at [52], and reproduced above at [27]). With the advent of the technological age in
                    general and the Internet in particular, the geographical size of a particular
                    jurisdiction is no longer an important factor vis-à-vis the application of the “real risk” test,
                    for the very simple reason that even in a geographically large jurisdiction,
                    information can still be disseminated both quickly and widely. A further factor
                    mentioned by the Judge (at [52] of
                        Shadrake 1, and reproduced above at
                        [27]) which, in our view, is also
                    neutral at best, is his reference to “the fact that judges in Singapore
                    are the sole arbiters of fact and law in cases coming before the
                    courts”.
32     Returning to the issue as to who constitutes
                    “the public”, it will be recalled that the Judge observed (see
                        Shadrake 1 at [52], and reproduced above at [27]) that “those who come into contact with the impugned
                    publication may not always be average reasonable
                        persons” [emphasis added]. He added that:
They may be less
                            rational, or, I should add, they may be more discriminating. It
                        is therefore not always appropriate to assess the real risk to public
                        confidence by reference to the average reasonable person – the
                        appropriate reference point depends on the facts of each case. [emphasis
                        added]
(See also the Hong Kong Court of First Instance decision of Secretary for Justice v Oriental Press Group Ltd [1998]
                    2 HKC 627 (“Oriental Press
                    Group”) which the Judge cited and relied upon). If all the
                    Judge is stating is that regard should always be had to the factual context of
                    the case itself, this would be correct. However, there is, with respect, a
                    certain degree of ambiguity in these observations inasmuch as they may suggest
                    that the concept of the average reasonable person may, on occasion at least, be
                    dispensed with. If this is what was meant, we must respectfully disagree. In our
                    view, “the public” must, by definition, comprise the average
                    reasonable person. It is true that different persons might respond differently
                    to the same impugned statement. However, the court concerned must make an
                    objective decision as to whether or not that particular statement would
                    undermine public confidence in the administration of justice, as assessed by the
                    effect of the impugned statement on the average reasonable person. As
                    Lord Radcliffe observed, albeit in another context (that relating to the
                    doctrine of frustration in the law of contract), in the House of Lords decision
                    of Davis Contractors Ltd v Fareham Urban District
                        Council [1956] AC 696 (“Davis
                        Contractors”) (at 728):
By this time it might seem that the parties themselves have become so far
                        disembodied spirits that their actual persons should be allowed to rest in
                        peace. In their place there rises the figure of the fair
                            and reasonable man. And the spokesman of the fair and reasonable man,
                            who represents after all no more than the anthropomorphic conception of
                            justice, is and must be the court itself. [emphasis
                        added]
33     In this regard, we respectfully disagree with
                    the view expressed in the joint judgment of Chan CJHC and Keith J in
                        Oriental Press Group (at [55]) (cited in Shadrake 1 at [28]):
[W]e think that the real test should be: was there a real risk that the
                        acts complained of would undermine confidence in the due administration of
                        justice in the minds of at least some of the
                        persons who were likely to become aware of the publication or acts
                        complained of? [emphasis added]
With respect, the proposition just set out is not, as explained above,
                    consistent with what we understand to be the general position on this particular
                    aspect of the law. Nor ought it to be, given the
                    serious consequences to the persons found in contempt of court.
34     However, it should be emphasised (especially
                    in light of the observations by Lord Radcliffe in Davis
                        Contractors (cited above at [32])) that the court proceeds on an objective inquiry and does not
                    substitute its own subjective view as to who comprises “the
                    public”, and, in so far as the observations by Lord Radcliffe just
                    referred to suggest otherwise, they ought to be qualified accordingly. What
                        is clear, in our view, is that the concept of
                    “the public”
                    cannot differ according to different factual
                    matrices although these matrices are the relevant backdrop against which to
                    ascertain whether or not public confidence in the administration of justice has
                    been – or might be – undermined.
35     Finally, we would caution that the
                    illustrations referred to by the Judge, viz, rants
                    made at a dinner party and a letter circulated by a disappointed litigant to
                    holders of high public and legal office (see [54] of Shadrake 1, also
                    reproduced above at [27]) cannot admit of
                        only one correct answer in every case. Much would, in our view, depend on the precise facts and context in which the impugned
                    statement is made. For instance, we note that the Judge was careful to qualify
                    his view (at [54] of Shadrake 1) that there would be no contempt in the dinner
                    party rant scenario if the rants “are shown to have been ignored” [emphasis added], because in such a case
                    there would be no real risk of undermining public confidence
                        in the administration of justice. The point we are making here is
                    simply that having regard for the precise facts and context in which the
                    impugned statement is made is crucial.
(2)   A summary
36     Let us summarise. Put simply, the “real
                    risk” test is an adequate formulation in and of itself and requires no
                    further theoretical elaboration. It is, at bottom, a test that means precisely
                    what it says: is there a real risk that the impugned statement has undermined
                    – or might undermine – public confidence in the administration of
                    justice (here, in Singapore)? In applying this test, the court must avoid either
                    extreme on the legal spectrum, viz, of either finding that contempt has been established where
                    there is only a remote or fanciful possibility that public confidence in the
                    administration of justice is (or might be) undermined or finding that contempt has been established only in the most serious
                    situations (which is, as we shall see in the next section of this judgment,
                    embodied within the “clear and present danger” test). In
                    undertaking such an analysis, the court must not substitute its own subjective
                    view for the view of the average reasonable person as it is clear that the
                    inquiry must necessarily be an objective one. Much would depend, in the final
                    analysis, on the precise facts and context in which the impugned statement is
                    made.
37     As already mentioned, extreme positions in relation to the “real risk”
                    test must be assiduously avoided – whether in form and/or in substance.
                    This brings us to one of the main arguments canvassed by counsel for the
                    Appellant, Mr Ravi, in the present appeal which was, as we shall
                    demonstrate in a moment, merely an attempt to introduce a wholly different (and stricter)
                    test, viz, the “clear and present
                    danger” test, under the guise of the “real
                        risk” test. Let us turn now to consider this particular
                    argument.
(3)   The Appellant’s attempt to introduce the “clear
                and present danger” test under the guise of the “real risk”
                test
38     As already alluded to in the preceding
                    paragraph, Mr Ravi sought to go further by
                    arguing that there would be a “real risk” of undermining public
                    confidence in the administration of justice only
                        if the statement concerned posed a clear and
                        present danger that public confidence in the administration of
                    justice would be undermined. A moment’s reflection would reveal that
                    Mr Ravi was attempting to equate the concept
                    of a “real risk” with the concept of a “clear and present
                    danger” in so far as the potential undermining of public confidence in
                    the administration of justice is concerned. It would take little further
                    reflection to conclude that such an attempted “equation” is, with
                    respect, deeply flawed. Both concepts clearly do not have the same meaning. Let us
                    elaborate.
39     Whilst it would follow
                        that a statement which posed a clear and
                        present danger would simultaneously
                    pose a real risk, the converse does not follow. In other
                    words, a statement which would pose a real risk would not
                        necessarily pose a clear and present
                        danger. The criterion centring on the concept of a “clear
                    and present danger” is an extremely stringent
                        standard compared to the concept of a “real risk”
                    and, to that extent, the latter would encompass
                    the former – but not vice versa.
                    Mr Ravi was, in substance, attempting to introduce a completely different test (viz,
                    the “clear and present danger” test) into Singapore law under
                        the guise of the “real risk”
                        test. As we have seen, both tests might overlap inasmuch as
                    situations which fall within the scope of the “clear and present
                    danger” test would also fall within the scope of the “real
                    risk” test. However, as we have emphasised, the converse does not follow.
40     It is important, in our view, to emphasise
                    that if a particular statement poses a “real
                        risk”, this would be sufficient to render that statement contemptuous. Indeed, the very concept of a “real
                    risk” is a weighty one and it therefore comes as no surprise that
                        the “real risk” test is the predominant
                        (indeed, almost exclusive) test that applies throughout the
                        Commonwealth (and see generally the case law cited below at
                        [45]-[49]).
41     The “clear and present danger”
                    test applies, in the main, in the United States’ (“US”)
                    context (see, eg, the US Supreme Court decision of
                        Bridges v State of California (1941)
                    314 US 252 (“Bridges”)), where
                    the concept of freedom of speech is inextricably linked to the unique culture as well as constitutional position
                        (ie, the First Amendment) in the US (see
                        Bridges and the Constitutional Court of South
                    Africa’s decision of The State v Russell
                        Mamabolo (2001) 3 SA 409 (CC) (“Mamabolo”) at [21]). With the exception of a seemingly solitary and divided
                    Canadian decision which we will deal with in more detail below (at [43]-[44]), the “clear and present
                    danger” test appears to apply in no other Commonwealth jurisdiction. To
                    return to this particular test as set in its US
                        context, it should, first, be noted that in the US there does not even appear to be a concept of scandalising contempt
                        to begin with (see Bridges) –
                    the US Supreme Court in Bridges considered
                    criticism of the courts, no matter how unrestrained, made after a decision has
                    been rendered, to be an exercise of the right of free discussion and free
                    speech. As alluded to above, the concept of freedom of speech has – owing
                    to the unique cultural as well as constitutional heritage of the US – been
                    accorded a paramountcy in a manner quite different
                    from other Commonwealth jurisdictions. This is not surprising when we consider
                    the language of the First Amendment itself, as follows:
Congress shall make no law respecting an
                        establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or
                            abridging the freedom of speech, or of the
                        press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the
                        Government for a redress of grievances. [emphasis added]
The US First Amendment is clearly quite different from the
                    corresponding articles in the respective constitutions of Commonwealth
                    jurisdictions (of which Art 14 of the Singapore Constitution is a
                    representative illustration). This is not to state that freedom of speech is
                    absent – or even lacking, for that matter – in Commonwealth
                    countries. There is, instead, far more attention accorded to the issue of
                        balance between the right to freedom of speech
                    on the one hand and its abuse on the other (inter
                        alia, by conduct amounting to contempt of court). One might add
                    that the paramountcy accorded to the right to freedom of speech in the US is
                        not, with respect, necessarily an approach that ought
                    to be emulated as it could (as we have noted above at [17]) actually result in possible abuse and consequent negation of
                    the right itself. This is no mere parochial rhetoric but is, rather, premised on
                    logic and commonsense. Hence, it is no surprise, therefore, that jurisdictions
                    across the Commonwealth (which are numerous as they are diverse and which, of
                    course, include Singapore) adopt, instead, the approach from balance (see also above at [17]-[18]).
42     Returning to the “clear and present
                    danger” test, it was adopted in the US context with respect to sub judice contempt (see, eg, Bridges itself). On this
                    related note, however, there is, in our view, no reason in principle why the
                        “real risk” test (as opposed to
                    the “clear and present danger” test) ought not to apply in
                    situations of sub judice contempt as well. Indeed,
                    in the English context, the “real risk” test first enunciated in
                        Nash related in fact to a situation of
                        sub judice contempt, the test there being
                    whether there was a real risk that the impugned statement would prejudice a fair hearing (see also above at [26]).
43     That having been said, there is one apparently
                    solitary Commonwealth decision which furnishes some (but, as we shall see, by no
                    means clear) support for the “clear and present danger” test in
                    the context of scandalising contempt – the Ontario Court of Appeal
                    decision of Kopyto. Kopyto was perceptively summarised and analysed by
                    Mortimer VP in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal decision of Wong Yeung Ng v Secretary for Justice [1999] 2 HKC 24
                        (“Wong Yeung Ng (CA)”), which
                    affirmed the decision of the Court of First Instance in Oriental Press Group, and whose decision the Appeal Committee of
                    the Court of Final Appeal in Wong Yeung Ng (CFA)
                    refused to give leave to appeal against. In Wong Yeung Ng
                        (CA), Mortimer VP summarised the decision in Kopyto as follows (at 41-42):
… The five member Ontario Court of Appeal was unanimous that the
                        momentary but excessive reaction of a disappointed lawyer was not made out
                        as a contempt. In its consideration of the necessary ingredients of contempt
                        by way of scandalising the court it is impressive. …
It is necessary to examine the judgments in a little detail for the reason
                        that on issues other than the result the court was split three ways. Cory
                        and Goodman JJA were of the view that in order to accord with the
                        fundamental freedoms in the [Canadian] Charter the contempt must be shown to
                        involve a ‘real, substantial and immediate’ (Cory) or
                        ‘real, significant and present or immediate’ (Goodman) danger to
                        the administration of justice.
Houlden JA stood alone in deciding that no offence of scandalising
                        the court, however framed, could be consistent with the Charter and
                        therefore there could be no such contempt.
Brooke and Dubin JJA on the other hand considered the offence to be a
                        necessary exemption provided that the statement complained of is calculated
                        to bring the administration of justice in disrepute and it is shown that
                        there is a ‘serious risk that the administration of justice would be
                        interfered with – that risk could be expressed as serious, real or
                        substantial’.
44     As Mortimer VP aptly pointed out in the
                    passage quoted from his judgment in preceding paragraph, the decision in
                        Kopyto in so far as the legal test for
                    scandalising contempt is concerned was a split
                    one. Brooke and Dubin JJA clearly opted for the “real risk”
                    test, whereas Cory and Goodman JJA opted for the “clear and present
                    danger” test. The remaining judge, Houlden JA, did not need to
                    decide on the precise test to be adopted. Hence, Kopyto is by no means a strong Commonwealth decision in favour
                    of the “clear and present danger” test. Indeed, to the best of our
                    knowledge, there does not appear to be any decision subsequent to Kopyto which definitively favoured the approach of Cory
                    and Goodman JJA.
45     On the contrary, the vast majority of
                    decisions in other jurisdictions point in the opposite direction (viz, in favour
                    of the “real risk” test).
46     For example, in Hong Kong, although the Court
                    of Appeal in Wong Yeung Ng (CA) did not really
                    give a definitive pronouncement as to which view in Kopyto ought to be preferred, the Court of Final Appeal in
                        Wong Yeung Ng (CFA) did not grant leave to appeal to the appellant, one of the grounds
                    in his application being that the Hong Kong courts should adopt the Kopyto “clear and present danger” test
                    instead of the “real risk” test.
47     And, in Mamabolo, the Constitutional Court of South Africa agreed with the
                    minority’s view in Kopyto, expressing
                    misgivings (at [35]) about the:
… suitability of [the “clear and present danger”]
                        test in a jurisdiction that does not have to apply the First Amendment nor
                        enjoys the benefit of the extensive and complex jurisprudence so carefully
                        constructed by the United States courts.
48     We would add that the views of Brooke and
                    Dubin JJA in Kopyto are more persuasive than
                    those of Cory and Goodman JJA because they acknowledged the clear
                    difference between the Canadian and the US position, citing at [72] the following observations of the New
                    Zealand Court of Appeal in Radio Avon (at
                    234):
We have not overlooked the submissions which Mr Palmer made to us based
                        upon various cases decided in the United States of America. We do not
                        propose to refer to those cases in detail. One of them is a decision of the
                        Supreme Court of the United States in Wood v
                            Georgia 370 US 375 (1962). The test adopted was that
                        “The danger must not be remote or even probable; it must immediately
                        imperil” (ibid, 385). The American courts appear
                            to have directed their attention to the existence of a clear and present
                            danger of a court being influenced, intimidated, impeded, embarrassed or
                            obstructed in the administration of justice. English law, on the other
                            hand, has also attached great importance to the need to preserve public
                            confidence in the administration of justice generally. This
                        court should not depart from that attitude subject, of course, in the type
                        of contempt now under consideration, to the public right of fair comment and
                        criticism, and to the possible defence of justification earlier referred to
                        in this judgment. [emphasis added]
49     In summary, the “clear and present
                    danger” test does not represent the law in
                    Singapore and Mr Ravi’s attempt to introduce it under the guise of
                    the “real risk” test fails.
50     Let us turn now to consider the other main
                    test, viz, the “inherent tendency”
                    test as well as its relationship to the “real risk”
                test.
The “inherent tendency” test
(1)   The test
51     The “inherent tendency” test was
                    first articulated by the Singapore High Court in Attorney-General v Wain Barry J and Others [1991]
                    1 SLR(R) 85 (“Wain”) (the
                    related judgment with regard to sentence is reported at Attorney-General v Wain Barry J [1991]
                    1 SLR(R) 108), where Sinnathuray J observed as follows (at
                        [54]):
… it is not a requirement of our law
                        … that in contempt proceedings it must be proved that the publication
                        constitutes a real risk of prejudicing the administration
                            of justice. In my judgment, it is sufficient to prove that
                        the words complained of have the inherent
                            tendencyto interfere with the administration of
                            justice. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
52     With respect, there does not appear to be any
                    clear authority for the “inherent tendency” test and, indeed, the
                    learned judge in Wain did not cite any such
                    authority. However, as the Judge correctly observed, this particular test was
                    “subsequently referred to in decisions of the [Singapore] High Court and
                    seems to have developed a life of its own” (see Shadrake 1 at [34]). The various Singapore High Court decisions which appeared to
                    adopt the “inherent tendency” test include Attorney-General v Chee Soon Juan [2006] 2 SLR(R) 650
                    at [31]; Hertzberg at [25]–[34]; and
                        Tan Liang Joo John at [12].
53     We do note, however, that, in the Supreme
                    Court of Queensland decision of Attorney-General for State of
                        Queensland v Colin Lovitt QC [2003] QSC 279
                        (“Lovitt”), Chesterman J
                    did observe (in a similar vein to Sinnathuray J in Wain (above at [52])), as
                    follows (at [58]):
The law appears to be that where the contempt is constituted by criticism
                        which tends to undermine public confidence in the due administration of
                        justice the intention of the critic is largely irrelevant. What matters is
                            the inherent tendency of the criticism
                            to diminish the authority of the court and the
                            public’s confidence in it. [emphasis added]
(2)   The relationship between the “inherent
                tendency” test and the “real risk” test
54     The test laid down in Wain (reproduced at [51]
                    above) is somewhat ambiguous in so far as it does not clearly set out the
                    precise relationship between “real risk” and “inherent
                    tendency”.
55     It may be possible, on one reading at least,
                    to interpret Wain as conceptualising
                    “inherent tendency”
                    in contradistinction to “real risk”;
                    indeed, this is what several courts have done in subsequent cases.
56     However, a holistic reading of Wain suggests that the learned judge did not intend to divorce the test from its actual or potential impact on public confidence in the administration
                        of justice. It is, in fact, axiomatic that the law in general and
                    the law relating to scandalising contempt in particular do not – and
                    cannot – operate in a hermetically sealed environment. That this is the
                    case is clearly illustrated by the actual application of the law to the facts by
                    the learned judge himself (and a similar interpretation could arguably be taken
                    of Lovitt). This must surely be the case as, in
                    our view, it would be contrary to both logic as well as commonsense for the
                    “inherent tendency” test – or any test for that matter
                    – to be stated only at a purely abstract or theoretical level. Indeed,
                    even a theoretical formulation must have in view the vital sphere of application, having regard of course to the particular facts and
                        context of the case in which that formulation is applied. In our
                    view, in none of the decisions cited above (at [52]) is there any indication whatsoever that the court
                    concerned had ignored the particular facts and context of the case at hand in
                    arriving at its decision. Looked at in this light, the apparent distinction between the “inherent
                    tendency” test on the one hand and the “real risk” test on
                    the other is, in our view, a “legal red herring”.
57     As stated earlier, however, we note that
                    subsequent courts have appeared to define the “inherent tendency”
                    test in contradistinction to the “real
                    risk” test. Although those cases would have been decided the same way
                    even if the “real risk” test was applied, this provides us reason
                    enough to eschew the use of the term “inherent tendency”. As the
                    Judge noted (at [50] of Shadrake 1), emphasising the test to be that of
                    “real risk” would avoid controversy and misunderstanding by
                    conveying precisely the legal test to layperson and lawyer alike. We therefore
                    unequivocally state that the “real risk” test is the applicable
                    test vis-à-vis liability for scandalising contempt
                    in Singapore.
58     We turn now to consider the concept of
                        fair criticism. As we shall see, although it
                    was apparently assumed in the court below that this concept is a defence in the law relating to contempt, it might well
                    be the case that – whilst still relevant (and even vital to the ultimate
                    outcome of the case concerned) – this particular concept is an integral part of the entire process of inquiry as to whether or
                        not the impugned statement is in contempt of court in the first place. Put
                        simply, the concept of fair criticism might go to the issue of liability
                        rather than constituting a defence after a finding of liability for contempt
                        has been made. Let us now turn to the concept
                itself.
The concept of fair criticism
Introduction – liability or defence?
59     It had, apparently at least, been assumed in
                    the court below that the concept of fair criticism is a defence to a charge of contempt of court (see Shadrake 1 at [70]–[76]).
                    However, and as was suggested to counsel during oral submissions before this
                    court, the precedents cited in support of this approach towards the concept of
                    fair criticism are – at best – ambiguous. Put simply, it could be
                    said that these precedents, whilst discussing the concept of fair criticism, nevertheless do not treat it as a separate defence
                    as such but, rather, as an integral part of the process of
                        analysis as to whether or not the impugned statement is in contempt in the
                        first place. Hence, the question posed in the heading to this
                    section of the judgment.
60     To elaborate, none of the key decisions expressly refers to the concept of fair criticism in the context
                    of a separate defence. For example, in Ambard
                    (which is often cited as one of the seminal cases with regard to fair
                    criticism), the key passage in Lord Atkin’s judgment (delivered on
                    behalf of the Privy Council) is as follows (at 335):
But whether the authority and position of an individual judge, or the due
                        administration of justice, is concerned, no wrong is
                            committed by any member of the public who
                            exercises the ordinary right of criticising, in good faith, in private
                            or public, the public act done in the seat of justice. The
                        path of criticism is a public way: the wrong headed are permitted to err
                        therein: provided that members of the public abstain from imputing improper
                        motives to those taking part in the administration of justice, and are
                        genuinely exercising a right of criticism, and not acting in malice or
                        attempting to impair the administration of justice, they are immune. Justice
                        is not a cloistered virtue: she must be allowed to suffer the scrutiny and
                        respectful, even though outspoken, comments of ordinary men. [emphasis
                        added]
61     One would immediately note that there is no
                    mention in the passage just quoted of fair criticism being a formal legal
                        defence as such. Indeed, it appears that
                    Lord Atkin was focusing on the concept of fair criticism in the context of
                        liability. This approach also appeared to be
                    adopted much earlier in the English decision of The Queen v
                        Gray [1900] QB 36 (“Gray”), where Lord Russell CJ observed thus (at
                    40):
Judges and Courts are alike open to criticism, and if reasonable argument
                        or expostulation is offered against any judicial act as contrary to law or
                        the public good, no Court could or would treat that as
                            contempt of Court. The law ought not to be astute in such
                        cases to criticise adversely what under such circumstances and with such an
                        object is published; but it is to be remembered that in this matter the
                        liberty of the press is no greater and no less than the liberty of every
                        subject of the Queen. Now, as I have said, no one has suggested that this is
                        not a contempt of Court, and nobody has suggested, or could suggest, that it
                        falls within the right of public criticism in the sense I have described. It
                        is not criticism: I repeat that it is personal scurrilous abuse of a judge
                        as a judge. [emphasis added]
62     More recently, in the English Court of Appeal
                    decision of Regina v Commissioner of Police of the
                        Metropolis, ex parte Blackburn (No 2) [1968] 2 QB 150
                        (“Blackburn”),
                    Lord Denning MR observed (in a similar vein) thus (at 155):
Let me say at once that we will never use this jurisdiction as a means to
                        uphold our own dignity. That must rest on surer foundations. Nor will we use
                        it to suppress those who speak against us. We do not fear criticism, nor do
                        we resent it. For there is something far more important at stake. It is no
                        less than freedom of speech itself.

It is the right of every man, in Parliament or out of
                            it, in the Press or over the broadcast, to make fair comment, even
                            outspoken comment, on matters of public interest. Those who comment can
                            deal faithfully with all that is done in a court of justice. They can
                            say that we are mistaken, and our decisions erroneous, whether they are
                            subject to appeal or not. All we would ask is that those who
                        criticise us will remember that, from the nature of our office, we cannot
                        reply to their criticisms. We cannot enter into public controversy. Still
                        less into political controversy. We must rely on our conduct itself to be
                        its own vindication.
Exposed as we are to the winds of criticism, nothing which is said by this
                        person or that, nothing which is written by this pen or that, will deter us
                        from doing what we believe is right; nor, I would add, from saying what the
                        occasion requires, provided that it is pertinent to the matter in hand.
                        Silence is not an option when things are ill done.
So it comes to this: Mr. Quintin Hogg has criticised the court, but in so
                        doing he is exercising his undoubted right. The article
                            contains an error, no doubt, but errors do not make it a contempt of
                            court. We must uphold his right to the uttermost.
I hold this not to be a contempt of court,
                        and would dismiss the application.
[emphasis added]
63     In the same decision, Salmon LJ also
                    observed, as follows (at 155-156):

It follows that no criticism of a judgment, however
                            vigorous, can amount to contempt of court, providing it keeps within the
                            limits of reasonable courtesy and good faith. The criticism
                        here complained of, however rumbustious, however wide of the mark, whether
                        expressed in good taste or in bad taste, seems to me to be well within those
                        limits. [emphasis added]
64     Finally, Edmund Davies LJ observed (at
                    156; and, significantly, citing Gray (see above at
                        [61])):

The right to fair criticism is part of the
                        birthright of all subjects of Her Majesty. Though it has
                            its boundaries, that right covers a wide expanse, and its curtailment
                            must be jealously guarded against. It applies to the
                        judgments of the courts as to all other topics of public importance.
                            Doubtless it is desirable that critics should, first,
                            be accurate and, secondly, be fair, and that they will particularly
                            remember and be alive to that desirability if those they would attack
                            have, in the ordinary course, no means of defending
                            themselves. [emphasis added]
65     In Radio Avon,
                    the court observed that there was a “right” to criticise the work
                    of the courts. The relevant extract reads as follows (at 230):
The present case falls within the first of the two categories
                        of contempt referred to by Lord Russell. As such it is a type of
                        contempt which does not, as a general rule, directly and immediately
                        prejudice the conduct of some particular case either pending or in the
                        process of being heard. The justification for this branch of the law of
                        contempt is that it is contrary to the public interest that public
                        confidence in the administration of justice should be undermined. But in
                        this class of contempt which, as we have said, generally occurs otherwise
                        than in the context of pending litigation, the courts have always recognised
                        that their activities can properly be made the subject of criticism,
                        directed in good faith towards the improvement of the administration of
                        justice. Speaking of this particular class of contempt Lord Morris in
                            McLeod v St Aubyn said, “Hence,
                        when a trial has taken place and the case is over, the judge or the jury are
                        given over to criticism” ([1899] AC 549, 561). Lord Russell
                        emphasied the same point in R v Gray and it
                        was developed by Lord Atkin in Ambard v
                            Attorney-General. In a celebrated passage in his judgment he
                        said:
“But whether the authority and position of an individual judge,
                            or the due administration of justice, is concerned, no wrong is
                            committed by any member of the public who exercises the ordinary right
                            of criticising, in good faith, in private or public, the public act done
                            in the seat of justice. The path of criticism is a public way: the wrong
                            headed are permitted to err therein: provided that members of the public
                            abstain from imputing improper motives to those taking part in the
                            administration of justice, and are genuinely exercising a right of
                            criticism, and not acting in malice or attempting to impair the
                            administration of justice, they are immune. Justice is not a cloistered
                            virtue: she must be allowed to suffer the scrutiny and respectful, even
                            though outspoken, comments of ordinary men” ([1936] AC 322,
                            335).
The right of the press or the public to criticise the work of the courts
                        was again strongly upheld by the Court of Appeal in England in R v Commissioner of Police, Ex p Blackburn
                            (No 2) [1968] 2 QB 150; [1968] 2 All ER 319.
                        The courts of New Zealand, as in the United Kingdom, completely recognise
                        the importance of freedom of speech in relation to their work provided that
                        criticism is put forward fairly and honestly for a legitimate purpose and
                        not for the purpose of injuring our system of justice.
It will be noted that the court in Radio
                        Avon cited the passage from Ambard
                    in coming to its conclusion that it was in the interest of freedom of speech
                    that criticism put forward fairly and honestly for a legitimate purpose should
                    not be found to be in contempt. As we have earlier demonstrated, Ambard appears to focus on fair criticism in the context
                    of liability, rather than as a formal defence.
66     In the Australian High Court decision of
                        Nationwide News Pty Ltd v Wills (1992)
                    177 CLR 1, Mason CJ observed thus (at 32–33):
So long as the defendant is genuinely exercising a right of
                        criticism and not acting in malice or attempting to impair the
                        administration of justice, he or she is immune. In R. v. Dunbabin; Ex parte Williams, Rich J., with reference to
                        the summary jurisdiction to punish for contempt, said:
“It is not given for the purpose of restricting honest
                            criticism based on rational grounds of the manner in which the Court
                            performs its functions. The law permits in respect of Courts, as of
                            other institutions, the fullest discussions of their doings so long as
                            that discussion is fairly conducted and is honestly directed to some
                            definite public purpose. The jurisdiction exists in order that the
                            authority of the law as administered in the Courts may be established
                            and maintained.”
This approach is based upon the underlying view that “[f]air
                        criticism of the decisions of the Court is not only lawful, but regarded as
                        being for the public good”, to repeat the words of Evatt J. in
                            R. v. Fletcher; Ex parte Kisch.
                        However, as his Honour went on to point out, “the facts forming the
                        basis of the criticism must be accurately stated, and the criticism must be
                        fair and not distorted by malice”.
67     In the same decision, Brennan J stated as
                    follows (at 38-39):
Thus it has been said that it is no contempt of court to criticize court
                        decisions when the criticism is fair and not distorted by malice and the
                        basis of the criticism is accurately stated. To the contrary, a public
                        comment fairly made on judicial conduct that is truly disreputable (in the
                        sense that it would impair the confidence of the public in the competence or
                        integrity of the court) is for the public benefit. It is not necessary, even
                        if it be possible, to chart the limits of contempt scandalizing the court.
                        It is sufficient to say that the revelation of truth - at all events when
                        its revelation is for the public benefit - and the making of a fair
                        criticism based on fact do not amount to a contempt of court though the
                        truth revealed or the criticism made is such as to deprive the court or
                        judge of public confidence.
68     It is, of course, possible to interpret the
                    statements of principle set out in the preceding paragraphs of this part of the
                    judgment as being consistent with the concept of fair criticism as a defence inasmuch as that particular interpretation would
                    also result in the absence of contemptuous conduct as well. However, the nature, tenor and
                        thrust of these statements of principle are, in our view, more
                    consistent with the concept of fair criticism as going towards liability instead.
69     There is, however, at least one decision that
                    refers to the “defence” of fair criticism. In Gilbert Ahnee and others v Director of Public Prosecutions
                    [1999] 2 AC 294 (“Ahnee”), the
                    Privy Council noted (at 306):
There is available to a defendant a defence based on the “right of
                        criticising, in good faith, in private or public, the public act done in the
                        seat of justice:” see Reg. v. Gray
                        [1900] 2 Q.B. 36, 40; Ambard v. Attorney-General for
                            Trinidad and Tobago [1936] A.C. 322, 335 and Badry v. Director of Public Prosecutions [1983]
                        2 A.C. 297.
However, as just mentioned, the prior decisions cited by the Privy
                    Council in Ahnee do not constitute (at least
                    unambiguously) authority for conceptualising fair criticism as a
                defence.
70     We note that the major treatises on the law of
                    contempt shed little light on the issue of whether fair criticism relates to
                    liability or operates as a formal legal defence. For example, CJ Miller,
                        Contempt of Court (Oxford University Press,
                    3rd Ed, 2000) at para 12.31 et seq
                    purports to deal with “[p]ossible [d]efences” [emphasis added], noting that
                    defences to scandalising contempt “are not questions which have been
                    subjected to detailed analysis in an English court”, and that “any
                    conclusions must necessarily be tentative”. The text proceeds to analyse
                    case law on the “possible defences” of justification and fair
                    comment, without drawing any firm conclusions as to whether or not these
                    concepts constitute defences to scandalising contempt. Similarly, in David
                    Eady & ATH Smith, Arlidge, Eady & Smith on
                        Contempt (Sweet & Maxwell, 3rd Ed, 2005) at
                    para 5-252 et seq, the learned authors note
                    that the defences available to scandalising contempt are
                uncertain.
71     The reports of law commissions in England and
                    Australia are similarly inconclusive. The Australian Law Reform Commission in
                    its report Contempt (Report No 35, Australian
                    Government Publishing Service, Canberra, 1987) (“the ALRC Report”)
                    cited the passage from Ambard for the proposition
                    that there was a right to criticise the judiciary (see the ALRC Report at
                    para 413). However, no elaboration on the characterisation of such a right
                    to criticise was proffered. The ALRC Report went on to debate the existence of
                    the defences of justification and fair comment, noting that there were
                    conflicting case law authorities on the issue of the defences to contempt. The
                    ALRC subsequently tentatively rejected both defences (see the ALRC Report at
                    paras 415 and 416). Notably, there was never any mention of a defence of fair criticism as such (see the ALRC Report
                    at para 437 et seq). In our view, the closest
                    that the ALRC Report came to addressing the concept of fair criticism (as
                    understood by the Judge) was in an ambiguous statement at para 438, which
                    reads in relevant part, as follows:
Finally, there is authority in the cases to the effect that in the course
                        of trying a scandalising case, a court will exonerate the accused unless it
                        finds the allegedly scandalising remarks to be ‘unjustified’,
                        ‘unwarrantable’ or ‘baseless’ [citing R v Fletcher, ex parte Kisch (1935) 52 CLR 248
                        at 257; Gallagher v Durack (1983) 152 CLR
                        238 at 244]. This is not the same approach to the matter
                            as allowing the accused to plead and prove a formal defence of
                            justification. It appears to refer the matter to judicial
                        instinct, or to what can be ascertained through judicial notice. But this
                        element in scandalising law will protect the accused against being convicted
                        where it is plain that his or her allegations have a clear and genuine basis
                        in fact. [emphasis added]
The italicised portion suggests that there is some other concept which
                    is akin to, but not the same as, a
                        “formal defence of
                    justification” [emphasis added]. It is possible that, having earlier
                    cited the Ambard passage at para 413 of the
                    ALRC Report, the ALRC was in fact alluding to some concept of fair criticism not
                    amounting to a formal defence – albeit, and with respect somewhat
                    confusingly, in the context of the concept of justification.
72     In the report of the Law Commission of England
                    and Wales entitled Offences Relating to Interference with the
                        Course of Justice (Law Commission No 96, 7 November
                    1979) (“the EWLC Report”), it was recommended at para 3.70
                    that the offence of scandalising contempt should be replaced by a new offence
                    which punishes the publication or distribution of false matter:
… with intent that it be taken as true and knowing it to be false
                        or being reckless whether it is false, when it imputes corrupt judicial
                        conduct to any judge, tribunal or member of a tribunal.
In other words, a person will not be convicted of contempt if
                        either (a) the allegation made by him or
                    her is true; or (b) the allegation is false,
                    but the alleged contemnor honestly believed it to be true and was not reckless
                    as to whether it was true or false. This approach bears some similarity to the
                    role given to the concept of fair criticism by the Judge, and may be thought to
                    conceive of fair criticism as a defence. However,
                    there is no reference to the concept of fair criticism whatsoever in the EWLC
                    Report, much less any analysis of fair criticism existing as a formal legal
                    defence.
73     In the 1974 report of the Committee on
                    Contempt of Court chaired by Phillimore LJ (“the Phillimore
                    Report”), which was referred to in the EWLC Report, the Phillimore
                    Committee recommended that justification should be a defence to contempt if the
                    impugned statements were demonstrated to be for the public benefit (see the
                    Phillimore Report, at paras 165–167). We note that the Phillimore
                    Report did not cite any case law for its proposed norms, and that, again, no
                    reference was made to the concept of fair criticism as such.
74     We turn now to examine s 5 of the Indian
                    Contempt of Courts Act 1971 (“ICCA”), which appears to address the
                    concept of fair criticism (and which, to the best of our knowledge, is probably
                    the only attempt in the Commonwealth to deal legislatively with this concept). Section 5 reads as
                    follows:

Fair criticism
of judicial act not contempt

5.    A person shall not be guilty of contempt of court
                            for publishing any fair comment on the
                            merits of any case which has been heard and finally decided. [emphasis
                            added]
We also note that s 8 of the ICCA provides that:

Other defences not affected.
8.    Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed as
                            implying that any other defence which would have been a valid defence in
                            any proceedings for contempt of court has ceased to be available merely
                            by reason of the provisions of this Act.
75     With respect, there is a degree of ambiguity
                    in s 5 concerning whether fair criticism, under Indian law, relates to
                        liability or operates as a formal legal
                        defence. On one view, it may be thought that
                    s 5 treats the concept of fair criticism as being synonymous with the
                        defence of “fair comment” in
                    defamation. This view may be derived from the fact that the savings provision in
                    s 8 refers to “[o]ther defence[s]”, thus possibly implying
                    that s 5 was intended to refer to a “defence”. It may also
                    stem from the Report of the Sanyal Committee which, in recommending the
                    codification of contempt laws (eventually resulting in the ICCA), discussed
                    “fair criticism” under the chapter entitled
                    “Defences”. However, it should be noted that no elaboration is
                    provided in the ICCA as to how precisely the concept of “fair
                    criticism” should be characterised, and there is no express reference to
                    it being a “defence” as such. Furthermore, s 5 appears to be
                    a codification of the position in Ambard and
                        Gray (see the Report of the Sanyal Committee,
                    Chapter IX section 3; and see Aiyer’s Law of
                        Contempt of Court, Legislature & Public Servants (Law Book
                    Company, 5th Ed, 1976) at 91), which decisions we have earlier noted to be
                    ambiguous vis-à-vis the characterisation of the
                    concept of “fair criticism”.
76     The other possible interpretation of s 5
                    is that the ICCA merely treats fair criticism as being related to the issue of
                    liability rather than constituting a defence. In this regard, we note that a
                    2006 legislative amendment expressly provided for
                    a defence of justification in s 13 of the
                    ICCA, as follows:

Contempts not punishable in certain
                        cases.
13. Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the
                        time being in force,—
…
(b) the court may permit, in any proceeding for contempt of court,
                            justification by truth as a valid defence
                            if it is satisfied that it is in public interest and the request for
                            invoking the said defence is bona
                            fide.
[emphasis added]
Looked at in this light, the only defence
                        expressly referred to in the ICCA is one of justification. This suggests that the s 5 reference to
                    “fair criticism” was not intended to establish a defence of “fair criticism” as such.
                    Indeed, it may indicate that “fair criticism” in s 5 should
                    be characterised in a manner akin to how we have characterised Ambard and Gray, viz, as being related to liability instead of being a formal legal defence (see [60]–[61]
                    above).
77     We are not well placed, and certainly do not
                    propose, to definitively determine how the concept of “fair
                    criticism” should be characterised under the ICCA. Our only observation
                    is that there is potential ambiguity with regard to the precise role and
                    operation of the concept of fair criticism in Commonwealth case law and
                    (possibly) even legislation.
78     However, whether one approach is adopted
                    instead of the other is not merely a theoretical issue. If the concept of fair
                    criticism relates to liability, then the evidential burden would be on the party relying on it.
                    The legal burden, on the other hand, would be on
                    the Respondent to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the impugned statement
                    does not constitute fair criticism, and that it presents a real risk of
                    undermining public confidence in the administration of justice. If, however, the
                    concept of fair criticism constitutes a defence,
                    then the legal burden would shift to the alleged
                    contemnor to show on the balance of probabilities
                    that the impugned statement amounts to fair criticism.
79     In Singapore, although the court’s power
                    to punish for contempt of court is constitutionally and statutorily expressed
                    (see above at [17]), there is no statutory
                    provision (contra the ICCA) which provides
                    guidance on whether fair criticism relates to liability or operates as a formal
                    legal defence. In our view, given the ambiguity in case law and authorities from
                    other Commonwealth jurisdictions, the provision of any defence to scandalising contempt – which is itself
                    manifestly a question of policy – is more properly addressed by Parliament
                    (as was done in India via the ICCA in general, and the 2006 legislative
                    amendment of the ICCA in particular). However, until defences to contempt are
                    rigorously considered and legislatively provided for, it falls to the courts to
                    determine how the concept of fair criticism functions in practice under the
                    common law.
80     We prefer viewing the concept of fair
                    criticism as going towards liability for contempt
                    of court. Indeed, given that scandalising contempt is quasi-criminal in nature, this approach has the additional
                    benefit of ensuring that the alleged contemnor is not disadvantaged vis-à-vis the implications with regard to the burden of
                    proof (discussed above at [78]). At this
                    juncture, we note that a caveat is necessary: the precise characterisation of
                    the concept of fair criticism was not fully canvassed before us (see also above
                    at [59]). Accordingly, our views on this
                    point must necessarily be taken, to that extent, to be provisional in nature. We
                    do, however, apply – where the concept of fair criticism has been raised
                    – the approach we have stated at the outset of this paragraph to the
                    impugned statements in this particular appeal.
The applicable principles
81     Even if, as we have assumed, the concept of
                    fair criticism goes towards liability for contempt
                    of court, this by no means renders nugatory the various principles and factors
                    that have already been laid down in previous decisions – notably, in
                        Tan Liang Joo John, where Judith
                    Prakash J cited (at [14]) the
                    passage from Ambard (which is, in turn, cited
                    above at [60]) in support of her proposition
                    that “[f]air criticism does not amount to contempt of court”. The
                    learned judge then proceeded to pertinently observe as follows (at [15]-[23]):
15    It is apparent from
                            Lord Atkin’s reasoning, however, that there are limits to the
                            right of fair criticism. The criticism must be made in good faith and
                            must also be respectful. In determining whether mala fides has been proved, the court can take into
                            account a wide range of
                            factors.
16    One relevant factor
                            is the extent to which the allegedly fair criticism is supported by
                            argument and evidence. There must be some reason or basis for the
                            criticism or else it would amount to an unsupported attack on the court.
                            In the early English decision of Rex v
                                White (1808) 1 Camp 359n; 170 ER 985,
                            Grose J decided that the censure of a judge and jury in an article
                            constituted contempt of court because:
[The article] contained no reasoning or
                                discussion, but only declamation and invective …
                            written not with a view to elucidate the truth, but to injure the
                            characters of individuals, and to bring into hatred and contempt the
                            administration of justice in the country.
[emphasis added]
17    As Lord Russell
                            of Killowen CJ stated in The Queen v
                                Gray ( … ):
Judges and Courts are alike open to criticism, and if reasonable argument or expostulation is
                            offered against any judicial act as contrary to law or the public good,
                            no Court could or would treat that as contempt of Court.
18    Another relevant
                            factor is the manner in which the alleged criticism is made. The
                            criticism must generally be expressed in a temperate and dispassionate
                            manner, since an intention to vilify the courts is easily inferred where
                            outrageous and abusive language is used (see Nigel Lowe and Brenda
                            Sufrin, Borrie & Lowe: The Law of
                                Contempt (Butterworths, 3rd Ed, 1996)
                                (“Borrie & Lowe”) at
                            p 349). Lord Atkin stipulated that fair criticism needs to be
                            “respectful” (see Ambard ( … ). In Regina v Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis, Ex parte
                                Blackburn (No 2) [1968] 2 WLR 1204 (at 1207),
                            Salmon LJ stated that “no criticism of a judgment, however
                            vigorous, can amount to contempt of court, providing it keeps within the
                            limits of reasonable courtesy and good faith”. Similarly,
                                in Halsbury’s Laws of
                                England vol 9(1) (Butterworths, 4th Ed Reissue,
                            1998) it is said that (at para 433):
[C]riticism of a judge's conduct or of the conduct of a court, even if
                            strongly worded, is not a contempt provided that the criticism is
                                fair, temperate and made in
                            good faith and is not directed to the personal character of a judge or
                            to the impartiality of a judge or court.
[emphasis added]
19    Such temperate,
                            balanced criticism allows for rational debate about the issues raised
                            and thus may even contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the
                            administration of justice. Scurrilous and preposterous attacks, on the
                            other hand, are likely to have the opposite effect. As Mortimer VP
                            noted in Wong Yeung Ng v Secretary for
                                Justice [1999] 2 HKC 24 (“Wong Yeung Ng”) (at 44):
... Bona fide, balanced and justified criticism is susceptible to
                            reasoned answer or even acceptance. Sustained scurrilous, abusive
                            attacks made in bad faith, or conduct which challenges the authority of
                            the court, are not susceptible to reasoned answer. If they continue
                            unchecked they will almost certainly lead to interference with the
                            administration of justice as a continuing process.
20    Apart from the two
                            factors discussed above, courts have also taken into consideration such
                            factors as the party's attitude in court (see, for example, R v Vidal The Times (14 October 1922),
                            cited in Borrie & Lowe ( … ) at
                            p 349 n 5) and the number of instances of contemning conduct
                            (see, for example, Regina v Glanzer
                            (1963) 38 DLR (2d) 402). The list of relevant factors is not
                            closed. The court is entitled to take into account all the circumstances
                            of the case which in its view go towards showing bad
                        faith.
21    There is another, more
                            contentious, limit on the right of criticism. It appears from the
                            English authorities above that the act or words in question must not
                            impute improper motives to nor impugn the integrity, propriety and
                            impartiality of judges or the courts (see, for example, Ambard ( … ); Halsbury's Laws of England
                            ( … ); see also Borrie & Lowe at pp 350–352).
                            The rationale for this second limit is explained in Borrie & Lowe as follows (at
                            pp 350–351):
The courts are particularly sensitive to allegations of partiality, it
                            being a basic function of a judge to make an impartial judgment. The law
                            goes to some lengths to ensure that a judge has no personal interest in
                            the case, his decision being considered void and of no effect if bias is
                            proved: nemo judex in sua causa. Allegations of partiality are treated
                            seriously because they tend to undermine confidence in the basic
                            function of a judge.
22    The need to maintain
                            public confidence in the administration of justice must, however, be
                            balanced against the public interest in rooting out bias and impropriety
                            where it in fact occurs. We ought not to be so complacent as to assume
                            that judges and courts are infallible or impervious to human sentiment.
                            Thus, I have some sympathy for the view expressed in the New Zealand
                            case of Solicitor-General v Radio Avon Ltd
                            [1978] 1 NZLR 225 (at 231):
If this were the law [that allegations of improper motives, bias or
                            impropriety could not constitute fair criticism] then nobody could
                            publish a true account of the conduct of a judge if the matter published
                            disclosed that the judge had in fact acted from some improper motive.
                            Nor would it be possible, on the basis of facts truly stated, to make an
                            honest and fair comment suggesting some improper motive, such as
                            partiality or bias, without running the risk of being held in
                            contempt.
23    The fear of baseless imputations of bias or
                            impropriety is unfounded as the court is able to take into account
                            factors such as the existence of evidence for such allegations under the
                            requirement of bona fides. To my
                            mind, therefore, the second limit on the right to criticise is
                            unnecessary and potentially overly restrictive of legitimate
                            criticism.
82     The above extract was also cited in part by
                    the Judge in Shadrake 1 (at [70]). In our view, the factors enunciated in
                    the preceding paragraph (albeit by no means exhaustive) are very helpful in
                    assisting the court concerned to arrive at a conclusion as to whether or not the
                    impugned material is in contempt of court. Indeed, it is at least arguable that
                    Prakash J appeared, in Tan Liang Joo John, to
                    treat the concept of fair criticism as going towards liability rather than as an
                    independent defence.
83     We pause here to address two arguments raised
                    by the Respondent. The Respondent argued, first, that statements calling into
                    question the independence, impartiality and integrity of courts can never amount to fair criticism. Second, the Respondent
                    contended that allegations made outside the formal avenues (eg, the relevant court proceedings or the removal mechanism
                    provided for in Art 98(3) of the Constitution) can never amount to fair criticism.
84     We do not agree with these arguments. With
                    regard to the first argument (viz, limiting the
                    scope of fair criticism to criticism that does not
                    call into question the independence, impartiality and integrity of courts), we
                    are of the view that this overly limits the ambit
                    of fair criticism. This view was also taken by the Judge (see Shadrake 1 at [76])
                    and in Tan Liang Joo John (at [21]–[23]). Indeed, the Respondent’s argument appears to render
                    the concept of fair criticism nugatory, since most
                    allegedly contemptuous statements, by their very nature, call into question the
                    independence, impartiality and integrity of courts. We are fortified in taking
                    this view by the wealth of Commonwealth authority holding that an imputation of
                    judicial impartiality or impropriety is not ipso
                        facto scandalising contempt (see the High Court of Australia
                    decision of R v Nicholls (1911) 12 CLR 280 at
                    286; the New South Wales Supreme Court decision of Attorney-General for New South Wales v Mundey [1972]
                    2 NSWLR 887 at 910–911; the New Zealand Court of Appeal decision of
                        Radio Avon at 230–231; the English Court
                    of Appeal decision of Blackburn at 155–156;
                    and the Privy Council decision of Ahnee at
                    1314).
85     With regard to the second argument (viz, limiting the scope of fair criticism to criticism
                    raised through the formal avenues provided for in the law), we are of the view
                    that this is too onerous a limitation on the right to free speech. An alleged
                    contemnor should not be precluded from proffering fair criticism merely because
                    he or she did not have the means, or did not choose, to air his or her rationally supported criticisms via any of the formal
                    legal avenues. Indeed, we agree with the Judge’s view that resort to the
                    Constitutional inquiry process cannot be the only way in which courts and judges
                    can be criticised for wrongdoing. As the Judge noted in Shadrake 1 at [68]:
I also cannot agree with the suggestion made by the Phillimore Committee
                        and Chee Soon Juan ( … ), and
                        taken up by Ms Subramanian, that all discussions of judicial wrongdoing
                        must be directed to the Prime Minister or the Chief Justice, with the aim of
                        activating the removal mechanism provided for in Article 98(3) of the
                        Constitution. The public must be able to debate judicial conduct without
                        seising the removal mechanism in Article 98(3). Indeed, frequent resort
                        to the extraordinary mechanism in Article 98(3) cannot be healthy for
                        the independence of the judiciary.
A summary
86     Whilst the concept of fair criticism could
                    either go towards liability for contempt or
                    constitute a defence to what would otherwise be considered contemptuous conduct,
                    we prefer to utilise the concept in the former
                    sense. In approaching this concept, the court should bear in mind the various
                    factors set out (albeit non-exhaustively) in Tan Liang Joo
                        John (above at [81]). The
                    court ought always to apply this concept not only in relation to the precise facts and context but also bearing in mind the
                        following key question throughout: does the impugned statement
                    constitute fair criticism, or does it go on to cross the legal line by posing a
                    real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice
                    – in which case it would constitute contempt instead?
Our decision
The issue of liability
Introduction and context
87     Having stated the applicable principles of
                    law, we turn now to apply them to each of the eleven statements which the Judge
                    found to be in contempt of court. We also note that the Respondent has not filed
                    a cross-appeal against the decision of the Judge in the court below against
                    either liability or sentence.
88     Before considering each of the statements, the
                    relevant background and context should also be noted.
89     First, in so far as the scope of distribution/publication of the book is concerned,
                    counsel for the Appellant, Mr Ravi, had informed the Judge that almost
                    6,000 copies of the book had been sold internationally, especially at airports,
                    and that some copies were being circulated in Singapore (see Shadrake 2 at [27]). Mr Ravi further stated that (ibid):
In fact, in my office, I’ll be very honest, I’m not selling
                        the book. I have -- so many lawyers have come to take the books because my
                        client have provided a lot of copies from the distributors. I’m not
                        selling it but I have given lawyers gratuitously at the -- my clients have
                        been quite pleased that many lawyers are turning up in droves to buy -- to
                        have a copy of the book. Some would like to just make payment at their
                        volition.
90     Ms Kumarassamy Gunavathy, a senior
                    analyst with the Media Authority of Singapore, also deposed by affidavit that
                    she bought the book from Kinokuniya Book Store of Singapore Pte Ltd in Ngee Ann
                    City. She stated that the book had been sold in Singapore by several other
                    bookstores, including Select Books Pte Ltd and Mary Martin Book Sellers Pte Ltd.
                    The Appellant chose not to cross-examine Ms Gunavathy on her affidavit, and
                    therefore the contents of her affidavit are taken to be accepted by the parties
                    (see Shadrake 1 at [84]).
91     Second, the Judge noted that the Appellant
                    held himself out as an investigative journalist (see Shadrake 1 at [85]–[86]). A
                    perusal of the following parts of the book illustrates this point:
(a)     The announcement on the back cover
                        (“investigative journalism has come to mean the kind of brave
                        reporting that exposes injustice … Alan Shadrake’s hard-hitting
                        new book cuts through the façade of official silence to reveal disturbing
                        truths about Singapore’s use of the death
                    penalty”);
(b)     The bibliographical note (“Alan Shadrake is a renowned veteran
                        investigative journalist and author whose 50-year career has taken him
                        around the world”);
(c)     The preface (“meticulous search of legal files and
                        archived cases going back to 1963”, references to unnamed lawyers,
                        Central Narcotics Bureau officers and an anonymous librarian at the National
                        Library);
(d)     Extracts at page 21 (“yet another major scoop in my long career
                        as an investigative journalist”); and
(e)     A full page photograph of the Appellant posing
                        outside the Supreme Court of Singapore, captioned: “Author Alan
                        Shadrake spent months scrutinising court and other records all over
                        Singapore to unearth judicial scandals”.
92     Accordingly, the statements should be read as
                    being statements emanating from a person who has held himself out as an investigative journalist and their actual or
                    potential effect on the public should be assessed accordingly. It should be
                    noted that the Appellant does not disagree with the Judge’s holding on
                    this particular point.
93     We turn now to consider the eleven statements
                        seriatim in light of the legal principles set
                    out above.
The first statement
94     The first statement is found at page viii
                    of the book, and reads as follows:

Something sinister: how the Singapore
                            legal systemworks in secret and how politics, international trade and
                            business often determine who lives and who dies on the
                            gallows. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
95     The Judge was of the view that “legal
                    system” in this statement could not be read to include everything but the
                    courts; indeed, the Judge considered that the courts are the first thing that
                    comes to mind when a reference is made to a “legal system” (see
                        Shadrake 1 at [88]). Accordingly, he held that the first
                    statement constituted a clear accusation that the courts (and other parts of the
                    legal system) took politics, international trade and business into account in
                    determining who lives or dies on the gallows (ibid).
96     On the other hand, Mr Ravi argues, on
                    behalf of the Appellant, that the Judge misinterpreted the first statement. He
                    points out that nowhere in the context of this passage is there any reference to
                    improprieties on the part of a judge or a court. He also points out that in the
                    first substantive chapter of the book, ten pages down from the first
                    statement, the target of the Appellant’s criticism is the executive (narcotics police, CNB officer, and
                    prosecution). Accordingly, he contends that adopting a contextual
                    interpretation, the Appellant’s key argument in the first statement is
                    that prosecutorial decisions weigh heavily in the
                    outcome of certain death penalty cases. The Appellant further argues that the
                    Judge should have taken the same approach to “legal system” as
                    that in the third statement (which was found not to be contemptuous). The third
                    statement, found at page 27 of the book, reads:
It also put the spotlight on Singapore’s legal
                            system which many observers inside and outside the country
                        believe has been perverted to suit political and economic expediency.
                        [emphasis added]
97     Although Mr Ravi purported to rely on a
                        contextual approach, he has misapplied it. The first statement, whilst occurring at page
                    viii of the book, is actually located within the second page of the entire book itself. It is also part of the
                        Preface which attempts to give an overview of the book. More importantly, the context of
                    the first statement, viz the sentences which
                        immediately precede it on the same page, is as
                    follows:
But after months of relentless sleuthing I managed to
                            find the man who had hanged an estimated 1,000 men and
                        women mainly for murder and drug trafficking – and surprisingly get
                        him to talk. It led to a meticulous search of legal files
                            and archived cases going back to 1963 while interviewing
                        abolitionists and lawyers involved in many sensational
                            cases that largely went under-reported or not reported at
                        all. The result is a unique glimpse into the
                            deadly career of arguably the most prolific executioner in the world
                            – a man who believes he has helped keep Singapore one
                        of the safest places in the world. And something else.
                            Something sinister: how the Singapore legal system works in secret and
                            how politics, international trade and business often determine who lives
                            and who dies on the gallows. [emphasis added in italics and
                        bold italics]
98     There are, in fact, two main themes within the
                    very title of the book itself, viz, “Once a Jolly Hangman –
                    Singapore Justice in the Dock” [emphasis
                    added]. Both themes are reflected in the passage from the Preface quoted in the
                    preceding paragraph. The first theme is the examination of the particular career
                    of the “most prolific executioner in the world”. This first theme
                    is the leitmotif to the second broader – and main – theme of the
                    book (disingenuously slipped in, as it were, in the form of the subtitle
                        “Singapore Justice in the
                    Dock”), the distinction between the two themes being
                    emphasised by the short – but pithy and telling – sentence just
                    before the first statement itself, viz,
                    “[a]nd something else” (quoted in bold italics above). And that
                    “something else”, as the first statement puts it, concerns
                    “[s]omething sinister” [emphasis
                    added]. Further, part of that machinery which allegedly perpetrates such
                    undesirable results is “the Singapore legal
                        system” [emphasis added]. Even when read literally (as
                    opposed to contextually), the meaning is clear. Whilst Mr Ravi refers to
                    executive action as well as prosecutorial decisions, it is axiomatic (especially
                    to the average reasonable person who is a member of the public and, we might
                    add, a fortiori, to persons who are legally
                    trained) that a key institution in the
                    administration of justice is the courts (which, inter alia,
                        actually decide cases by applying the relevant
                    law to the evidence before them). And, as already alluded to earlier in this
                    paragraph, this meaning is buttressed by the subtitle of the book itself which
                    encapsulates this theme even more pithily and succinctly, viz, “Singapore Justice in the Dock”. Indeed, the
                    Appellant has placed the courts in his own
                    “dock” and has found the result, amongst other things,
                        “sinister”. If further support
                    is required for the interpretation just adopted, one need refer no further than
                    one page back, viz, to the very first page of the
                    Preface – and, indeed, to the very first
                        sentence thereof, which reads as follows: “It was never my
                    intention to go to Singapore and write a book about its
                        revered but much feared chief executioneror its justice system” [emphasis added in
                    italics and bold italics]. One might add that – whether by design or
                    inadvertence – the Appellant was clearly utilising the word
                    “or” in the sentence just quoted in a conjunctive sense, having regard to the sense as well as context
                    concerned. Finally, the back cover of the book (which also attempts to
                    encapsulate the themes of the book) drives home the interpretation we have
                    discerned in no uncertain terms –
                    inter alia, in the sentence which states that the
                    book “reveals thecruelty and imprudenceof anentire judicialsystem” [emphasis added in italics and bold
                    italics].
99     We would add that the third statement
                    (reproduced above at [96]) – albeit
                    referring to the term “legal system” – was held not to be contemptuous in the court below. We agree with
                    the Judge. Indeed, there is a fundamental difference between the third statement
                    and the first statement. In the latter, there is a clear reference to the
                    judicial function of determining liability and imposition of the death sentence
                    (“determine who lives and who dies on the gallows”), whereas there
                    is no such unambiguous reference in the former. Giving the Appellant the benefit
                    of the doubt, as the Judge rightly did, there is reasonable doubt that the third
                    statement actually referred to the courts. For the reasons given above, however,
                    the same cannot be said of the first statement.
100    Put simply, the first statement, whilst
                    short in length is long on meaning – a meaning that attributes by way of
                    summary and theme to, inter alia, the judiciary, the role of achieving sinister ends and by “[working] in secret” at
                    that. The first statement further suggests that the judiciary is influenced by
                    considerations relating to “politics, international trade and
                    business” when determining liability for capital offences. This is the
                        very antithesis of the impartial
                    administration of justice which the judiciary is pre-eminently responsible for
                    and which is expected as a given by the public itself. In our view, it is clear,
                    beyond a reasonable doubt, that there is a real risk that such a statement with
                    such a meaning would undermine public confidence in the administration of
                    justice in Singapore. We further note that fair criticism was not raised by the
                    Appellant with respect to the first statement.
The second statement
101    The second statement is found at page 3
                    of the book. It refers to the case of Julia Bohl, a German national who was
                    arrested and initially charged with the capital offence of trafficking more than
                    500 grams of cannabis, which was subsequently reduced to a non-capital
                    offence of trafficking in a smaller amount:
Shortly before a young German woman, known to have been running a
                        lucrative drugs ring in Singapore, was sentenced to only five years, of
                        which she served three for good behaviour – a slap on the wrist which
                        was arranged by the Singapore government under threat of economic reprisals
                        by the German government.
102    The Judge noted that the reference to a
                    sentence of “only five years” and that it was a “slap on
                    the wrist arranged by the Singapore government” constituted a clear
                    reference to the courts, since sentencing is generally (and was indeed in that
                    case) the province of the courts (see Shadrake 1 at [89]). Further, the Judge rejected the Appellant’s explanation
                    of the second statement in which the latter purported to rely on page 142
                    of Mr Subhas Anandan’s (“Anandan”) autobiography
                    (Subhas Anandan, The Best I Could (Marshall
                    Cavendish Editions, 2009)). In the Judge’s view, Anandan had merely stated
                    that the prosecution could not have preferred a
                    capital charge because the amount of cannabis seized was below the threshold of
                    500 grams (see Shadrake 1 at [90]). Accordingly the Judge found that the
                    second statement referred to the courts and was therefore
                contemptuous.
103    The Appellant contends that a fuller reading
                    of Anandan’s book belies the interpretation arrived at by the Judge, as
                    follows:
(a)     First, the Appellant argues that
                        Anandan did in fact convey the message that the diplomatic negotiations
                        played a part in the change of charge. This may be gleaned from two key
                        passages at pages 142 and 143 of Anandan’s book. To an ordinary
                        reader, the suggestion from Anandan’s book is that the Australian
                        authorities acted too slowly in lobbying on behalf of Nguyen, and therefore
                        stood no chance of saving his life, whereas the German embassy acted early
                        and effectively in negotiating a reduction in the charges put to Bohl.
                        Accordingly, the Judge’s criticism of the Appellant’s
                        “attitude towards his sources” is unwarranted, since
                        Anandan’s book, which includes a first-hand account of the Bohl case,
                        highlights the links between diplomatic negotiations and prosecutorial
                        decision-making.
(b)     Second, the word “court” appears nowhere in the
                        impugned passage. By contrast, the “Singapore government” is
                        clearly referenced in the passage.
(c)     Third, while it is the case that sentencing is generally
                        “the province of the courts”, courts can only sentence on
                        charges which are brought and proven by the prosecution. The sting in the
                        Appellant’s attack as borne out by Anandan’s first-hand
                        testimony is that there was diplomatic influence in the bringing of charges
                        against Bohl, not in the adjudication of her case. A contextual view
                        supports this – the Appellant refers at page 8 to the Bohl case
                        as one in which “[t]he charges against her were suddenly – and
                        ‘miraculously’ – modified”; again a reference to
                        the charging decision, not the adjudication of the
                case.
104    In our view, it has not been proven, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the Appellant
                    had referred to the courts in the second statement
                    simply by virtue of his reference to a sentence of “only five
                    years” being “a slap on the wrist arranged by the Singapore
                    government”. A contextual reading of the second statement suggests that
                    the Appellant could have been referring to how the Singapore government chose to
                    bring reduced charges against Bohl. While the Judge is undoubtedly correct that
                    sentencing is within the province of the courts, the second statement could be
                    read as being a reference to the diplomatic influence in the prosecutorial decision to bring modified charges against Bohl.
                    In our view, an average reasonable reader reading the second statement would be
                    left with the impression that prosecutorial discretion is sometimes subject to
                    diplomatic influence. This is especially so when one considers page 8 of
                    the book (in the concluding portion of the chapter containing the second
                    statement):
This particular execution came at an awkward time for the city state when,
                        around the same time a German citizen, Julia Suzanne Bohl, who had been
                        under surveillance for months by narcotics police as a high profile drug
                        trafficker in Singapore, managed to escape the death penalty through
                        political and diplomatic pressure from Germany. The charges against her were suddenly – and
                            ‘miraculously’ – modified. The charges were reduced to a non-mandatory death
                        penalty level and she was given five years of which she served only three.
                        [emphasis added]
105    Accordingly, it cannot, in our view, be said that the second statement poses a
                    real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice in
                    so far as the Respondent has failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the
                    logically prior step that the second statement refers to the courts. In other
                    words, the second statement does not scandalise the
                        courts.
The fourth statement
106    The fourth statement, at page 100 of
                    the book, refers to the case of Maria Krol-Hmelak, who, together with one Peter
                    Johnson, was acquitted of drug trafficking by the late Lai Kew Chai J (see
                        Shadrake 1 at [95]). The fourth statement (in bold italics)
                    reads as follows:
Following final submissions at the 28th session [of the trial] which
                        began on 29 October, Judge Lai suddenly announced them both not
                        guilty. Krol-Hmelak could hardly believe her ears. She was free. Completely
                        stunned she burst into tears sobbing ‘What’s happening?
                        What’s happening?’ She had been in jail for two and a half years
                        expecting she would end up on the gallows. Instead she heard cries from
                        embassy officials: ‘You’re free! You are free!’ It was an
                        extraordinary end to the case in which few believed she would not be found
                        guilty and hanged. The ‘I didn’t know’ plea had seemingly
                        and perhaps miraculously worked for her but in Singapore
                            funny things tend to happen on the way to their courtrooms just as funny
                            things happen when they arrive in a theatre to perform in a comedy
                            show. However, in Singapore it has nothing to do with
                        humour.
In fact, many believe that Krol-Hmelak was guilty. But to hang her
                        following the uproar over van Damme’s death sentence might not have
                        been wise. So it was very likely a government verdict
                            not a judicial one. Singapore’s judiciary is not free to decide
                            who should live and who should die when vital business, economic and
                            diplomatic issues are at stake.
[emphasis added in bold italics]
107    In so far as the first portion in bold
                    italics is concerned (“the first portion”), the Judge held that
                    the Appellant’s comparison of the legal process to a comedy is clearly
                    mischievous when read alongside his description of how the judge
                    “suddenly” acquitted Krol-Hmelak, how her plea of ignorance
                    “had seemingly and perhaps miraculously worked for her”, and his
                    allegation that “funny things tend to happen” on the way to
                    courtrooms (see Shadrake 1 at [98]). In response to this, the Appellant
                    contends that the Judge had misread the plain meaning of the first portion of
                    the text in bold italics, arguing that it could only refer to events which
                        precede court hearings and not events which
                    take place in the court itself, as the phrasing is that “funny things
                    happen on the way to their courtrooms”. According to the Appellant, it
                    would require a stretch in reasoning to suggest that the funny things must
                    relate to events inside a courtroom.
108    With regard to the second portion in bold
                    italics (“… was very likely a government verdict not a judicial
                    one. Singapore’s judiciary is not free to decide who should live and who
                    should die when vital business, economic and diplomatic issues are at
                    stake”) (“the second portion”), the Judge was of the view
                    that this was the more serious allegation in the context of the fourth
                    statement. The Judge further noted that the Appellant’s affidavit had no
                    explanation for his plain allegation that the court ordered the acquittals under
                    pressure from the government or as a result of the dictates of business,
                    economics and diplomacy, rather than the rule of law (see Shadrake 1 at [98]). In response to this, the Appellant contends that the
                    statement was couched in qualified terms (viz,
                    “it was very likely”), and that this statement was followed by a
                    lengthy discussion on the course of the prosecution and trial. The Appellant
                    thus contends that this second portion amounts to fair criticism.
109    We do not think that there is merit in the
                    Appellant’s arguments. With regard to the first portion, it is admitted
                    that, on a literal reading, the reference to funny things happening on the way to the courtrooms may be thought to introduce
                    reasonable doubt as to whether reference was made to the courts as opposed to
                    the prosecution. However, we agree with the Judge’s observation that the
                    Appellant had mischievously juxtaposed several statements: an average reasonable
                    reader reading the statement would have been left with the impression that Lai
                    Kew Chai J had played a part in exculpating Krol-Hmelak for diplomatic
                    – and not legal - reasons. We would additionally
                    emphasise that, read in context, the Appellant could not have been commenting on prosecutorial discretion because there was no
                        mention that Krol-Hmelak’s charges were modified, contrary
                    to the case of Julia Bohl (discussed above at [101]–[105]). Neither
                    could it be suggested that the reference to the judiciary not being “free
                    to decide who should live and who should die” was merely a general
                    critique of the mandatory nature of the death
                    penalty in Singapore. Such a reading clearly ignores the surrounding context
                    which is concerned with the judge’s
                    acquittal of Krol-Hmelak. Accordingly, any impropriety suggested by the
                    Appellant in the fourth statement must have been aimed squarely at the judiciary.
110    This is reinforced by the second portion
                    where the Appellant suggests that the acquittal of Krol-Hmelak was a
                    “government verdict not a judicial
                    one” [emphasis added]. This makes clear reference to the act of verdict-giving which is solely within the province of
                    the judiciary. When read together with the role attributed to Lai Kew
                    Chai J (“Judge Lai suddenly
                        announced them both not guilty” [emphasis added]), as well
                    as the fact that there was no mention of any prosecutorial decision on charges
                    being made at this stage, it is clear, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the
                    fourth statement refers to the judiciary.
111    The Appellant argues that the fourth
                    statement constitutes “fair criticism” by virtue of the subsequent
                    reference to defence counsel’s notes at the trial of Krol-Hmelak. However,
                    it is our view that this does not constitute a rational basis for the Appellant
                    to have made the fourth statement, in so far as it is not “supported by
                    argument and evidence” (see Tan Liang Joo
                        John at [16], quoted at
                        [81] above). The defence counsel’s
                    notes, as reproduced at pages 101 and 102 of the book, contain no assertion
                    whatsoever that there was any impropriety on the part of Lai Kew Chai J.
                    Accordingly, the fourth statement does not amount to fair
                criticism.
112    In the end, it is clear beyond a reasonable
                    doubt that the fourth statement poses a real risk of undermining public
                    confidence in the administration of justice in Singapore.
The fifth statement
113    The fifth statement, at page 3 of the
                    book, is general in nature and reads as follows:
Many of the cases I have investigated in this book show that justice in
                        Singapore is patently biased against the weak and disadvantaged while
                        favouring the wealthy and privileged.
114    The Judge held that “justice in
                    Singapore” is not dispensed by the prosecution; it is dispensed by the
                    courts (see Shadrake 1 at [102]). He further noted that, when read
                    together with the allegation of “government verdict” in
                    Krol-Hmelak (see the fourth statement) and his allegations of favouritism in the
                    sentences of Dinesh Bhatia (see the seventh statement) and Andrew Veale (see the
                    eighth statement), it becomes apparent that the fifth statement encompasses
                    cases where the courts are alleged to have favoured the wealthy and the
                    privileged (see Shadrake 1 at [102]).
115    Consistent with our analysis of the first
                    statement, we agree with the reasoning of the Judge. Whilst “justice in
                    Singapore” may encompass a number of organisations (including the
                    Attorney-General’s Chambers, which exercises, inter
                        alia, prosecutorial discretion), the fifth statement
                    unambiguously refers to the institution which administers justice in a judicial context, viz, the
                    judiciary. Following from this, the fifth statement alleges impropriety on the
                    part of the judiciary, inasmuch as the judiciary is “patently biased
                    against the weak and disadvantaged while favouring the wealthy and
                    privileged”. This poses a real risk of undermining public confidence in
                    the administration of justice for the statement expresses the very antithesis of what the judiciary is sworn to do: to
                    discharge judicial duties in accordance with the Constitution and the law,
                    without fear or favour, affection or ill-will.
116    We note that the Appellant does not raise
                    any arguments of fair criticism with regard to the fifth statement. For
                    completeness, however, we would note that there is no basis for the Appellant to
                    contend that the fifth statement was fair criticism because there is no rational
                    basis presented by the Appellant for the making of the fifth statement. This
                    does not contradict the Judge’s finding in Shadrake 1 (at [104]–[105]) that
                    the sixth statement is not contemptuous. The sixth statement was specifically addressed
                    to the incidence of the death penalty, not whether
                    the courts are biased against certain groups in imposing the death penalty. This
                    is in contradistinction to the fifth statement, which is a broader allegation of
                    the judiciary’s bias in general.
The seventh statement
117    The seventh statement, comprising three
                    passages at pages 140–141 of the book, refers to the case of
                        Dinesh Singh Bhatia s/o Amarjeet Singh v Public
                        Prosecutor [2005] 3 SLR(R) 1 (“Bhatia”), where V K Rajah J
                    reduced the sentence of the defendant to eight months from the 12 months
                    imposed by the District Court. The three passages in the seventh statement (in
                    bold italics below) are found in two paragraphs, which commence by referring to
                    a drug raid on 7 October 2004 before continuing, as follows:
Of the arrests that night, the most surprising was that of a former High
                        Court judge’s son, Dinesh Singh Bhatia, 35, a private equity investor.
                        His father, Amarjeet Singh, a former judicial commissioner and also a senior
                        counsel, served on the United Nations war crimes tribunal for the Balkans.
                        Dinesh’s mother, Dr Kanwaljit Soin, was a former Nominated MP and
                        orthopaedic surgeon, and director of the London-based Help Age
                        International, a global network helping the disadvantaged elderly. Dinesh
                        was charged with cocaine consumption, and was facing 10 years behind
                        bars or fined S$20,000 or both. But funny things often
                            seem to happen on the way to court houses in Singapore. Instead of
                            getting ten years and a heavy fine, Bhatia, was jailed for only
                            12 months for consuming cocaine. His lawyer, a
                        People’s Action Party MP, K. Shanmugam, had told the court that
                        Bhatia was not an addict at all. He was given a drug by a friend but
                        ‘did not know that it was cocaine’ although he had a
                        ‘fleeting suspicion’ the substance could be illegal. ‘He
                        took in only impulse’, said Shanmugam. An internet
                            blogger wryly commented: ‘I would not remotely suggest that it
                            might have helped Bhatia’s case that his father was a judge, and
                            his mother a former Singapore Member of Parliament. Ignorance of the law
                            is no defence!’
So should Bhatia, a sophisticate about town, have known he was sticking
                        something illegal up his nose? On 7 April 2005, according to court
                        records, Bhatia appealed against his 12-month sentence and asked for a heavy
                        fine instead. Calling the previous sentence ‘excessive’, the
                        appeal judge, VK Rajah, said that the district judge erred by not
                        tailoring the sentence to fit the offender and failed to ‘attach
                        adequate weight and merit to all the relevant mitigating factors.’ He
                        said the trial judge did not adequately consider the fact that
                        Bhatia’s consumption was neither planned nor purchased.
                        Justice Rajah then cut Bhatia’s sentence to eight months.
                            On 7 July 2005, The Straits Times reported that
                            Bhatia was ‘now at home serving out his sentence wearing an
                            electronic tag he cannot remove’. It did not say when this
                            favourable treatment began. [emphasis added in bold
                        italics]
118    The Judge held that the seventh statement
                    was in contempt of court. In that statement, the Appellant describes
                    Bhatia’s initial sentence as “only 12 months” as
                    opposed to “10 years and a heavy fine”, refers to the
                    identities and social position of Bhatia’s parents, refers to the
                    sarcastic comment of an internet blogger that Bhatia’s sentence had
                    nothing to do with the identities of his parents, and describes Bhatia’s
                    home detention as “favourable treatment” (see Shadrake 1 at [107]). The Judge was of the view that the juxtaposition of
                    facts is mischievous, and the unmistakable insinuation is that Bhatia was shown
                    favouritism both in his sentence and the way he served it (ibid).
119    The Judge noted further that, despite the
                    Appellant confirming that he had read Rajah J’s judgment in Bhatia, the Appellant did not attempt to refer to and
                    refute the reasons given in Rajah J’s written judgment when such
                    refutation would have been an obvious thing to do if one was alleging that the
                    sentence meted out was influenced by favouritism (see Shadrake 1 at [109]).
120    We agree with the Judge. The allegation of
                    favouritism is clear from both the facts and context of the seventh statement
                    and the tone of mock irony does not even begin to mask this allegation but, on
                    the contrary, exacerbates it. The central thrust of the seventh statement is
                    clear and is centred on, inter alia, the premise
                    that the judiciary is susceptible to (and indeed practises) nepotism at the
                    expense of judicial impartiality and integrity. In the circumstances, it is
                    clear, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the seventh statement does constitute a
                    contempt of court. Above all, the public takes the objectivity of the judicial
                    process as a given – which is simultaneously
                    a process that does not (and cannot) brook even a hint of favouritism. It is
                    clear to us that an average reasonable person would realise what the Appellant
                    was alleging.
121    We are cognisant of the fact that the
                    Appellant had admitted in the court below that his statement that Bhatia
                    “was jailed for only 12 months” instead of “getting
                    10 years and a heavy fine” was a mistake (see Shadrake 1 at [110]) – in other words, the Appellant had conceded that
                    he erred in fact with regard to the first portion of the seventh statement in
                    bold italics (see above at [117]). However,
                    this portion cannot be read in isolation but must be read together with the
                    other portions as an integrated whole. By parity of reasoning, the
                    Appellant’s qualification found just after the seventh statement at
                    page 141, read in its context (rather than in isolation), is
                    disingenuous:
But during my meeting with Anandan he denied that Bhatia received special
                        treatment because of his family connections. ‘He was treated no
                        differently than anyone else facing such charges’, he said.
122    As the Judge aptly observed, the attempt by
                    the Appellant to mix-and-match various observations was but a thinly veiled
                    disguise of what constituted the true thrust of the statement itself, viz, an allegation of favouritism on the part of the
                    judiciary. Even then, phrases such as “funny things often seem to happen
                    on the way to court houses in Singapore” do not even begin to serve as a
                    mask, as we have seen with a similar approach (as well as turn of phrase) with
                    regard to the fourth statement (above at [109]).
123    Accordingly, it has been demonstrated beyond
                    a reasonable doubt that the seventh statement poses a real risk of undermining
                    public confidence in the administration of justice. We note that the statement
                    does not constitute fair criticism as the Appellant did not evidence a rational
                    basis for it. In particular, we endorse the Judge’s pertinent observation
                    that the Appellant did not attempt to refer to and refute the reasons given in
                    Rajah J’s written judgment (see Shadrake 1 at [109]).
The eighth statement
124    The eighth statement, at page 141 of
                    the book, refers to the cases of Andrew Veale and Penelope Pang, two other drug
                    consumers who were caught in the same operation as Dinesh Bhatia (see Shadrake 1 at [112]). It reads as follows:
Briton Andrew Veale, a top financial broker and a 10 year resident,
                        who drove a Rolls Royce often with his Singaporean girlfriend, Penelope Pang
                        Su-yin, 35, daughter of the organiser of the Miss Universe pageant, were
                        next to appear in court. They too got off lightly with jail sentences
                        amounting to no more than eight months with remission. Veale, was a broker
                        with Structured Credit Desk dealing in derivatives and financial products,
                        and the sort of people Singapore needs.
125    The Judge held that the assertions that
                    Veale and Pang “got off lightly with jail sentences amounting to no more
                    than eight months with remission” and that Veale “was the sort of
                    people Singapore needs” clearly insinuate that Veale and Pang were given
                    light sentences by the court due to extraneous considerations (see Shadrake 1 at [113]). He noted further that there was no rational basis for
                    the Appellant’s insinuation that the court sentencing Veale gave him a
                    light sentence because he was “the sort of people Singapore needs”
                        (ibid).
126    The Appellant sought to characterise this
                    statement as a straightforward recitation of Veale and Pang’s sentence
                    with a sober assessment that they “got off lightly”.
127    We reject this argument. It is our view that
                    the eighth statement, which insinuates that a light sentence was given by the
                    court due to extraneous considerations, poses, beyond a reasonable doubt, a real
                    risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice. We note
                    that the Appellant did not raise any argument of fair criticism with regard to
                    this particular statement. For completeness, however, we would note that the
                    eighth statement cannot amount to fair criticism for the reasons given by the
                    Judge in the court below (ibid).
The ninth, tenth and eleventh statements
128    The ninth to eleventh statements can be
                    taken together. They refer to the case of Vignes Mourthi, who was convicted of
                    drug trafficking and sentenced to death (see Public
                        Prosecutor v Vignes s/o Mourthi & Anor
                    [2002] SGHC 240, affirmed in Vignes s/o Mourthi v
                        Public Prosecutor [2003] 3 SLR(R) 105) (see Shadrake 1 at [115]). The statements are, respectively, as follows:
(a)     The ninth statement, at
                        page 162 of the book, reads as follows:
No doubt many members of Singapore’s judiciary were also aware
                            of what was going on behind the scenes concerning the rape, sodomy and
                            corruption charges hanging over Rajkumar, yet not one of them had the
                            guts to speak out in protest.
(b)     The tenth
                        statement, at page 163 of the book, reads as follows:
But I can reveal, following intensive inquiries and talking in
                            confidence to several lawyers on condition that I would not expose them
                            to the authorities in any way, that the high echelons of the judiciary
                            and prosecution from the Attorney General down knew all about Rajkumar
                            and were intent on keeping his evil, corrupt deeds under wraps until
                            Vignes Mourthi was hanged.
(c)     The eleventh
                        statement, at page 165 of the book, the last page of the chapter on the
                        case of Vignes Mourthi, reads as follows:
Here the words of the Nobel Laureate, Amartya Sen, seem
                            the most appropriate postscript to the sordid tale of the death of
                            Vignes Mourti [sic]:
… Democracy becomes dysfunctional when the bureaucracy, the
                                judiciary, the legislature, the private sector, the police and the
                                military all use their power to enrich themselves and advance their
                                own interests at the expense of civil society. Laws not
                                withstanding, corruption undermines the rule of law.
129    The statements set out in the preceding
                    paragraph relate to the fact that Sgt Rajkumar from the Central Narcotics
                    Bureau was under investigation for offences under the Prevention of Corruption
                    Act (Cap 241, 2002 Rev Ed) at about the same time as he was giving evidence
                    in Mourthi’s case (see Shadrake 1 at
                        [116]). Sgt Rajkumar was
                    subsequently convicted on the same corruption offences (see Public Prosecutor v S Rajkumar [2005] SGDC 77). The charges
                    related, among other things, to offering a bribe to a woman he was alleged to
                    have raped, in an attempt to induce her to withdraw her complaints (ibid). This, the Appellant alleges, was not disclosed to
                    the trial judge in Mourthi’s case.
130    The Appellant argues that the ninth, tenth
                    and eleventh statements bookend a crucial and carefully transcribed conversation
                    between the Appellant and Anandan (who represented both Mourthi and
                    Sgt Rajkumar). The Appellant further submits that the totality of the
                    analysis (at pages 148–165 of the book) represents a carefully
                    researched and finely worded consideration of a potential miscarriage of
                    justice. Accordingly, the Appellant argues that reasonable inferences are drawn
                    (deriving from statistical analysis of the make-up of the judiciary documented
                    by Ross Worthington in “Between Hermes and Themis: An Empirical Study of
                    the Contemporary Judiciary in Singapore” (2001) 28(4) Journal of Law
                    and Society 490). The statements, the Appellant argues, by no means exceed the
                    bounds of fair criticism required for establishing liability for scandalising
                    contempt.
131    We reject these arguments. In our view, the
                    ninth, tenth and eleventh statements are clear instances of scandalising
                    contempt. As observed by the Judge, the Appellant stated that the high echelons
                    of the judiciary, by which he must mean the judges of the Supreme Court,
                        knew about Sgt Rajkumar’s misdeeds
                    and were deliberately and culpably suppressing the fact of the investigation
                    into his acts and the proceedings against him until after Mourthi was executed
                    (see Shadrake 1 at [120]). In the circumstances, it is clear, beyond a reasonable
                    doubt, that there is a real risk of undermining public confidence in the
                    administration of justice.
132    We also agree with the Judge’s
                    analysis that there is no rational basis for the ninth, tenth and eleventh
                    statements. The Appellant asserted that the subordinate judiciary, which deals
                    with 95% of the cases in Singapore, and the prosecutors, are both drawn from the
                    ranks of the Legal Service, and that in light of this, the judiciary would have
                    known of the proceedings against Sgt Rajkumar (see Shadrake 1 at [121]).
                    Reference was made to the fact that some of the judges of the Supreme Court were
                    elevated from the subordinate courts, or had served stints at the
                    Attorney-General’s Chambers (see Shadrake 1 at [121]). The Judge rejected this as being too incredible and
                    attenuated to form a rational basis for the Appellant’s grave assertion
                    that the trial judge and the high echelons of the judiciary knew of
                    Sgt Rajkumar’s misdeeds and were complicit in the suppression of
                    possibly exculpatory evidence in a capital case (see Shadrake 1 at [121]).
133    Finally, we share the Judge’s view
                    that the quotation from Amartya Sen was clearly directed at the Vignes Mourthi
                    case, as is evident from the phrase (“most appropriate postscript to the
                    sordid tale of the death of Vignes Mourti [sic]”). The Appellant was clearly insinuating (via the
                    aforementioned quotation) that the Singapore judges “use their power to
                    enrich themselves and advance their own interests at the expense of civil
                    society” (see Shadrake 1 at [122]). A statement of this nature evidently
                    poses, beyond a reasonable doubt, a real risk of undermining public confidence
                    in the administration of justice. We therefore agree that this statement is in
                    contempt of court.
The thirteenth statement
134    Although the Judge analysed the thirteenth
                    and fourteenth statements together, we propose to analyse the statements
                    separately as they emanate from different chapters in the book.
135    The thirteenth statement is to be found at
                    page 217 of the book, and reads as follows:

The absence of independence in a compliant
                            judiciary and a media silenced through state ownership and
                        the ever-present threat of defamation and libel suits has created a climate
                        for the suppression of basic political freedoms. [emphasis added]
136    This particular statement explicitly states
                    that the judiciary is compliant and not independent, and accordingly (indeed,
                    obviously, in our view) presents a real risk of undermining public confidence in
                    the administration of justice. As noted by the Judge (see Shadrake 1 at [126]), similar statements have been held to be contemptuous in
                    other decisions, for example, Attorney-General v Pang Cheng
                        Lian [1974–1976] SLR(R) 271; Zimmerman; Wain; Lingle; Chee Soon Juan;
                    and Hertzberg (although this should not be taken
                    to mean that criticisms of the judiciary’s conduct and partiality should
                    as a matter of course constitute contempt: see [84] above). Accordingly, the focus vis-à-vis the thirteenth statement is the applicability of
                    the concept of fair criticism.
137    In making the thirteenth statement, the
                    Appellant refers to the report of the International Bar Association’s
                    Human Rights Institute, Prosperity versus individual rights?
                        Human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Singapore (July
                    2008) (“the IBA Report”) (see Shadrake 1 at [127]). The extract of the IBA Report quoted by the Judge (see
                        Shadrake 1 at [130]) is as follows (see page 70 of the
                    IBA Report):
… in cases involving PAP [People’s Action Party] litigants or
                        PAP interests, there are concerns about an actual or apparent lack of
                        impartiality and/or independence, which casts doubt on the decisions made in
                        such cases. Although this may not go so far as claimed by some
                        non-governmental organisations, which allege that the judiciary is entirely
                        controlled by the will of the executive, there are sufficient reasons to
                        worry about the influence of the executive over judicial decision making.
                        Regardless of any actual interference, the reasonable suspicion of
                        interference is sufficient. In addition, it appears that some of the
                        objective characteristics of judicial independence, including security of
                        tenure, separation from the executive branch and administrative independence
                        may be absent from the Singapore judicial system.
138    As is clear, although the discussion of the
                    IBA Report does precede the paragraph in which the thirteenth statement is
                    found, the latter is more general in nature. This
                    is not surprising as it occurs in the very last chapter of the book where, broad
                    themes are – as is usual with final chapters - drawn
                    together in an overall conclusion (indeed, this particular chapter is entitled
                    “Whither Singapore?”). In this regard, it bears quoting in full
                    the entire paragraph in which the thirteenth statement is located (the
                    thirteenth statement is in bold italics in the passage that follows):
Today Singapore is an extremely wealthy, globalised city-state. But far
                        from giving its political elite the ‘confidence and maturity’ to
                        open up the political system, to tolerate dissent and criticism and to
                        protect fundamental human rights, the PAP government has actually chosen to
                        go in the opposite direction. It has solidified its near monopoly on the
                        political apparatus of the state by perverting the rights guaranteed in the
                        Constitution through the passage and arbitrary enforcement of
                        unconstitutional domestic laws. The absence of
                            independence in a compliant judiciary and a media silenced through state
                            ownership and the ever-present threat of defamation and libel suits has
                            created a climate for the suppression of basic political
                            freedoms. And in that context there is simply no meaningful debate about the death penalty and its
                            repercussions. [emphasis added]
139    In our view, the paragraph just quoted is
                    general in nature. The reference, therefore, to “[t]he absence of
                    independence in a compliant judiciary” appears to be a general one that
                    is a sweeping indictment of the judiciary in the final chapter of the book. The
                    seriousness of this allegation calls for a highly cogent rational basis (see
                        Shadrake 1 at [72]). In this regard, the IBA Report, which
                    focuses on defamation without the slightest
                    reference to the death penalty, cannot provide a rational basis for the
                    insinuation that debate – and a fortiori
                    “meaningful debate” – about the death
                        penalty is “suppress[ed]” by a “compliant
                    judiciary”. The thirteenth statement therefore does not constitute fair
                    criticism. In fact, as noted in [136]
                    above, it poses, beyond a reasonable doubt, a real risk of undermining public
                    confidence in the administration of justice, and accordingly amounts to
                    scandalising contempt.
The fourteenth statement
140    The fourteenth statement is found at
                    page 207 of the book. It reads as follows:
The ruling party in Singapore often sues those who dare oppose it on
                        trumped up defamation charges, forcing many into bankruptcy or exile.
141    The Appellant argued in the court below that
                    this statement was directed at the political tactics of the ruling party. The
                    Judge rejected this argument on the basis that the Appellant’s insinuation
                    that “trumped up defamation charges” are nevertheless successful
                    “in forcing many into bankruptcy or exile” is clearly directed at
                    the courts (see Shadrake 1 at [126]).
142    In our view, this particular statement is
                    similar to the second statement inasmuch as there is no reference (either on a
                    literal or contextual reading) to the judiciary as such. Indeed, the focus
                    appears to be on “[t]he ruling party in Singapore”. This
                    interpretation is buttressed by the phrase “often sues” as well as
                    by the sentences immediately before and after (which discuss executive –
                    as opposed to judicial – action). Whilst it is true that defamation as
                    well as bankruptcy proceedings do involve the courts, it appears that the
                    Appellant’s focus is (as just mentioned) on whom he perceives are
                        the initiators of such proceedings and, more
                    importantly, their motives for initiating such proceedings (hence, the use of
                    words such as “trumped up” and “charges”, the latter
                    word of which is more appropriate to the criminal context (although it is
                    unclear whether the Appellant was consciously utilising the analogy of criminal
                    prosecution)). It is true that the fourteenth statement could also be
                    interpreted as referring to the courts in so far as the courts must arrive at
                    decisions that have the result of “forcing many into bankruptcy or
                    exile”. On yet another interpretation, one could state that the courts
                    would have arrived at the decisions they did based on the relevant principles of
                    law, although (in the Appellant’s view) this would have the effect just
                    mentioned. However, there is, in our view, no clear reference to the courts as
                    such. Put simply, the Respondent has not proved, beyond a
                        reasonable doubt, that the fourteenth statement is in contempt of
                    court and we so hold.
Conclusion
143    In summary, we agree with the Judge’s
                    findings that the first, fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh
                    and thirteenth statements are contemptuous. These statements scandalise the very
                    core of the mission and function of the judiciary. More than that, their
                    cumulative effect reveals a marshalling of a series of fabrications, distortions
                    and false imputations in relation to the courts of Singapore. While the
                    Appellant is free to engage in the debate for or against capital punishment, he
                    is not free to deliberately and systematically scandalise the courts in
                    attempting to substantiate his case against capital punishment.
144    However, we differ from the Judge’s
                    findings in that we do not find the second and
                    fourteenth statements to be contemptuous.
145    We turn now to the issue of
                sentence.
The issue of sentence
The applicable principles
146    It is important to note at the outset that
                    sentencing, by its very nature, is not an exact science. Neither is it –
                    nor ought it ever to be - an arbitrary exercise of raw
                    discretion. The court concerned follows guidelines. However, guidelines are
                    precisely what they mean and must not be applied as if they are writ in
                    jurisprudential stone.
147    Some of the more common sentencing
                    guidelines or factors in the context of contempt proceedings include the
                    following: the culpability of the contemnor; the nature and gravity of the
                    contempt (see, eg, Tan Liang
                        Joo John at [31]); the
                    seriousness of the occasion on which the contempt was committed (ibid); the number of contemptuous statements made (see,
                        eg, Zimmerman at
                        [51] and Hertzberg at [59]); the
                    type and extent of dissemination of the contemptuous statements; the importance
                    of deterring would-be contemnors from following suit (see, eg, Tan Liang Joo John at
                        [31]); whether the contemnor is a
                    repeat offender (see, eg, Hertzberg at [59]); and
                    whether or not the contemnor was remorseful (this particular factor being
                    embodied paradigmatically in a sincere apology (see, eg, Hertzberg at [59] and Tan Liang Joo
                        John at [39])). However,
                    the categories of guidelines or factors are obviously not closed and much would
                    depend, in the final analysis, on the precise facts and context
                    concerned.
148    What is clear, in our view, however, is that
                        there is no starting-point of imprisonment for the
                        offence of scandalising contempt. The authority that is
                    apparently to the contrary, viz, Chee Soon Juan did not, on a close reading of the
                    decision itself, lay down such a broad and sweeping proposition. Indeed, it is
                    only logical and commonsensical that the sanction imposed – whether it be
                    a fine or imprisonment (or a combination of both) – will depend, in the
                    final analysis, on the precise facts and context of each case.
Our decision
149    We have differed somewhat from the Judge on
                    the issue of liability inasmuch as we have found that nine (instead of eleven)
                    of the fourteen impugned statements are in contempt of court. However, the nine
                    statements that are in contempt of court constitute serious acts of scandalising
                    contempt, as we have noted above at [143].
                    Indeed, as the Judge aptly pointed out in Shadrake 2 at [28],
                    the sheer breadth and gravity of the Appellant’s allegations of judicial
                    impropriety were
… without precedent in terms of their specificity, the number of
                        judges targeted (the whole Supreme Court bench in Vignes Mourthi’s
                        case) and their gravity, pertaining as they did to cases concerning the life
                        and liberty of those who come before the courts. In particular they surpass
                        the allegations made in Chee Soon Juan
                        ( … ) and Tan Liang Joo
                        ( … ), where sentences of imprisonment were imposed.
                        …
150    Further, although the precise extent of
                    circulation in Singapore was not established, counsel for the Appellant,
                    Mr Ravi, had candidly stated during the hearing on liability that
                    “many lawyers are turning up in droves to buy – to have a copy of
                    the book” (see Shadrake 2 at [27]), and that almost 6,000 copies had been
                    sold in Singapore as well as overseas. The Judge also observed that the impugned
                    statements were also made in a “more enduring medium than journals or
                    magazines” (ibid).
151    There are also no mitigating factors
                    whatsoever in this case that could possibly be considered in the
                    Appellant’s favour. The Judge has dealt with this issue comprehensively in
                    the court below. We would only emphasise the fact that there has not been an
                    iota of remorse demonstrated by the Appellant who continues to stand by the
                    statements made. The Appellant’s utter lack of remorse is exemplified by
                    his interview with the Guardian as well as his
                    expressed intention to produce a second edition of the book. The Guardian article was based on an interview with the
                    Appellant, made after the Judge delivered the written judgment with regard to
                    liability for contempt (in Shadrake 1) and
                    after the Appellant had had a chance to review the Judge’s reasons for
                    finding him in contempt for eleven out of the fourteen statements impugned by
                    the Respondent. Amongst other things, the Appellant insisted in the interview
                    that the book was “devastatingly accurate” and declared that:
                    “[t]his story is never going away. I’ll keep it on the boil for as
                    long as I live. They’re going to regret they ever started this.”
                    (see Shadrake 2 at [3]). In so far as the Appellant’s
                    intention to produce a second edition of the book is concerned, the Judge found
                    this act of defiance to be “unprecedented in our case law” which
                    called for “a strong element of specific deterrence in determining the
                    sentence.” (Shadrake 2 at [35]). Notwithstanding this, the Appellant
                    instructed his counsel to inform the Judge during the hearing on sentence that
                    he did not mean to allege a cover-up by the “high echelons of the
                    judiciary” in Vignes Mourthi’s case, despite his express words to
                    the contrary in the book. However, the Judge found that the Appellant’s
                    proposal to apologise must be regarded as “nothing more than a tactical
                    ploy to obtain a reduced sentence” (see Shadrake 2 at [34]). We should, in fairness to the Appellant, note that the
                    publication of the second edition of the book might not be an aggravating factor
                    provided it does not contain the impugned statements. That having been said,
                    even assuming that this is the case, we fail to see how it could – from
                    the perspective of logic and commonsense – constitute a mitigating factor in the Appellant’s favour.
152    What the Appellant chooses to do (or, as the
                    case may be, not to do) is, of course, his prerogative but he cannot complain if
                    the court takes into account – as it must – such conduct as
                    mentioned above in arriving at the sentence to be meted out to him. He cannot
                    expect mitigating factors to be exercised in his favour when his conduct
                    steadfastly prevents such factors from coming into existence in the first place.
                    He cannot have it both ways.
153    Notwithstanding that we have found two of
                    the eleven statements (originally found to be contemptuous by the Judge) not to
                    be contemptuous, having regard to the other factors which we have dealt with
                    above, this is still the worst case of scandalising contempt that has hitherto
                    come before the Singapore courts. In our view, the Appellant’s conduct
                    merits a substantial custodial sentence.
154    We pause at this juncture to respectfully
                    disagree with the Judge in so far as he granted the Appellant an unquantified
                    discount (albeit “entirely undeserved” and “which will and
                    should not be taken as a precedent”) in the sentence meted out in order
                    “to signal that the courts have no interest in stifling legitimate debate
                    on the death penalty and other areas of law” (see Shadrake 2 at [42]). It is clear that debate on the death penalty as well as other
                    areas of law has been – and will always be
                        - open to all. However,
                    when conduct crosses the legal line and constitutes scandalising contempt, it is
                        no longer legitimate and, ex hypothesi, a discount cannot be accorded to the contemnor for
                    doing the very thing which is an abuse of the
                    right to free speech in general and the right to engage in legitimate debate with regard to the topic (or topics) concerned
                    in particular.
155    Nonetheless, while we disagree with the
                    Judge’s application of a discount, we affirm the Judge’s sentence
                    meted out in the court below. First, we would emphasise a point noted earlier
                    (at [87]), viz, that the Respondent did not file a cross-appeal against the
                    Judge’s decision on both liability as well as sentence, opining instead
                        that:[note: 1]
The sentence of 6 weeks’ imprisonment and fine of $20,000
                        imposed by the Judge is certainly not excessive and in fact, is on the low
                        end of the condign punishment that could have been meted out.
Second, as noted above, we have found that two of the statements
                    originally found to be contemptuous by the Judge were not in fact contemptuous,
                        ie, only nine (instead of eleven) of the
                    fourteen impugned statements were found by us to be contemptuous.
156    In the premises, we affirm the sentence
                    imposed by the Judge below with regard to both fine as well as imprisonment. The
                    Appellant is therefore to serve a sentence of six weeks’ imprisonment and
                    is to pay a fine of $20,000 (in default of which the Appellant is to serve a
                    further two weeks in prison, with such further term to run consecutively to the
                    first).
157    The Judge’s costs order in the court
                    below stands. The usual consequential orders will apply. The costs of the
                    present appeal are to be taxed if not agreed.
[note: 1]See the Respondent’s Case (filed 1 April
                                2011), para 223Copyright © Government of Singapore.
