


      Yong Vui Kong
      v
      Attorney-General
    [2010] SGHC 235Case Number:Originating Summons No 740 of 2010Decision Date:13 August 2010Tribunal/Court:High CourtCoram:
      Steven Chong J
    Counsel Name(s):
      M Ravi (L F Violet Netto) for the plaintiff; 
      David Chong SC, Shawn Ho Hsi Ming and Tan Shin Yi (Attorney-General's Chambers) for the defendant.
    Parties:
      Yong Vui Kong — 
      Attorney-General
    
[LawNet Editorial Note: The appeal to this decision in Civil Appeal No 144 of 2010 was dismissed by the Court of Appeal on 4 April 2011. See [2011] SGCA 9.]
13 August 2010Judgment reserved.

        Steven Chong J:
Introduction
1       This is an application by way of an ex parte originating summons pursuant to O 53 of the
                    Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2006 Rev Ed) (“ROC”) for
                    leave to seek, in essence, a permanent stay of execution on the death sentence
                    passed on the applicant, Mr Yong Vui Kong (“Yong”), because
                    of alleged flaws in the clemency process provided for by Article 22P of the
                    Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (the
                    “Constitution”). This application raises issues of public
                    importance that hitherto have not been the subject of any earlier judicial
                    pronouncement in Singapore. Specifically, it raises the issue of whether the
                    clemency process is subject to judicial review. The examination of this issue
                    would entail a comparative review of the jurisprudence on this subject in
                    several Commonwealth jurisdictions including England, the birthplace of the
                        “high prerogative of
                    mercy”.
Background
The procedural history
2       This application is the latest legal challenge
                    mounted by Mr M Ravi, Yong’s present counsel,
                    (“Mr Ravi”), on behalf of Yong. It is therefore useful to set
                    out the procedural history for context before going into the
                merits.
3       Yong was convicted of trafficking in 47.27g of
                    diamorphine under s 5(1)(a) of the Misuse of
                    Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2001 Rev Ed) and sentenced to death by the High
                    Court on 14 November 2008 (see PP v Yong Vui
                        Kong [2009] SGHC 4). Yong filed a notice of appeal
                    against both conviction and sentence on 27 November 2008 but
                    subsequently had a change of heart, and after notifying the Court of Appeal
                    through his assigned counsel, Mr Kelvin Lim, of his intention to withdraw
                    his appeal on 23 April 2009, he proceeded to do so at the hearing
                    itself on 29 April 2009.
4       After he withdrew his appeal, Yong petitioned
                    the President for clemency on 11 August 2009 (“the First
                    Petition”). It was around that time that Yong, through his brother,
                    instructed Mr Ravi to take over conduct of his case. Yong’s petition
                    for clemency was rejected by the President on 20 November 2009, and
                    with apparently only four days remaining before the sentence of death was to be
                    carried out, Mr Ravi filed a criminal motion
                    on 30 November 2009 to seek leave to appeal to the Court of
                    Appeal, notwithstanding Yong’s earlier withdrawal. The criminal motion was
                    fixed before a High Court judge, who granted an interim stay of execution and
                    adjourned the matter to be heard by the Court of Appeal. In the meantime, the
                    Attorney-General advised the President to grant a temporary respite against the
                    carrying out of the death sentence on Yong pursuant to s 220(f)(ii) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68,
                    1985 Rev Ed), and such order was issued on 3 December 2009. After
                    hearing submissions on 8 December 2009, the Court of Appeal granted
                    Yong leave to appeal against his sentence and a stay of execution.
5       The appeal was then heard by the Court of Appeal
                    on 15 March 2010. The crucial issue that was argued was whether the
                    mandatory death penalty imposed by the Misuse of Drugs Act was ultra vires the Constitution. In the course of his
                    submissions, Mr Ravi referred, peripherally, to the President’s power
                    to grant clemency under Article 22P of the Constitution
                    (“Article 22P”), and in response, the then Attorney-General,
                    Mr Walter Woon SC, submitted that the President’s power to grant
                    clemency has to be exercised in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet, and
                    the President has no discretion in the matter.
6       The Court of Appeal delivered its judgment on
                    14 May 2010 and, in dismissing Yong’s appeal, held that the
                    mandatory death penalty was not unconstitutional. The Court of Appeal also noted
                    that it was unnecessary “to consider Mr Ravi’s submission as
                    to the effect which the President’s power to grant clemency under [Article
                    22P] has on the constitutionality of the [mandatory death penalty]” (see
                        Yong Vui Kong v PP [2010] SGCA 20
                    at [121]).
The statements made by the Minister 
7       On 9 May 2010, some days before the
                    Court of Appeal delivered its judgment, local newspapers carried reports quoting
                    Mr K Shanmugam, the Minister of Law and the Second Minister for Home
                    Affairs (“the Minister”) as making the following two statements
                    (collectively “the Minister’s Statement”) in response to a
                    question at a community dialogue session as to whether the Government’s
                    policy on the death penalty for drug offences would change in the future as a
                    result of Yong’s case. The first statement is:
Yong Vui Kong is young. But if we say ‘We let you go’, what is
                        the signal we are sending?
The second statement is:
We are sending a signal to all the drug barons out there: Just make sure
                        you choose a victim who is young, or a mother of a young child, and use them
                        as the people to carry the drugs into Singapore.
Mr Ravi was later quoted in the media as saying his
                    client’s fate had been “poisoned by biasedness (sic)” as a result of the Minister’s Statement.
                    Before me it was accepted that, for present purposes, the Minister’s words
                    were accurately reported.
8       In response, the Ministry of Law issued a press
                    release on 9 July 2010 to explain that the Minister was not commenting
                    on any issue that was being considered by the Court of Appeal and that he was
                    merely commenting on the Government’s legislative policy and whether that
                    policy will change, and the extent to which youthfulness or other personal
                    factors are relevant in the formulation of Government policy to tackle the drug
                    menace.
The issues arising out of the present application
9       Against this background, this application was
                    brought on 21 July 2010. As required by O 53 r 1(3),
                    the application for leave was served on the Attorney-General, who was
                    represented at the hearing by Mr David Chong SC. Yong is seeking leave
                    to claim the following reliefs:
(a)     A declaration that under Art 22P of
                        the Constitution, it is the elected President and not his advisors who has
                        the discretion to decide whether to grant Yong’s petition for
                        clemency.
(b)     A
                        prohibitive order enjoining the elected President from abdicating his
                        authority under Art 22P of the Constitution to the
                    Cabinet.
(c)     An order
                        enjoining the elected President from fettering his discretion to grant or
                        refuse Yong’s petition for clemency.
(d)     A prohibitive order enjoining the Director of
                        Prisons from executing Yong and granting Yong an indefinite stay of
                        execution.
(e)     An
                        order that Yong be entitled to be pardoned or is alternatively entitled not
                        to be deprived of his life because the conduct of the Minister has
                        irreversibly tainted the clemency process with apparent
                    bias.
(f)     An order that
                        the Cabinet is disqualified from taking further part in the clemency
                        process.
(g)     An
                        order that Yong is entitled not to be deprived of his life on account of
                        being deprived of the possibility of a fair determination of the clemency
                        process;
(h)     An
                        order that Yong is entitled to see all the materials that will be before the
                        Cabinet on his clemency petition including, and in particular, the trial
                        Judge’s report, the Chief Justice’s report or other reports of
                        the Appellate Court and the Attorney-General’s opinion, so as to
                        afford him an opportunity to make written representations before any
                        decision is reached.
(i)     An order that Yong is entitled not to be deprived of his life on
                        account of having suffered grave injustice as a result of the actions of the
                        President and the Cabinet.
10     The above reliefs can be classified into three
                    categories, with the reliefs under each category sharing a common legal
                    premise:
(a)     Reliefs (a) to (d) premise that the
                        power to grant pardons under Article 22P is justiciable, and that the
                        discretion to grant pardons resides with the President and not the
                        Cabinet.
(b)     Reliefs (e) to (i), save for relief (h), premise that the power to grant
                        pardons under Article 22P is justiciable, and specifically is subject to
                        judicial review on the ground of apparent bias, which, I should stress, is
                        the only substantive ground of review put forth by
                    Mr Ravi.
(c)     Relief (h) stands alone, and premises that Yong has a right to see the
                        materials before the Cabinet or the President, either as an independent
                        right, or as a corollary of a wider right to make representations to the
                        Cabinet or the President in considering whether or not to exercise the power
                        in Article 22P. I should stress that Yong is applying to see the materials
                        on the basis that this is a substantive right by
                            itself. He is not asking for discovery of
                            evidence in pursuit of some other substantive
                    right.
In addition to the substantive questions raised by
                    these premises, there are also two preliminary issues, viz:
(i)the standard applicable to deciding whether or
                            not leave should be granted; and
(ii)whether declaratory relief is available under
                            O 53.
11     In resisting the application for leave, the
                    overarching argument raised by Mr Chong was that the entire clemency
                    process was not subject to judicial review and therefore the application must
                    fail in limine.
12     I will address each preliminary and
                    substantive point in turn. I should say that there was absolutely no doubt that
                    Yong, on whom the sentence of death has been imposed, had the requisite standing
                    and interest to bring this application. This was, quite rightly, not disputed by
                    Mr Chong at the hearing.
13     Before me, it was common ground that the
                    Prison authorities had given Yong until 26 August 2010 to file his fresh
                    petition for clemency. At the end of the hearing, I asked Mr Ravi if there
                    were any considerations of time I should take into account. Mr Ravi quite
                    sensibly took the position that even if I were unable to come to a decision by
                    26 August 2010, he is likely to advise Yong to file the petition by
                    26 August 2010 so as to preserve his position. I have therefore
                    prepared this judgment rather urgently, in order that the parties could decide
                    on the next step with all options remaining open.
Threshold test for leave
14     I first consider the appropriate standard by
                    which I should scrutinise the merits of this application. Mr Ravi argued
                    that for leave to be granted under O 53, it was sufficient for him to show that
                    he has an arguable case for the various reliefs sought in the present
                    application. Relying on Chan Hiang Leng Colin v Minister for
                        Information and the Arts [1996] 1 SLR(R) 294 (“Colin Chan”), Mr Ravi submitted that
                    the court, at the leave stage, should only conduct a quick perusal of the
                    materials to determine whether it discloses an arguable case for granting the
                    reliefs claimed. Mr Ravi’s submission was based on his understanding
                    of the decision in Colin Chan which affirmed the
                    test adopted in IRC v National Federation of Self-Employed
                        and Small Businesses Ltd [1982] AC 617 at 643–644
                        (“IRC”):
The whole purpose of requiring that leave should first be obtained to make
                        the application for judicial review would be defeated if
                            the court were to go into the matter in any depth at that
                        stage. If, on a quick perusal of the material then
                            available, the court thinks that it discloses what might on further
                            consideration turn out to be an arguable case in favour of granting to
                            the applicant the relief claimed, it ought, in the exercise of a
                            judicial discretion, to give him leave to apply for that
                            relief.
[emphasis added]
15     On the strength of this passage, Mr Ravi
                    submitted that it would not be appropriate at the leave stage to conduct a
                    detailed examination of the merits of the legal points raised. I disagree. It is
                    clear from the very passage in IRC relied on by
                    Mr Ravi that “the quick perusal” qualifies the materials,
                        ie the evidence before the court. I would
                    agree with Mr Ravi that at the leave stage, it would be inappropriate for
                    the court to assess the weight or admissibility of the evidence in order to
                    determine whether leave should or should not be granted. Assessing the weight of
                    the evidence would require more than just a “quick perusal”. In
                        IRC, the House of Lords observed that the
                    discretion to be exercised at the leave stage is different from that to be
                    exercised at the substantive hearing “when all the
                        evidence is in”.
16     However, in the present application,
                    Mr Chong has confirmed that the Attorney-General would not be filing any
                    affidavits in response and is content to resist the application solely on the
                    basis of the affidavit filed by Mr Ravi on behalf of Yong. As such, all the
                    evidence is already in and there is no dispute of fact. Before me are pure
                    questions of law which have been fully and indeed ably argued, and in the
                    circumstances it makes no sense whatsoever for a bifurcated process where I
                    “quickly peruse” the merits in order to decide whether to grant
                    leave, while leaving a more detailed consideration to be made by another judge
                    if I do decide to grant leave. Everything can and should be decided at one
                    hearing.
17     I find support for such an approach in the
                    judgment of the Court of Appeal in Pang Chen Suan v
                        Commissioner for Labour [2008] 3 SLR(R) 648. The Court
                    of Appeal’s decision is instructive as to the proper approach to be
                    adopted for such ex parte applications. It
                    observed (at [56]) that in suitable cases, ex parte applications for leave should be heard inter partes and disposed of on the merits as a
                    substantive application.
We should like to add by way of guidance to judges who hear ex parte applications for leave for judicial
                        review that the purpose of requiring leave is to enable the court to sieve
                        out frivolous applications. A case such as the present
                            which clearly raises issues which require more than a cursory
                            examination of the merits should have been heard as a substantive
                            application. There is no reason why an ex parte application such as
                            Pang's could not have been heard inter partes and disposed of on the
                            merits as a substantive application.
[emphasis added]
In that case, the Court of Appeal was concerned with legal issues
                    which required more than a cursory examination of the merits. It considered the
                    issues on the substantive merits and granted leave. In fact, it went on to
                    observe (at [56]) that the Commissioner should not resist the application since
                    on the merits it was bound to fail:
[G]iven our conclusions on the substantive issues in this case, we
                        indicated to State Counsel that he should advise the Commissioner that
                        Pang's claim for workmen's compensation should be processed immediately
                        without the necessity of another court hearing, at which the Commissioner
                        was bound to fail.
18     Similarly, in the High Court decision of
                        Chai Chwan v Singapore Medical Council
                    [2009] SGHC 115, Belinda Ang J examined the substantive arguments at
                    the leave stage and concluded that as the applicant had no arguable case, leave
                    was refused since, even on judicial review, he would ultimately fail on the
                    merits. She observed (at [31]):
I have to say that after the court has heard full arguments and seen
                        information from both sides it is hard to see what else “might on
                        further consideration turn out to be an arguable case.”
19     For the reasons which I have just mentioned, I
                    am of the view that this is a case where I should fully consider the points of
                    law raised and dispose of them on the merits.
Whether declaratory relief is available under O 53
20     As another preliminary point, I agree with
                    Mr Chong’s submission that the court has no jurisdiction to grant
                    declaratory relief in an application, such as the present one, made under
                    O 53. Declaratory relief can only be obtained by way of ordinary action,
                        ie writ or originating summons. See Re Application by Dow Jones (Asia) Inc
                    [1987] SLR(R) 627 at [14]; Colin Chan at
                    [5]–[6]; Yip Kok Seng v Traditional Chinese Medicine
                        Practitioners Board [2010] SGHC 226 at [16].
                    Yong’s prayers for declaratory relief can therefore be dismissed on this
                    ground alone. However, given the gravity of the issues raised, I hesitate to
                    rest my decision purely on procedural considerations, and would go on to
                    consider the merits.
Whether the clemency process is justiciable
21     This, to my mind, is the pivotal issue. If
                    this issue is decided against Yong, his application cannot succeed. The clemency
                    process in Singapore is set out in Article 22P:

Grant of pardon, etc.
22P. —(1) The President, as occasion shall arise, may,
                        on the advice of the Cabinet —
(a)    grant a pardon to any accomplice in any
                            offence who gives information which leads to the conviction of the
                            principal offender or any one of the principal offenders, if more than
                            one;
(b)    grant to any offender convicted of any
                            offence in any court in Singapore, a pardon, free or subject to lawful
                            conditions, or any reprieve or respite, either indefinite or for such
                            period as the President may think fit, of the execution of any sentence
                            pronounced on such offender; or
(c)    remit the whole or any part of such
                            sentence or of any penalty or forfeiture imposed by law.
(2)    Where any offender has been condemned to death
                        by the sentence of any court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has
                        been confirmed by the appellate court, the President shall cause the reports
                        which are made to him by the Judge who tried the case and the Chief Justice
                        or other presiding Judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the
                        Attorney-General with instructions that, after the Attorney-General has
                        given his opinion thereon, the reports shall be sent, together with the
                        Attorney-General’s opinion, to the Cabinet so that the Cabinet may
                        advise the President on the exercise of the power conferred on him by clause
                        (1).
22     However, Article 22P itself does not provide
                    whether the clemency process is subject to judicial review. Therefore, in
                    deciding this issue, it would be helpful to examine the legal position adopted
                    by other Commonwealth jurisdictions which have some form of what originated in
                    England as the prerogative of mercy. This I now do, beginning with England, the
                    birthplace of the prerogative. As a stylistic point, I should note that the
                    cases refer to the prerogative of mercy, the clemency process, and the power to
                    grant pardons interchangeably, and in referring to them I will follow the
                    particular terminology adopted. However, this makes no difference to my
                    substantive analysis and I will treat them to mean the same thing.
England
23     Historically, the prerogative of mercy was one
                    of the prerogative powers of the Crown. Nearly 200 years ago, the prerogative of
                    mercy was described by Joseph Chitty as a power that was exercised personally by the Crown because criminal liability was,
                    at that time, grounded upon the idea that the commission of an offence was a
                    violation of the Crown’s peace (A Treatise on the Law
                        of the Prerogatives of the Crown: and the Relative Duties and Rights of the
                        Subject (Joseph Butterworth and Son, 1820) at 89):
The King is, in legal contemplation, injured by the commission of public
                        offences; his peace is said to be violated thereby, and the right to pardon
                        cannot be vested more properly than in the Sovereign, who is, from his
                        situation, more likely than any other person to exercise it with
                        impartiality, and to whom good policy requires that the people should look,
                        with submissive respect, as the head of the nation, and supreme guardian of
                        the laws...
24     This was noted in R v Home
                        Secretary, ex p Bentley [1994] QB 349
                        (“Bentley”) by Watkins LJ,
                    who added (at 357) that the prerogative of mercy functioned to ameliorate the
                    harshness of the law during the Middle Ages:
The exercise of mercy by the Crown appears to have become firmly
                        established in the middle ages, with the infringement of the King's peace
                        emerging as the basis for criminal liability. Since major felonies were
                        invariably capital, and pleas to self-defence had not developed, judicial
                        procedure produced inflexible and unsatisfactory results. Use of the
                        prerogative relieved those results.
25     It is therefore necessary to note two
                    points:
(a)because the prerogative of mercy was originally
                            exercised by the Crown in a personal capacity, it fell outside the
                            courts’ supervisory jurisdiction; and
(b)the prerogative of mercy was, for a period of
                            time, as much a part of the criminal justice system as was the (then
                            relatively undeveloped) legal system which produced the convictions,
                            many of which resulted in capital punishment.
However, as Watkins LJ also notes (at 358), the English legal
                    system has since matured, with more recourses to appellate courts in criminal
                    cases, and accordingly, the significance of the prerogative has been greatly
                    reduced.
26     Another important development was
                    England’s constitutional evolution from an absolute monarchy to a
                    parliamentary democracy, which gave rise to the constitutional convention that
                    the prerogative powers would be exercised by the Crown in accordance with the
                    advice of its ministers, rather than as a matter of personal
                discretion.
27     Despite the fact that the prerogative powers
                    were no longer personal to the Crown, the English courts remained reluctant to
                    interfere with the prerogative of mercy due to the nature of
                        its subject matter. In Hanratty v Lord
                        Butler (unreported), 12 May 1971; Court of Appeal (Civil
                    Division) Transcript No 171 of 1971 (cited in Bentley at 360) (“Hanratty”), the Court of Appeal upheld the order below to
                    strike out an action in negligence that was brought against the Home Secretary
                    in which it was alleged that he had failed to consider new evidence in the form
                    of witness statements. It is apparent from the nature of the claim that the
                    challenge was made in relation to the decision making process, and not the
                    merits of the decision itself. However, Lord Denning MR explained (as quoted in
                        Bentley at 360) that:
[t]hese courts have had occasion in the past to cut down some of the
                        prerogatives of the Crown: but they have never sought to encroach on the
                        prerogative of mercy. It is not exercised by the Queen herself personally.
                        It is exercised by her on the advice of one of the principal Secretaries of
                        State. He advises her with the greatest conscience and good care. He takes
                        full responsibility for the manner of its exercise. That being so, the law
                        will not inquire into the manner in which the prerogative is exercised.
                            It is outside the competence of the courts to call it
                            into question: nor would they wish to do so.
[emphasis added]
28     This was reiterated by Lord Diplock in the
                    landmark decision of the House of Lords in Council of Civil
                        Service Unions v Minister for Civil Service [1985]
                    1 AC 374 (“the GCHQ case”)
                    at 411:
While I see no a priori reason to rule out "irrationality" as a ground for
                        judicial review of a ministerial decision taken in the exercise of
                        "prerogative" powers, I find it difficult to envisage in any of the various
                        fields in which the prerogative remains the only source of the relevant
                        decision-making power a decision of a kind that would be open to attack
                        through the judicial process upon this ground. Such decisions will generally
                        involve the application of government policy. The reasons
                            for the decision-maker taking one course rather than another do not
                            normally involve questions to which, if disputed, the judicial process
                            is adapted to provide the right answer, by which I mean that the kind of
                            evidence that is admissible under judicial procedures and the way in
                            which it has to be adduced tend to exclude from the attention of the
                            court competing policy considerations which, if the executive discretion
                            is to be wisely exercised, need to be weighed against one another
                            — a balancing exercise which judges by their upbringing and
                            experience are ill-qualified to perform. I leave this as an
                        open question to be dealt with on a case to case basis if, indeed, the case
                        should ever arise.
[emphasis added]
Lord Roskill added at 418:
Prerogative powers such as those relating to the making of treaties, the
                        defence of the realm, the prerogative of
                        mercy, the grant of honours, the dissolution of Parliament and
                        the appointment of ministers as well as others are not, I
                            think susceptible to judicial review because their nature and subject
                            matter are such as not to be amenable to the judicial
                        process.
[emphasis added]
Although the GCHQ case was not directly
                    concerned with the prerogative of mercy, their Lordships’
                    dicta lend support to the prevailing view that the
                    question of whether a pardon should be granted is one that is “not
                    amenable to the judicial process” due to its nature and subject
                    matter.
29     In unpacking the meaning behind the phrase
                    “not amenable to judicial review”, the learned editors of
                        De Smith’s Judicial Review (Sweet &
                    Maxwell, 6th Edition, 2007) have explained that there are some decisions which
                    the courts have traditionally taken the view that they, as an institution, are
                    ill-equipped to review (paras 1-030–1-033):
Matters which are in essence matters of preference
These include decisions which cannot be impugned on the basis of any
                        objective standard because their resolution is essentially a matter of
                        individual (including political) preference...
...
Matters in relation to which the court lacks expertise
A second institutional limitation of the courts is lack of relative
                        expertise. Particularly as the review of fact, or the merits of a decision,
                        is not routinely permitted in judicial review, there are some matters which
                        are best resolved by those with specialist knowledge...
Matters which are polycentric
A third limitation on the court’s institutional capacity occurs when
                        the matter to be determined is “polycentric”. Most
                        “allocative decisions” – decisions involving the
                        distribution of limited resources – fall within this
                        category...
30     Regardless of whether the prerogative of mercy
                    falls neatly within one or more of these categories, the position in England is
                    clear that the pardon or clemency process is not justiciable. This established
                    principle of English constitutional law was revisited in Bentley. The decision in Bentley
                    arose out of extraordinary circumstances. The applicant had sought judicial
                    review from the Divisional Court against the Home Secretary for upholding a
                    previous Home Secretary’s decision not to grant a posthumous free pardon to her brother, Derek Bentley, who was
                    executed in 1953. This was based on the argument that the long-standing Home
                    Office policy, ie that a free pardon would not be
                    granted unless he was satisfied that the person concerned was both morally and
                    technically innocent of the crime, was an error of law as it misunderstood the
                    nature and effect of a free pardon.
31     The Divisional Court acknowledged that
                    questions of policy were not reviewable and held that the Home Secretary was
                    entitled to rely on the long-standing policy of previous Home Secretaries. The
                    court was of the opinion, however, that the Home Secretary had failed to
                    consider the option of granting a conditional pardon; but it stopped short of
                    saying that the pardon process was subject to judicial review. Instead, owing to
                    the exceptional circumstances of the case, it merely invited the Home Secretary
                    to reconsider the exercise of the prerogative of mercy – an extralegal
                    move. Indeed, subsequently conditional pardon was granted in July 1993 and his
                    conviction was quashed by the Court of Appeal in 1998 (see R
                        v Bentley (deceased) [2001] 1 Cr App R 307).
32     It can therefore be summarised, that the
                    English courts have been reluctant to interfere with the Home Secretary’s
                    exercise of the prerogative of mercy, even in the most exceptional cases, and
                    therefore the Home Secretary’s discretion remains absolute and immune from
                    any challenge. The main justification for this position is that neither the
                    nature nor the subject matter of the pardon process is amenable to judicial
                    review. This approach appears also to be consistent with the English
                    courts’ view of the separation of powers under the Westminster model of
                    government.
New Zealand
33     The position in New Zealand is found in the
                    Court of Appeal decision of Burt v
                        Governor-General [1992] 3 NZLR 672. The appellant
                    challenged the Governor-General’s decision not to grant a pardon on the
                    grounds that the Governor-General and the Department of Justice had failed to
                    act fairly and reasonably in dealing with the petition. He raised the general
                    arguments that “petitioners have legitimate expectations of fair
                    treatment” and that “the public too would expect a fair procedure
                    to be followed”. In considering the issue of whether the prerogative of
                    mercy was justiciable, the court took the view that the prerogative has
                    developed to become “an integral element in the criminal justice system,
                    a constitutional safeguard against mistakes”. However, the court was also
                    of the opinion that the existence of various safeguards against miscarriages of
                    justice meant that (at 683):
... no pressing reason has been made out for altering
                            the practice regarding the Royal prerogative of mercy. While
                        accepting that it is inevitably the duty of the Court to extend the scope of
                        common law review if justice so requires, we are not satisfied that in this
                        field justice does so require, at any rate at present.
[emphasis added]
34     In doing so, the Court of Appeal affirmed the
                    position in the Privy Council decision of de Freitas v
                        Benny [1976] AC 239 (discussed at [46] below) that the decision making process of
                    the prerogative of mercy is not reviewable in a court of law.
Australia
35     The position in Australia is no different.
                    This was clearly established in the decision of Horwitz v
                        Connor (1908) 6 CLR 38 (“Horwitz”), in which the High Court of Australia affirmed
                    the common law position that no court had jurisdiction to review the discretion
                    of the Governor in Council in his exercise of the prerogative of mercy under s
                    540 of the Crimes Act 1890 (Victoria).
36     Although strictly not in issue, the Supreme
                    Court of South Australia in the decision of Von Einem v
                        Griffin (1998) 72 SASR 110 took the opportunity to
                    revisit the issue of justiciability of the prerogative of mercy. It cited the
                        GCHQ case with approval and accepted at 126
                    that the modern approach of justiciability considers the nature of the subject
                    matter of the power which is sought to be reviewed. After reviewing the Privy
                    Council decision of de Freitas v Benny, the court
                    went on to observe that the prerogative of mercy was not subject to judicial
                    review (at 129):
It is probable, therefore, that, as presently advised, the prerogative of
                        mercy is not subject to review, not because its source is the prerogative
                        but because of the subject matter of the power itself. The weight of
                        authority seems to suggest so: see Burt v
                            Governor-General [1992] 3 NZLR 672; cf R v Secretary of State for the Home Department; Ex parte
                            Bentley [1994] QB 349. However, as I say, there
                        being no complaint about his Excellency's refusal to exercise the
                        prerogative of mercy, this court does not need to finally decide that
                        matter.
37     Recently in Eastman v
                        Australian Capital Territory [2008] ACTCA 7, the
                    Australian Capital Territory Court of Appeal observed that recent Privy Council
                    decisions that have departed from the English position ought not to be followed
                    and, instead, held that Horwitz, which excluded
                    any review of procedural fairness, remained good law (at [38] and
                    [41]):
The cases cited by Lander J suggest that courts in New Zealand, South
                        Australia and England have departed, or have considered departing, from the
                        traditional view identified above. That trend appears to have been driven by
                        two factors. The first is the availability of appeals to the Privy Council
                        from former colonies where the death penalty continues to be imposed. The
                        second is a perception that the application of general principles of
                        procedural fairness should not be limited by archaic notions concerning the
                        source of executive power. Whilst we understand the
                            difficulties faced by members of the Judicial Committee in capital
                            cases, we are reluctant to treat those decisions as necessarily offering
                            a principled basis for departing from well-established legal
                            propositions. Similarly, we are not persuaded that we may
                        depart from the decision in Horwitz v Connor
                        in the interests of promoting a consistent body of administrative law. Until
                        the High Court holds to the contrary, the decision in Horwitz v Connor is binding upon us.
...
The observations made by Lord Diplock in de
                            Freitas suggest that the traditional view is that there is no
                        obligation to extend procedural fairness to an applicant for exercise of the
                        prerogative of mercy. Review of the kind contemplated in s 34B of the
                        Supreme Court Act is not generally “on the merits”. Any
                        relevant error will usually be as to jurisdiction or in the process leading
                        to the decision. Given the restrictive view of judicial review which
                        prevailed at the time, it is unlikely that in Horwitz v
                            Connor, Griffith CJ meant simply to exclude merits
                        review.
[emphasis added]
38     The court also cautioned against the view
                    taken in Burt v Governor-General that the
                    prerogative of mercy “has become an integral element in the criminal
                    justice system, a constitutional safeguard against mistakes” because
                    adopting such an interventionist view would be “to depart from received
                    views as to the separation of powers which have emerged over the last three
                    hundred years” (at [39]). Ultimately, the court did not find it necessary
                    to definitively re-examine the question of justifiability in light of the clear
                    decision in Horwitz and the applicant’s
                    failure on the merits (at [43]).
Malaysia
39     The position in Malaysia on the question
                    whether the clemency process is subject to judicial review is particularly
                    relevant because Article 22P was adopted from Article 42 of the Malaysian
                    Federal Constitution (“Article 42”). When Singapore became an
                    independent Republic in 1965, Article 42 ceased to apply to Singapore and the
                    power to grant pardon by the President of Singapore was preserved under s 8 of
                    the Republic of Singapore Independence Act (1985 Rev Ed) which was
                    subsequently enshrined in the Constitution as Article 22P. Given that Article
                    22P owes its origin to Article 42, reference to the Malaysian experience on this
                    issue would therefore be both essential and helpful.
40     The Malaysian courts have consistently adopted
                    the position in a series of decisions that both the decision for pardon and its
                    decision making process are not justiciable. Beginning with the decision in
                        Sim Kie Chon v Superintendent of Pudu Prison
                    [1985] 2 MLJ 385, (“Sim Kie Chon
                        (No 1)”) the Malaysian Supreme Court affirmed the
                    decision of the High Court in striking out the plaintiff’s claim that the
                    Pardon Board had failed to properly consider his petition for mercy and had
                    therefore acted unconstitutionally. Specifically, the Supreme Court cited the
                        GCHQ case and concluded (at 386) that the
                    power of pardon is:

... a power of high prerogative of mercy which is an
                            executive act but by its very nature is not an act susceptible or
                            amenable to judicial review.
41     It then went on to cite with approval an
                    earlier Malaysian Federal Court decision in Public Prosecutor
                        v Lim Hiang Seoh [1979] 2 MLJ 170 where Suffian LP
                    observed:
When considering whether to confirm, commute, remit or pardon, His Majesty does not sit as a court, is entitled to take into
                            consideration matters which courts bound by the law of evidence cannot
                            take into account, and decides each case on grounds of public policy;
                            such decisions are a matter solely for the executive. We cannot confirm
                            or vary them; we have no jurisdiction to do so. The royal
                        prerogative of mercy, as is recognised by its inclusion in Chapter 3 of Part
                        IV of the Constitution, is an executive power as in Jamaica, Hinds v The Queen.
[emphasis added]
42     Undaunted by the decision, the prisoner, Sim
                    Kie Chon commenced another suit seeking a declaration that Pardon Board was not
                    lawfully constituted and therefore its decision was legally ineffective. It
                    further claimed that the Pardon Board had acted unfairly and in breach of the
                    rules of natural justice. The Malaysian Supreme Court in Superintendent of Pudu Prison v Sim Kie Chon [1986]
                    1 MLJ 494 (“Sim Kie Chon
                        (No 2)”), after having reviewed the legal position in
                    England (Hanratty), in Australia (Horwitz) and the Privy Council decision in de Freitas v Benny, reiterated its earlier decision that
                    “when the Constitution has empowered the nation’s highest executive
                    as the repository of the clemency power, the court cannot intervene and judicial
                    review is excluded by implication”. I pause to observe that the Malaysian
                    Supreme Court in both Sim Kie Chon (No 1) and Sim Kie
                        Chon (No 2) were concerned with the decision making process
                    given the nature of the challenge. Consistent with its decision that the
                    clemency process was not justiciable, the Malaysian Supreme Court in Sim Kie Chon (No 2) went on to hold (at 498) that
                    the rules of natural justice were not applicable to the clemency process because
                    to hold otherwise, would:
in effect be countenancing the respondent`s participation in the exercise
                        of an executive and prerogative power and virtually reactivating a concluded
                        trial. It follows sequentially that if it is, open to a court to examine the
                        advice of the Pardons Board there would then in effect be an extra-curial
                        retrial and endless reventilation of every convict’s case.
43     The non-reviewability of the clemency process
                    was reaffirmed in Karpal Singh v Sultan of
                        Selangor [1988] 1 MLJ 64 (“Karpal Singh”). In that case, the Sultan of Selangor made
                    a public statement that he would not pardon anyone who has been sentenced to the
                    mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking. The applicant applied for a
                    declaration that the public statement was in violation of Article 42 since the
                    Sultan had effectively pre-determined that all
                    drug traffickers facing the death sentence were not suitable for clemency.
                    Yong’s challenge in the present application that the Minister’s
                    Statement had prejudged his clemency petition bears some resemblance to the
                    challenge in Karpal Singh. However, the
                    application was struck off since clemency process not being reviewable, the
                    action was held to be frivolous, vexatious and an abuse of the process of the
                    court.
44     Finally, the Malaysian Federal Court recently
                    applied the same principle in Juraimi bin Husin v Pardons
                        board, State of Pahang [2002] 4 MLJ 529 to strike out
                    an application to review the decision making process of the Sultan of Pahang in
                    rejecting the prisoner’s clemency petition after a lapse of almost two
                    years.
45     The consistent thread which runs through all
                    the Malaysian decisions is the concurrence that “mercy is not the subject
                    of legal rights. It begins where legal rights end” and that the power of
                    high prerogative of mercy is an executive act which by its nature and content is
                    not amenable to judicial review.
The Caribbean
46     The position in the Caribbean was, until
                    recently, consistent with that in England. I shall first review some of the
                    earlier Privy Council decisions from the Caribbean and then examine the
                    circumstances that led to the recent change. The first noteworthy decision is
                    the Privy Council decision of de Freitas v Benny
                    which pre-dated the GCHQ case and Bentley. Lord Diplock delivered the judgment and held
                    that under the Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago, the position in relation to
                    the clemency process was identical to the English position in its entirety, save
                    for the identity of the parties involved. Further, it was held that a convicted
                    person had no right to the materials furnished to the Minister and Advisory
                    Committee because, previously in England, the Home Secretary’s practice of
                    calling for a report from the trial judge was simply a practice that did not
                    give rise to a legal right (at 247–248):

Except in so far as it may have been altered by the
                            Constitution the legal nature of the exercise of the royal prerogative
                            of mercy in Trinidad and Tobago remains the same as it was in England at
                            common law. At common law this has always been a matter which
                        lies solely in the discretion of the sovereign, who by constitutional
                        convention exercises it in respect of England on the advice of the Home
                        Secretary to whom Her Majesty delegates her discretion. Mercy is not the
                        subject of legal rights. It begins where legal rights end. A convicted
                        person has no legal right even to have his case considered by the Home
                        Secretary in connection with the exercise of the prerogative of mercy. In
                        tendering his advice to the sovereign the Home Secretary is doing something
                        that is often cited as the exemplar of a purely discretionary act as
                        contrasted with the exercise of a quasi-judicial function. While capital punishment was still a lawful penalty for murder
                            in England it was the practice of the Home Secretary in every capital
                            case to call for a report of the case from the trial judge and for such
                            other information from such other sources as he thought might help him
                            to make up his mind as to the advice that he would tender to the
                            sovereign in the particular case. But it never was the
                        practice for the judge's report or any other information obtained by the
                        Home Secretary to be disclosed to the condemned person or his legal
                        representatives.
[emphasis added]
47     In Thomas Reckley v
                        Minister of Public Safety and Immigration (No 2)
                    [1996] 1 AC 527 (“Reckley
                        (No 2)”), the applicant sought to persuade the Privy
                    Council that the time was ripe for the clemency process to be subjected to
                    judicial review. However, the Privy Council, after referring to the GCHQ case, Bentley and
                        Burt v Governor-General (at 540–541),
                    held that the legal position as decided in de Freitas v
                        Benny remained good law (at 542). It accordingly held that the
                    Minister’s discretion in relation to his advice on the clemency process
                    remained personal and non-reviewable. Furthermore, it was held that a convicted
                    person had no legal right to make representations for the purpose of clemency.
                    Lord Goff of Chieveley emphasised that the Constitution of Bahamas had
                    sufficient safeguards in place, and that there was therefore no need for the
                    courts to play a supervisory role over the exercise of the Minister’s
                    personal discretion (at 542):
In this connection their Lordships wish to stress the nature of the
                        constitutional safeguard which the introduction of the advisory committee
                        has created. On the committee, the designated minister and the
                        Attorney-General will be joined by a group of people nominated by the
                        Governor-General. These will, their Lordships are confident, be men and
                        women of distinction, whose presence, and contribution, at the heart of the
                        process will ensure that the condemned man's case is given, and is seen by
                        citizens to be given, full and fair consideration. Such people as these will
                        expect to be provided with all relevant material, including any material
                        supplied by or on behalf of the condemned man; and in the most unlikely
                        event that the responsible civil servants do not place such material before
                        them, they are perfectly capable of making the necessary inquiries.
                            It is plain to their Lordships that those who drew
                            the Constitution of The Bahamas were well aware of the personal nature
                            of the discretion to be exercised by the minister and the consequent
                            absence of any supervisory role by the courts, but also considered that,
                            by introducing an advisory committee with the constitution and functions
                            specified in the Constitution, they were providing a safeguard both
                            appropriate and adequate for the situation.
[emphasis added]
48     However, barely four years later, the Privy
                    Council did an about turn in the decision of Neville Lewis v
                        Attorney-General of Jamaica [2001] 2 AC 50 (“Lewis”). Lord Slynn of Hadley, who
                    delivered the majority judgment, held (at 76) that the reasoning in
                        Reckley (No 2) no longer held
                    true:
On the face of it there are compelling reasons why a body which is
                        required to consider a petition for mercy should be required to receive the
                        representations of a man condemned to die and why he should have an
                        opportunity in doing so to see and comment on the other material which is
                        before that body. This is the last chance and in so far as it is possible to
                        ensure that proper procedural standards are maintained that should be done.
                        Material may be put before the body by persons palpably biased against the
                        convicted man or which is demonstrably false or which is genuinely mistaken
                        but capable of correction. Information may be available which by error of
                        counsel or honest forgetfulness by the condemned man has not been brought
                        out before. Similarly if it is said that the opinion of
                            the Jamaican Privy Council is taken in an arbitrary or perverse
                            way—on the throw of a dice or on the basis of a convicted man's
                            hairstyle—or is otherwise arrived at in an improper, unreasonable
                            way, the court should prima facie be able to
                        investigate.
Are there special reasons why this should not be so?

In the Reckley (No 2) case [1996] AC 527
                            much importance was attached to the composition of the Advisory
                            Committee on the Prerogative of Mercy. The experience, status,
                            independence of the members is no doubt an important feature of the
                            process. It provides a valuable protection and prevents the autocratic
                            rejection of a petition by one person. Their Lordships do not however
                            accept that this is a conclusive reason why judicial review should be
                            excluded. They may unconsciously be biased, there may still
                        be inadvertently a gross breach of fairness in the way the proceedings are
                        conducted.
49     Lord Slynn went on to declare that the common
                    law could be used to supplement the Constitution and, accordingly, held that the
                    Jamaican Privy Council were under a common law duty to consider representations
                    by a convicted person (at 78):
Sir Godfray Le Quesne on behalf of the interveners forcefully stressed
                        that the process of clemency is unique. It amounts to a power to dispense
                        with the normal application of the law—that is to carry out the
                        prescribed death penalty—and it involves an exceptional breadth of
                        discretion. These submissions are no doubt correct but in their
                        Lordships’ view they are not inconsistent with a court insuring that
                        proper procedures are followed nor are they inconsistent with the Privy
                        Council of Jamaica being required to look at what the condemned man has to
                        say any more than they are in principle inconsistent with a duty to consider
                        the judge's report. One is prescribed by statute the other is not. The question is whether the common law requires that other
                            material than the judge's report be looked at.
[emphasis added]
50     It appears that, in arriving at this decision,
                    the Privy Council was heavily influenced by the fact that Jamaica had, on
                    7 August 1978, ratified the American Convention on Human Rights 1969
                    which provides for the right to procedural fairness in the clemency process (at
                    78–79):

The importance of the consideration of a petition for
                            mercy being conducted in a fair and proper way is underlined by the fact
                            that the penalty is automatic in capital cases. The sentencing judge has
                            no discretion, whereas the circumstances in which murders are committed
                            vary greatly. Even without reference to international
                        conventions it is clear that the process of clemency allows the fixed
                        penalty to be dispensed with and the punishment modified in order to deal
                        with the facts of a particular case so as to provide an acceptable and just
                        result. But in addition Jamaica ratified the American
                            Convention on Human Rights 1969 on 7 August 1978 and it is now well
                            established that domestic legislation should as far as possible be
                            interpreted so as to conform to the state's obligation under such a
                            treaty: Matadeen v Pointu
                        [1999] 1 AC 98, 114 G–H.

Article 4 of the American Convention on
                            Human Rights 1969 provides for the right to life. By paragraph
                            6:

“Every person condemned to death shall have
                                the right to apply for amnesty, pardon or commutation of sentence,
                                which may be granted in all cases. Capital punishment shall not be
                                imposed while such a petition is pending decision by the competent
                                authority.”

As to article 4 of the American Convention the Inter-American
                        Court in paragraph 55 of its Advisory Opinion OC-3/83 (Restrictions to the
                        Death Penalty), 8 September 1983 has said:
“Thus, three types of limitations can be seen to be applicable
                            to states parties which have not abolished the death penalty. First, the
                            imposition or application of this sanction is subject to certain
                            procedural requirements whose compliance must be strictly observed and
                            reviewed. Second, the application of the death penalty must be limited
                            to the most serious common crimes not related to political offenses.
                            Finally, certain considerations involving the person of the defendant,
                            which may bar the imposition or application of the death penalty, must
                            be taken into account.”
Whether or not the provisions of the Convention are enforceable as such in
                        domestic courts, it seems to their Lordships that the
                            states' obligation internationally is a pointer to indicate that the
                            prerogative of mercy should be exercised by procedures which are fair
                            and proper and to that end are subject to judicial
                        review.
[emphasis added]
51     Lord Hoffmann, the only judge in Lewis who also sat on the Privy Council in the earlier
                    decision of Reckley (No 2), issued a
                    dissenting judgment and noted that nothing had changed since Reckley (No 2) to warrant the departure from settled law
                    (at 87-88):
These appeals concern the legality of the sentence of death which, in
                        accordance with the law of Jamaica, has been passed upon six prisoners
                        convicted of murder. The questions raised are of the utmost importance, not
                        only for the prisoners whose lives are at stake but also for the
                        administration of justice in Jamaica and the other Commonwealth countries of
                        the Caribbean. The Board sits as a supreme court of
                            appeal to enforce their laws and Constitutions. It is of course obvious
                            to the members of the Board that they must discharge that duty without
                            regard to whether they personally favour the death penalty or not. But
                            the wider public may need to be reminded.
...
The Board now proposes to depart from its recent decisions on all three
                        points. I do not think that there is any justification for doing so. It was
                        appropriate in Reckley v Minister of Public Safety and
                            Immigration (No 2) [1996] AC 527 for the Board
                        to review its previous decision in de Freitas v
                            Benny [1976] AC 239. Twenty years had passed,
                        during which there had been important developments in administrative law. In
                        particular, the notion once entertained that an exercise of the prerogative
                        was, as such, immune from judicial review had been repudiated by the House
                        of Lords in Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister
                            for the Civil Service [1985] AC 374. It was
                        arguable that the reluctance of the courts to impose a general rule of audi
                        alterem partem upon the exercise of the prerogative of mercy was a mere
                        relic of outdated theory. But the Board decided in the Reckley (No 2) case that there were still, in modern
                        conditions, strong enough grounds for maintaining the old rule. In Burt v Governor General [1992] 3 NZLR 672
                        Cooke P similarly decided that although there were no conceptual obstacles
                        to requiring the Governor General to observe the principle of audi alterem
                        partem in exercising the prerogative of mercy, pragmatic considerations in
                        New Zealand pointed the other way. The Board in the Reckley (No 2) case took the same view of conditions in
                        the Caribbean in 1996. Nothing has happened since then
                            which could justify revisiting the decision not to depart from de
                            Freitas v Benny [1976] AC 239.
[emphasis added]
52     It would thus appear that the current position
                    in the former British colonies in the Caribbean region is that the clemency
                    process with regard to capital punishment is subject to judicial review.
                    Further, the courts will go so far as to impose requirements of procedural
                    fairness such as the right to make representations, even though such
                    requirements are not provided for in their written Constitutions. The key
                    justification for doing so is that these Caribbean nations have ratified the
                    American Convention on Human Rights 1969.
India
53     The present law in India on the reviewability
                    of the clemency process is found in the key decision of Maru
                        Ram v Union of India 1981 (1) SCC 107 (“Maru Ram”). Prior to Maru
                        Ram, the position was that stated in G Krishta Goud v State of Andhra Pradesh
                    [1976] 2 SCR 73 (“G Krishta
                        Goud”). In G Krishta
                        Goud the petitioners had sought to review the President’s
                    decision on the ground that he had not taken into account two factors, namely
                    that their offences were ‘political’ in nature, and the prevailing
                    trends against the death sentence.
54     Although the Supreme Court of India observed
                    that there had previously been no definite pronouncement on the question of
                    justiciability in relation to the President's exercise of his power to pardon,
                    it found no reason to interfere with the manner in which the President had
                    exercised that power. It went on to comment (at 77), however, that in an
                    extreme situation, the courts would have to contemplate the suitability of
                    judicial review as a remedy:
We must however sound a note of caution. Absolute, arbitrary,
                        law-unto-oneself mala fide execution of public power, if gruesomely
                        established, the Supreme Court may not be silent or impotent. Assuming as
                        proved the case of a President gripped by communal frenzy and directing
                        commutation of all the penalties where the convict belongs to a certain
                        community and refusing outright where the convict belongs to a different
                        community, there may be, as Shri Garg urged, a dilemma for the Court.
                        Assuming the Governor in exercising his power under Art. 161 refusing to
                        consider cases of commutation where the prisoner is above 40 years of age as
                        a rule of thumb or arbitrarily out of personal vendetta rejecting the claim
                        of clemency of a condemned prisoner, is the Court helpless? This large
                        interrogation is highly hypothetical and whether the remedy is in Court or
                        by impeachment in Parliament or by rising resentment in public opinion, it
                        is not for us to examine now. Enough unto the day is the evil
                        thereof.
55     
          G Krishta Goud
                    therefore set the stage for a possible change in position should there be
                    evidence of abuse of the power of pardon. Indeed the opportunity was seized in
                    the decision of Maru Ram where the Supreme Court
                    of India acknowledged that the constitutional powers of the Indian President and
                    the State Governors to pardon have their origins from the prerogative of mercy
                    in England. However it also noted that that was where their similarities end
                    (at 145):
The present provisions (Sections 432 and 433) have verbal verisimilitude
                        and close kinship with the earlier Code of 1898 (Sections 401 and 402).
                        Likewise, the Constitutional Provisions of today were found even in the
                        Government of India Act, 1935. Of course, in English constitutional law, the
                        sovereign, acting through the Home Secretary, exercises the prerogative of
                        mercy. While the content of the power is the same even
                            under our Constitution, its source and strength and, therefore, its
                            functional features and accountability are different. We will
                        examine this aspect a little later. Suffice it to say that Articles 72 and
                        161 are traceable to Section 295 of the Government of India Act,
                        1935.
[emphasis added]
56     Essentially, the Supreme Court in Maru Ram held that, while the merits of the decision to
                    pardon was not subject to judicial review, it had the jurisdiction to review its
                    decision making process. It held that the power to pardon, being a
                    constitutional power derived from the written Constitution, was, like all public
                    powers, subject to judicial review, although on limited grounds
                    (at 147):
An issue of deeper import demands our consideration at this stage of the
                        discussion. Wide as the power of pardon, commutation and release (Arts. 72
                        and 161) is, it cannot run riot; for no legal power can run unruly like John
                        Gilpin on the horse but must keep sensibly to a steady course. Here, we come
                        upon the second constitutional fundamental which underlies the submissions
                        of counsel. It is that all public power, including
                            constitutional power, shall never be exercisable arbitrarily or mala
                            fide and, ordinarily, guidelines for fair and equal execution are
                            guarantors of the valid play of power. We proceed on the basis that
                            these axioms are valid in our constitutional order.
[emphasis added]
57     In Maru Ram, the
                    Indian Supreme Court was concerned with the issue whether an amendment to the
                    Indian Criminal Procedure Code which mandated that remission for two categories
                    of offences could not be reduced below 14 years imprisonment was
                    unconstitutional. In that context, the Indian Supreme Court approached the issue
                    by assuming that all public power including the
                    power to pardon could not be exercisable arbitrarily. Further, it is clear from
                    the decision that the Solicitor General of India also accepted the position and
                    therefore the point was not argued at all (at 146). Significantly, the relevant
                    decisions from other jurisdictions on this issue were not considered by the
                    Indian Supreme Court. In fact, the Indian Supreme Court specifically observed
                    that “its source and strength and, therefore, its
                        functional features and accountability are different” from
                    that in England.
58     It appeared to me that the Indian Supreme
                    Court, in carving out the limited circumstances under which it would review the
                    pardon process, was heavily influenced by the capricious exercise of the power
                    of pardon by some of the state Governors and even the Home Minister
                    (at 149):
Pardon, using this expression in the amplest connotation,
                        ordains fair exercise, as we have indicated above. Political vendetta or
                        party favouritism cannot but be interlopers in this area. The order which is
                        the product of extraneous or mala fide factors will vitiate the exercise.
                        While constitutional power is beyond challenge, its actual exercise may
                        still be vulnerable. Likewise, capricious criteria will void the exercise.
                            For example, if the Chief Minister of a State
                            releases every one in the prisons in his State on his birthday or
                            because a son has been born to him, it will an outrage on the
                            Constitution to let such madness survive. We make these observations
                            because it has been brought to our notice that a certain Home Minister's
                            visit to a Central Jail was considered so auspicious an omen that all
                            the prisoners in the jail were given substantial remissions solely for
                            this reason. Strangely enough, this propitious circumstance
                        was discovered an [sic] year later and
                        remission order was issued long after the Minister graced the penitentiary.
                        The actual order passed on July 18, 1978 by the Haryana Government reads
                        thus:
“In exercise of the powers conferred under Article 161 the
                            Constitution of India, the Governor of Haryana grants special:
                            remissions on the same scale and terms as mentioned in Govt. Of India,
                            Ministry of Home Affairs letter No. U. 13034/59/77 dated June 10, 1977
                            to Prisoners who happened to be confined in Central Jail, Tihar, New
                            Delhi on 29th May, 1977, at the time of the visit of Home Minister Govt.
                            Of India, to the said Jail and who has been convicted by the Civil
                            Courts of Criminal Jurisdiction in Haryana State.
A.    Banerjee
Secretary to Government of Haryana Jails Department
Dated: Chandigarh,
July 18, 1978.”

Push this logic a little further and the absurdity will
                            be obvious. No Constitutional power can be vulgarised by personal
                            vanity of men in authority. Likewise, if an opposition leader
                        is sentenced, but the circumstances cry for remission such as that he is
                        suffering from cancer or that his wife is terminally ill or that he has
                        completely reformed himself, the power of remission under Arts. 72/161 may
                        ordinarily be exercised and a refusal may be wrong- headed. If, on the other
                        hand, a brutal murderer, blood-thirsty in his massacre, has been sentenced
                        by a court with strong observations about his bestiality, it may be arrogant
                        and irrelevant abuse of power to remit his entire life sentence the very
                        next day after the conviction merely because he has joined the party in
                        power or is a close relation of a political high-up. The
                            court, if it finds frequent misuse of this power may have to investigate
                            the discrimination. The proper thing to do, if Government is
                        to keep faith with the founding fathers, is to make rules for its own
                        guidance in the exercise of the pardon power keeping, of course, a large
                        residuary power to meet special situations or sudden developments. This will
                        exclude the vice of discrimination such as may arise where two persons have
                        been convicted and sentenced in the same case for the same degree of guilt
                        but one is released and the other refused, for such irrelevant reasons as
                        religion, caste, colour or political loyalty.
59     The exercise of the power of pardon in India
                    continues to be controversial to this day. In a recent Supreme Court decision,
                    which was also cited by Mr Ravi, Arijit Pasayat J noted in Epuru Sudhakar v Government of Andhra Pradesh (2006) 8
                    SCC 161 (at 169–170) that:
[c]onsidering the fact that in large number of cases challenge is made to
                        the grant of pardon or remission, as the case may be, we had requested
                        Mr Sol J. Sorabjee to act as amicus curiae. He has highlighted various
                        aspects relating to the grant of pardon and remission, as the case may be,
                        and the scope of judicial review in such matters. He has suggested that
                            considering the frequency with which pardons and/or
                            the remissions are being granted, in the present political scenario of
                            the country it would be appropriate for this Court to lay down
                            guidelines so that there is no scope for making a grievance about the
                            alleged misuse of power.
[emphasis added]
60     In 2007, it was reported that the Supreme
                    Court had granted a stay of pardon after the Governor of Andhra Pradesh had
                    generally pardoned 1,500 prisoners to commemorate 150 years of India’s
                    first War of Independence. The position in India is therefore hugely affected by
                    local government politics, and the Supreme Court’s reaction to such abuses
                    of power was to subject such abuses to judicial review in order to limit the
                    grounds on which the powers can be exercised.
This Court’s decision on the position in Singapore
61     In Singapore, as Mr Ravi correctly
                    pointed out, we adhere to the general principle laid down by the Court of Appeal
                    in Chng Suan Tze v Minister of Home Affairs [1988]
                    2 SLR(R) 525 at [86] (“Chng Suan
                        Tze”), that: “[a]ll power has legal limits and the
                    rule of law demands that the courts should be able to examine the exercise of
                    discretionary power.” In Law Society of Singapore v
                        Tan Guat Neo Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239 at [148]
                    –[149], the Court of Appeal referred to this statement of principle in
                    observing that the constitutional power to prosecute is not unfettered, but is
                    judicially reviewable in exceptional cases.
62     In my respectful opinion, the principle of
                    legality so forcefully laid down in Chng Suan Tze
                    must be right. However, it only says that the courts can, and must, police the
                    legal limits of a power. It says nothing about the legal limits of a particular
                    power. That can only be done on a case-by-case basis, having regard to the
                    nature of the power under examination and the constitutional or statutory
                    provision under which the power arises. In Chng Suan
                        Tze, the power under examination was s 8(1) of the Internal
                    Security Act (Cap 143, 1985 Rev Ed) (“ISA”), which
                    provided that “the Minister shall make” a detention order
                    “if the President is satisfied with respect to any person that, with a
                    view to preventing that person from acting in any manner prejudicial to the
                    security of Singapore ..., it is necessary to do so”. The Court of Appeal
                    decided (at [30]) that the requirement that the President be satisfied meant
                    exactly that, and therefore, in order to demonstrate a valid exercise of the
                    power in s 8(1), it must be shown that the President was in fact
                    satisfied.
63     The power under examination here is Article
                    22P. Just as the Court of Appeal in Chng Suan Tze
                    examined s 8(1) of the ISA by reference to its plain wording, an examination of
                    Article 22P must begin in the same way. The clemency process under
                    Article 22P (2) mandates that:
Where any offender has been condemned to death by the sentence of any
                        court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has been confirmed by the
                        appellate court, the President shall cause the reports which are made to him
                        by the Judge who tried the case and the Chief Justice or other presiding
                        Judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the Attorney-General with
                        instructions that, after the Attorney-General has given his opinion thereon,
                        the reports shall be sent, together with the Attorney-General’s
                        opinion, to the Cabinet so that the Cabinet may advise the President on the
                        exercise of the power conferred on him by clause (1).
I can accept that if a sentenced person is able to show that the
                    reports are not furnished, or not sent to the Attorney-General, or if the
                    Cabinet does not advise the President, some judicial remedy must lie. In those
                    limited situations, such a sentenced person is entitled to apply for review on
                    the basis that the clear requirements laid down in Article 22P have not been
                    satisfied. However, in my view, the relief is only limited to require that the
                    relevant reports be submitted to the Attorney-General for him to provide his
                    opinion and thereafter for the Cabinet to advise the President on the exercise
                    of the power of pardon accordingly. For reasons explained in further detail
                    below (see [82]–[84] below), the applicant is not entitled to have
                    access to the reports by the courts, opinion by the Attorney-General or the
                    advice by the Cabinet. But once the analysis moves beyond the plain wording of
                    Article 22P, I think the court should be very cautious in implying legal limits
                    to the power to grant pardons. At the very least, the implied limits to the
                    power cannot derogate from its nature as evinced from its expressed aspects.
                    Otherwise the Court will be moving beyond the bounds of legitimate
                    interpretation into illegitimate legislation. As a general proposition I think
                    this is uncontroversial.
64     It is therefore necessary to look at the
                    nature of the pardon in Article 22P in deciding whether or not to imply legal
                    limits upon it. The express provisions of Article 22P precisely describe the old
                    English practice where mercy was a prerogative exercised by the sovereign on the
                    advice of his or her ministers and, where as a matter of practice, advice was
                    also taken by the responsible minister from the Attorney-General and the courts.
                    In addition, there are no express words delimiting the substantive grounds on
                    which the power in Article 22P may be exercised or not exercised. In my
                    judgment, therefore, while the Constitution has removed the power to grant
                    pardons from the realm of prerogative and placed it firmly within the realm of
                    law, it is nevertheless clear that the discretion afforded in deciding whether
                    or not to exercise the power remains very wide indeed. To borrow the words of
                    Lord Diplock in de Freitas v Benny, Article 22P is
                    very much a power that begins where the law ends. I am fortified in this
                    conclusion by the weight of the judicial opinion which I have surveyed. Of all
                    the jurisdictions that I have looked at, only Jamaica and India have permitted
                    judicial review of the substantive grounds on which pardons were granted or
                    refused. The Jamaican position is based on the premise that the clemency process
                    ameliorates the problems with a mandatory death penalty. It is therefore
                    inapplicable to Singapore, where the Court of Appeal has held, in a challenge
                    brought by Yong himself, that the mandatory death penalty is perfectly
                    constitutional. The Jamaican position is also based on that jurisdiction’s
                    ratification of the American Convention on Human Rights 1969, a treaty which
                    does not apply in the Singapore context.
65     As for India, the courts there plainly thought
                    that such gross abuses of power had occurred in the clemency process, such that
                    they were compelled to intervene. However, Mr Ravi is not arguing that this
                    is the case here and the Indian authorities are therefore
                irrelevant.
66     Finally, Mr Ravi also submitted that all
                    the decisions relied on by the Attorney-General in support of the proposition
                    that the clemency process is not justiciable are distinguishable as they only
                    concerned the merits of the pardon and not the decision making process. After
                    examining those authorities, I am satisfied that that was not the case. In fact,
                    it was clear that the courts have consistently declined to review the process of
                    the exercise of the prerogative of mercy on any ground at all.
67     For the reasons which follow, I am also of the
                    view that Article 22P is not justiciable on the grounds raised by Mr Ravi,
                        viz:
(a)that it is the President, and not the Cabinet,
                            who should exercise the power to grant pardons;
(b)that the clemency process is tainted because the
                            Cabinet has pre-judged Yong’s case, as evidenced by the
                            Minister’s statement; and
(c)that Yong has a right to see the materials before
                            the Cabinet.
I shall address each in turn.
Whether the power to grant pardons resides with the
                President
68     I can accept that if the power to grant pardon
                    is exercised by an officer or institution other than the one provided for in the
                    Constitution, a judicial remedy must lie. But, on the proper interpretation of
                    the Constitution, I am equally of the view that the power to grant pardons
                    resides with the Cabinet and not the President.
69     Under the Constitution, the default position
                    is that the President acts in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet or a
                    Minister acting under the general authority of the Cabinet. This is specifically
                    provided for under Article 21(1) of the Constitution:

Discharge and performance of functions of
                            President

21. —(1) Except as provided by this Constitution, the President
                        shall, in the exercise of his functions under this Constitution or any other
                        written law, act in accordance with the advice of the
                            Cabinet or of a Minister acting under the general authority of the
                            Cabinet.
[emphasis added]
The exceptions to this default position are exhaustively set out in
                    Article 21(2), which provides that the President may act in his discretion for
                    the following functions:
(2) The President may act in his
                            discretion in the performance of the following
                        functions:
(a) the appointment of the Prime Minister in accordance with Article
                            25;
(b) the withholding of consent to a request for a dissolution of
                            Parliament;
(c) the withholding of assent to any Bill under Article *5A, 22E, 22H,
                            144 (2) or 148A;
*Article 5A was not in operation at the date of this Reprint.
(d) the withholding of concurrence under Article 144 to any guarantee
                            or loan to be given or raised by the Government;
(e) the withholding of concurrence and approval to the appointments
                            and budgets of the statutory boards and Government companies to which
                            Articles 22A and 22C, respectively, apply;
(f) the disapproval of transactions referred to in Article 22B (7),
                            22D (6) or 148G;
(g) the withholding of concurrence under Article 151 (4) in relation
                            to the detention or further detention of any person under any law or
                            ordinance made or promulgated in pursuance of Part XII;
(h) the exercise of his functions under section 12 of the Maintenance
                            of Religious Harmony Act (Cap. 167A); and
(i) any other function the performance of which the President is
                            authorised by this Constitution to act in his discretion.
...
(5) The Legislature may by law make provision to require the
                        President to act after consultation with, or on the recommendation of, any
                        person or body of persons other than the Cabinet in the exercise of his
                        functions other than —
(a) functions exercisable in his discretion; and
(b) functions with respect to the exercise of which provision is made
                            in any other provision of this Constitution.
[emphasis added]
70     Mr Ravi submitted that based on the
                    saving clause under Article 21(2)(i), the
                    President may act in his own discretion to grant pardons since the discretion to
                    do so is vested with the President and not the Cabinet under Article 22P.
                    However on a plain reading of Article 22P(1), it is clear that the President
                    does not have any discretion and can only act on the advice of the Cabinet in
                    granting a pardon to a convicted offender:
22P. —(1) The President, as occasion shall arise, may, on the advice of the Cabinet —
(a) grant a pardon to any accomplice in any offence who gives information
                        which leads to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of the
                        principal offenders, if more than one;
(b) grant to any offender convicted of any offence in any court in
                        Singapore, a pardon, free or subject to lawful conditions, or any reprieve
                        or respite, either indefinite or for such period as the President may think
                        fit, of the execution of any sentence pronounced on such offender; or
(c) remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalty or
                        forfeiture imposed by law.
(2) Where any offender has been condemned to death by the sentence of any
                        court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has been confirmed by the
                        appellate court, the President shall cause the reports which are made to him
                        by the Judge who tried the case and the Chief Justice or other presiding
                        Judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the Attorney-General with
                        instructions that, after the Attorney-General has given his opinion thereon,
                        the reports shall be sent, together with the Attorney-General’s
                        opinion, to the Cabinet so that the Cabinet may advise
                            the President on the exercise of the power conferred on him by clause
                            (1).
[emphasis added]
71     Consistent with the default position under
                    Article 21(1) and the saving clause under Article 21(2)(i), the President is only empowered to act in his own discretion
                    in situations other than those spelt out in Article 21(2) where they are
                    specifically provided for under the Constitution. Such situations under the
                    Constitution include:

Moneys of the Central Provident Fund

22E. The President, acting in his
                        discretion, may withhold his assent to any Bill passed by
                        Parliament which provides, directly or indirectly, for varying, changing or
                        increasing the powers of the Central Provident Fund Board to invest the
                        moneys belonging to the Central Provident Fund.

...

President may withhold assent to certain
                            Bills

22H. —(1) The President may, acting in his
                            discretion, in writing withhold his assent to any Bill (other
                        than a Bill seeking to amend this Constitution), if the Bill or any
                        provision therein provides, directly or indirectly, for the circumvention or
                        curtailment of the discretionary powers conferred upon the President by this
                        Constitution.
...

Restraining order under Maintenance of Religious
                            Harmony Act

22I. The President, acting in his
                        discretion, may cancel, vary, confirm or refuse to confirm a
                        restraining order made under the Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act (Cap.
                        167A) where the advice of the Cabinet is contrary to the recommendation of
                        the Presidential Council for Religious Harmony.
[emphasis added]
It is clear that the framework under the Constitution is such that in
                    situations where the President is empowered to act in his own discretion, the
                    relevant provision provides for the President “acting
                        in his discretion”. This is to be contrasted with Article
                    22P where a contrary intention appears from the use of the words
                        “may, on the advice of the
                    Cabinet”.
72     I therefore hold that the President has no
                    discretion under the Constitution, and specifically under Article 22P, to grant
                    pardons. The power to do so rests solely with the Cabinet.
Apparent bias arising from pre-determination
73     I turn next to Mr Ravi’s argument
                    that the Minister’s Statement as well as the press release by the Ministry
                    of Law demonstrate that the Cabinet had pre-determined the outcome prior to
                    receipt of his clemency petition. Yong submitted that such pre-determination
                    constitutes apparent bias. This would require an examination of the following
                    issues:
(a)whether the Minister’s Statement and the
                            press release by the Ministry of law indicated a pre-determination of
                            the outcome of the clemency petition to be filed by Yong;
(b)if the answer to (a) above is in the affirmative,
                            whether such pre-determination in the context of the case would give
                            rise to reasonable suspicion of bias.
Apparent bias
74     It is more convenient to deal with apparent
                    bias first. In this application, the fatal difficulty with apparent bias is that
                    it is a test designed to apply to judicial or quasi-judicial institutions. This
                    is evident from the very test for apparent bias – “whether a
                    reasonable and fair-minded person sitting in the court and knowing all the
                    relevant facts would have had a reasonable suspicion that a fair trial was not
                    possible” (see Re Shankar Alan s/o Anant
                        Kulkarni [2007] 1 SLR(R) 85 (“Re Shankar”) at [77]). The rationale for this
                    ground of review is that there is a vital public interest in ensuring that
                    justice is manifestly and undoubtedly seen to be done. It bears explanation that
                    this is a vital public interest because the judiciary is not elected and
                    litigants have no recourse against it if they lose. In order for the system to
                    function, it is therefore of paramount importance that the judiciary strives to
                    conduct itself in such a way as to maintain the confidence of the public in the
                    administration of justice. At the very least, when a judge fails in this duty,
                    his error must be capable of correction by other judges.
75     Separately, the court is bound to only
                    consider the law and the facts in reaching its decision. Any predisposition to
                    consider anything else is therefore impermissible. The substantive scope of
                    apparent bias is correspondingly robust in the sense that it precludes
                    consideration of anything other than the law and the facts and, even then, a
                    judge cannot be “so committed to a conclusion already formed as to be
                    incapable of alteration, whatever evidence or arguments may be presented”
                    (see Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Jia
                        Legeng [2001] 205 CLR 507 (“Jia
                        Legeng”) at 532).
76     These reasons do not apply to acts by the
                    Executive branch. As a general proposition, it is self-evident that the
                    Executive is entitled to formulate and act in accordance with policy, which is
                    wide-ranging by its very nature and difficult to evaluate in accordance with
                    objective legal criteria. Separately, the vital need for public confidence in
                    the administration of justice does not obtain in quite the same way for
                    Executive action. I agree with Mr Chong’s submission that in our
                    Westminster-modelled system, the leaders of the Executive are chosen from the
                    elected ranks of Parliament and, together with the rest of the elected members,
                    are accountable to the electorate at the ballot box. If the Executive fails to
                    inspire public confidence, its leaders will pay the price at the ballot box.
                    There is no need for the court to interpose in this dynamic a requirement that
                    the Executive acts in an “apparently unbiased” way from the
                    perspective of a hypothetical fair-minded person. The real persons that make up
                    the electorate can apply whatever metric they think appropriate in evaluating
                    the decisions which the Executive has made.
77     This distinction was also recognised in
                        Jia Legeng at 539:
As the circumstances of the radio interview demonstrate, the Minister
                        himself can be drawn into public debate about a matter in respect of which
                        he may consider exercising his powers… The position of the Minister
                        is substantially different from that of a judge, or quasi-judicial officer,
                        adjudicating in adversarial litigation. It would be wrong to apply to his
                        conduct the standards of detachment which apply to judicial officers or
                        jurors.
In Hot Holdings Pty Ltd v Creasy [2002]
                    HCA 51 at 70, the High Court of Australia emphasised the importance of being
                    sensitive to the context of the relevant decision maker in question. The court
                    stressed that while the test remains “reasonable suspicion of
                    bias”, the content of the test may be different when applied to a
                    Minister:
[A] Minister would be entitled to act in accordance with governmental
                        policy when making a decision. Thus, it will ordinarily be very difficult to
                        impute bias or the reasonable suspicion of bias to the decision of a
                        Minister who has considered all applications on their merits but made it
                        clear that preference would be given to applicants who complied with
                        government policy.
A similar observation was made by Sundaresh Menon JC in Re Shankar at [80].
78     In this case, I would go further. The power in
                    Article 22P begins when the judicial process has ended and there are no
                    substantive criteria which delimit the grounds on which it can be exercised or
                    not exercised. It is eminently a discretionary power which can be exercised on
                    wide ranging grounds of policy, and in my judgment it might well be impossible
                    to articulate a justiciable conception of proper behaviour against which any
                    exercise or non-exercise of the power can be said to be apparently biased.
                    Certainly, the Minister’s Statement, which only articulated the
                    government’s policy on the death sentence as a deterrent against drug
                    trafficking, cannot by any measure be said to evince such apparent
                bias.
Pre-determination
79     The analysis with regard to pre-determination
                    is more nuanced. As a general proposition, it can be said that a grantee of a
                    discretionary power must actually exercise the discretion, ie consider the full range of relevant material, before reaching
                    a decision. More particularly, with reference to Article 22P(2), it can be said
                    that if the Cabinet reaches a decision before the mandated reports are presented
                    to it, this would short-circuit the constitutionally prescribed process and
                    therefore amount to an improper pre-determination. One thing, however, is clear
                    – the most that can be said of these points is that the Cabinet must
                        subjectively consider the materials prescribed
                    by Article 22P(2) before arriving at a decision. As for objective criteria, the
                    same reasons which I mentioned in the context of apparent bias apply with equal
                    force here – the highly discretionary nature of the power to grant pardons
                    defies review by objective and substantive legal criteria, and even if such
                    review was possible, there would be nothing objectionable or irrational about
                    the policy articulated by the Minister.
80     The factual question, then, is whether the
                    Cabinet had subjectively pre-determined
                    Yong’s imminent second petition for clemency even before his fresh
                    petition was filed. The Minister was reported to have said “Yong Vui Kong
                    is young. But if we say ‘we let you go’, what is the signal we are
                    sending?” Yong submitted that the remarks taken at face value indicated
                    that the Cabinet had already decided not to grant clemency to him even before
                    filing his fresh clemency petition. The Minister’s Statement must however
                    be viewed against the context. Yong was convicted and sentenced to death on 14
                    November 2008. Although he appealed against both conviction and sentence, he
                    subsequently withdrew the appeal on 29 April 2009. Thereafter, he filed the
                    First Petition on 11 August 2009. The First Petition was rejected by the
                    President on 20 November 2009. Under Article 22P of the Constitution, the
                    rejection of the First Petition would have been on the advice of the Cabinet.
                    Therefore, it was plain that the Cabinet had previously considered Yong’s
                    clemency petition and had advised the President to reject it. The principal
                    ground relied on in the First Petition was Yong’s age/youth. He was 19
                    years old at the time of the offence. Again, it is plain that this particular
                    ground was rejected. Further, during the hearing before me, I sought
                    clarification from Mr Ravi whether Yong would be relying on additional
                    grounds for the fresh clemency petition which were not covered in the First
                    Petition. Mr Ravi clarified that Yong would essentially be relying on the
                    same grounds, ie his age/youth. In the
                    circumstances, given that the Cabinet had already advised the President to
                    reject Yong’s First Petition some six months prior to the Minister’s
                    Statement and/or the press release, and the fact that Yong does not intend to
                    raise new grounds in his second clemency petition, in my view, there was no
                    question of pre-determination. In any event, I can see nothing objectionable
                    about the Minister’s Statement, which only restated the Cabinet’s
                    policy that the age of the offender per se should
                    not be a ground for the exercise of clemency for drug trafficking convictions. I
                    cannot infer from the Minister’s Statement that the Cabinet will not even
                        subjectively consider Yong’s second
                    petition and the materials put before it by virtue of Article 22P(2) when it
                    next advises the President.
81     Mr Ravi’s arguments on the apparent
                    bias and pre-determination points, whether taken singly or together, must
                    therefore fail.
Whether Yong has a right to the materials that will be before the
                Cabinet 
82     I come now to Mr Ravi’s final
                    argument. It bears reiteration that Mr Ravi is arguing for an ex ante, substantive right to the materials that will be
                    before the Cabinet, and not for the discovery of those materials in the pursuit
                    of some other substantive right. The distinction is vital, and appears to have
                    been overlooked by the Privy Council in Lewis
                        (supra[48]) when it held that a sentenced person
                    should have access to the materials before the executive when it makes its
                    decision on clemency, so that the courts can investigate any allegation of
                    arbitrariness in the process. When a substantive right is argued to have been
                    infringed, as was the Privy Council’s concern in Lewis, it is arguable that discovery of the relevant evidence
                    should lie as of right, and as a matter of procedure. When, as here, a
                    substantive right to information is alleged, quite independently of a breach of
                    any other right, there must be some other juristic basis. In this regard, the
                    only possible basis for a right to the materials before the Cabinet is that such
                    a right is a corollary to a larger duty to act judicially in coming to a
                    decision. However, there can be no such duty. I have said several times in this
                    judgment that the power to grant pardons is an executive power which is highly
                    discretionary in nature. This excludes, by necessary implication, any duty to
                    act judicially. This analysis finds support in the very procedure stipulated in
                    Article 22P(2), which prescribes a highly private process by which the relevant
                    materials ultimately come before the Cabinet. Even the courts whose reports are
                    prepared first, have no access to the Attorney-General’s opinion or the
                    Cabinet’s advice.
83     A similar conclusion was reached in de Freitas v Benny (supra
                    [46]) and, recently, in more detail in Reckley
                        (No 2). In Reckley (No 2)
                    Lord Goff of Chieveley decided the question against the petitioner on two
                    grounds: that there was no standard of fairness by which the discretion of mercy
                    could be managed, and, in any event, the express provisions did not provide for
                    any right to the materials and to make representations
                    (at 541–542):
In their Lordships’ opinion the petitioner faces similar
                        difficulties in respect of the alternative submission advanced on his
                        behalf, viz. that the principle of fairness required that he should be
                        entitled to make representations to the advisory committee and, for that
                        purpose, to see, or to be provided with the gist of, the material (including
                        the trial judge's report) which had been placed before the advisory
                        committee. In support of this proposition, reliance was placed on the
                        decision of the House of Lords in Reg. v. Secretary of
                            State for the Home Department, Ex parte Doody [1994] 1 A.C.
                        531. That case was however concerned with a different subject matter, viz.
                        the exercise by the Home Secretary of his statutory power to release on
                        licence a person serving a sentence of life imprisonment. It was there held
                        that the Home Secretary was bound to afford a prisoner serving a mandatory
                        life sentence the opportunity to submit in writing representations as to the
                        penal element in the sentence which he must serve, and further that, to
                        enable those representations to be effective, he must make available to the
                        prisoner the gist of the material upon which he will found when making his
                        decision. What is important for present purposes, however, is that Lord
                        Mustill (with whose speech the remainder of the Appellate Committee agreed)
                        was careful, at p. 556G-H, to distinguish that case from a case in which the
                        prisoner is “essentially in mercy” where
                            there is “no ground to ascribe to him the rights which fairness
                            might otherwise demand:” see p. 556H. That is
                        precisely the present case. Indeed it is clear from the
                            constitutional provisions under which the advisory committee is
                            established, and its functions are regulated, that the condemned man has
                            no right to make representations to the committee in a death sentence
                            case; and, that being so, there is no basis on which he is entitled to
                            be supplied with the gist of other material before the
                            committee. This is entirely consistent with a regime under
                        which a purely personal discretion is vested in the minister. Of course the
                        condemned man is at liberty to make such representations, in which event the
                        minister can (and no doubt will in practice) cause such representations to
                        be placed before the advisory committee, although the condemned man has no
                        right that he should do so.
84     I therefore hold that Yong has no right to see
                    the materials which will be before the Cabinet when it advises the
                    President.
Conclusion
85     In summary, the clemency process is not
                    justiciable on the grounds pursued by Yong, because:
(a)the power to grant pardons under Article 22P is
                            exercised by the Cabinet, and not the President, who has no discretion
                            in the matter;
(b)apparent bias is not an available ground on which
                            to review the clemency process;
(c)there is no evidence of a pre-determination of
                            Yong’s imminent petition; and
(d)there is no basis for a substantive right to the
                            materials which will be before the Cabinet when it advises the President
                            on the clemency petition.
86     In the absence of any meritorious ground on
                    which judicial review can be sustained, Yong’s application must be
                    dismissed. However, as the Registry of the Supreme Court by letter dated 8 June
                    2010 had treated this application as a criminal matter since it arises from a
                    criminal appeal, I shall make no order as to costs for this
                application.
87     I should also point out that the 26 August
                    2010 limit for the filing of the petition of clemency is fast approaching and I
                    understand that this time limit imposed by the Prison authorities is merely an
                    administrative one. In anticipation of the very likely decision by Yong to
                    appeal against my judgment, I would respectfully invite the Prison authorities
                    to extend the time limit for the filing of the fresh petition until such time as
                    the Court of Appeal reaches a decision.
88     It remains for me to express my appreciation
                    to, and commendation for, both counsel for the dedication and vigour which they
                    have shown in arguing their respective cases.
Copyright © Government of Singapore.
