


      Lim Meng Suang and another
      v
      Attorney-General
    [2013] SGHC 73Case Number:Originating Summons No 1135 of 2012Decision Date:09 April 2013Tribunal/Court:High CourtCoram:
      Quentin Loh J
    Counsel Name(s):
      Peter Cuthbert Low, Choo Zhengxi and Indulekshmi Rajeswari (Peter Low LLC) for the plaintiffs; 
      Aedit Abdullah SC, Jeremy Yeo Shenglong and Sherlyn Neo Xiulin (Attorney-General's Chambers) for the defendant.
    Parties:
      Lim Meng Suang and another — 
      Attorney-General
    
9 April 2013Judgment reserved.

        Quentin Loh J:
Introduction
1       In this originating summons (Originating Summons
                    No 1135 of 2012 (“OS 1135”)), the Plaintiffs seek to
                    impugn s 377A of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed)
                    (“the current Penal Code”) on the ground that it infringes their
                    right to equality before the law and equal protection of the law under
                    Art 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed,
                    1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”). Section 377A reads
                    as follows:

Outrages on
                        decency


377A.    Any male person who, in public or
                                private, commits, or abets the commission of, or procures
                            or attempts to procure the commission by any male
                                person of, any act of gross indecency with another male
                                person, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term
                            which may extend to 2 years.
[emphasis added]
The facts
2       Mr Lim Meng Suang
                    (“Mr Lim”), the first plaintiff, is 44 years old and a
                    Buddhist who was born and raised in Singapore. He has his own graphic design
                    company and has a Masters of Fine Arts in photography. Mr Kenneth Chee
                    Mun-Leon (“Mr Chee”), the second plaintiff, is 37 years old
                    and a free thinker who was also born and raised in Singapore. He is a graphic
                    designer working in Mr Lim’s company, and has a diploma in
                    electronics engineering. Mr Lim and Mr Chee met by chance in March
                    1997, and have been “in a romantic and sexual relationship” with
                    each other ever since, ie, for the past 16
                    years.
3       Mr Lim and Mr Chee do not live
                    together. In his supporting affidavit for OS 1135, Mr Lim says that
                    the main reason for this is his need to stay with and look after his ageing
                    parents who are not well. Mr Lim also says that his parents do not know
                    that he and Mr Chee are gay. Having said that, Mr Lim describes how,
                    over the years, his mother’s attitude has changed. There was an initial
                    confrontation over his friendship with Mr Chee, whom he had to deny was
                    gay, and her proscription not to do “gay things”. This then
                    progressed to her trying to find him a wife, with his godmother’s active
                    participation. Finally, over the last three or so years, Mr Lim says, there
                    has been tacit, but not open, acceptance by his mother of his relationship with
                    Mr Chee. His mother has stopped trying to match-make him and now tells his
                    godmother to leave him alone whenever she brings up the subject of finding him a
                    wife. His mother has also started inviting Mr Chee over for family events
                    and even reunion dinners. Mr Lim accepts that his mother is from a
                    different generation and does not push the issue. However, he has told his
                    siblings as well as his elder nephews and nieces about his sexual orientation,
                    and they have all accepted his being gay. Mr Chee has stayed overnight with
                    Mr Lim at times and this practice has continued for some
                time.
4       Mr Chee also lives with his family. In his
                    supporting affidavit for OS 1135, he deposes that his family accepts
                    Mr Lim as his close friend, but do not quite know the true nature of their
                    relationship. His family, unlike Mr Lim’s family, does not go out
                    much together, and he characterises his family’s policy as one of
                    “don’t ask, don’t tell”. Mr Chee is silent on
                    whether Mr Lim has ever stayed overnight at his home.
5       Besides working together, Mr Lim and
                    Mr Chee also go to the gym as well as for movies, window-shopping and
                    overseas holidays together. Both Mr Lim and Mr Chee feel that they
                    cannot be openly affectionate in public in Singapore. Mr Lim states that at
                    most, he puts his arm around Mr Chee’s shoulder in public. Both
                    Mr Lim and Mr Chee grew up with the knowledge that having gay sex was
                    illegal, but, more significantly, both of them felt the social stigma of being
                    gay as they were growing up, and this feeling of stigmatisation continues to
                    date.
6       Both Mr Lim and Mr Chee are also
                    apprehensive as they have heard of male homosexuals being charged with
                    “gross indecency” under s 377A of the current Penal Code.
                    Mr Lim runs TheBearProject, an informal
                    social group for “plus-sized” gay men who engage in activities
                    like hiking, movies, potluck gatherings, museum-hopping and overseas trips.
                    However, he is worried about getting into trouble with the authorities and
                    claims that it will be difficult to register TheBearProject as a society as automatic approval is not granted
                    to societies which relate to “sexual orientation”.
7       Mr Lim says that he experienced
                    discrimination in school and in the army, which discrimination continues till
                    this day, although his mother no longer asks him not to be gay. Similarly,
                    Mr Chee says that he has seen and also experienced discrimination against
                    gay people in school, in the army and in society. Both Mr Lim and
                    Mr Chee feel that s 377A of the current Penal Code reinforces this
                    discrimination, and that the very existence of this provision, whether or not it
                    is enforced, labels them as criminals. Whilst Mr Lim and Mr Chee do
                    not live in fear every day of being arrested, they say that it is always at the
                    back of their minds that if the authorities wanted to, they could arrest them
                    and charge them with an offence under s 377A of the current Penal
                    Code.
8       On 30 November 2012, Mr Lim and
                    Mr Chee (collectively referred to hereafter as “the
                    Plaintiffs”) filed OS 1135 seeking, in effect, a declaration that
                    s 377A of the current Penal Code is inconsistent with Art 12 of the
                    Constitution, and is therefore void by virtue of Arts 4 and 162 of the
                    Constitution. The defendant in this action, the Attorney-General (“the
                    Defendant”), has chosen not to file any affidavits in response. I
                    therefore take the Plaintiffs’ affidavits as the factual basis on which I
                    shall proceed to decide this case.
9       In this judgment, I shall be referring to both
                    s 377A of the current Penal Code as well as its predecessor provisions in
                    earlier editions of our Penal Code. For ease of reference, I shall use the term
                    “s 377A” to denote s 377A of the current Penal Code and,
                    where the context requires, the applicable predecessor provision in force at the
                    particular point in time being discussed. I shall also use the terms “s
                    377” and “the now-repealed s 377” interchangeably to refer
                    to the now-repealed s 377 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 1985 Rev
                    Ed) (“the 1985 Penal Code”), which criminalised “carnal
                    intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animals”.
                    As for the term “the Constitution”, it should be read as denoting
                    either the Constitution as defined at [1] above or, where the context requires,
                    the applicable predecessor version of the Constitution. References to
                    “male homosexual conduct” in the context of this judgment refer to
                    acts of “gross indecency” between males, and likewise, references
                    to “female homosexual conduct” refer to acts of “gross
                    indecency” between females.
Preliminary issues
Locus standi
10     This action is brought under O 15
                    r 16 and O 92 r 5 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5,
                    2006 Rev Ed) (“the Rules”). The first requirement which the
                    Plaintiffs have to meet before they can bring this action is that they must have
                    the requisite locus standi. I would have thought
                    that this was a threshold issue to be addressed as the Plaintiffs have not been
                    charged under s 377A; neither have they been threatened with prosecution.
                    No State organ or officer of the law has told or warned them that they cannot
                    have the relationship which they currently have, or that if they sleep together
                    in Mr Lim’s family home, they will be prosecuted. No one has
                    prohibited them from cohabiting. Indeed, in their supporting affidavits for
                    OS 1135, the Plaintiffs candidly state that the real pressure which they
                    experience on account of their relationship seems to have been from their
                    respective parents, their respective families and members of society, and not
                    from any officer of the law. This could have a possible bearing on how the court
                    exercises its discretion to determine whether the element of a real controversy
                    in the matter (see Karaha Bodas Co LLC v Pertamina Energy
                        Trading Ltd [2006] 1 SLR(R) 112) is satisfied.
11     As to whether the Plaintiffs have a real
                    interest in bringing this action and whether there has been a violation of their
                    personal rights, I note that the Court of Appeal in Tan Eng
                        Hong v Attorney-General [2012] 4 SLR(R) 476 (“Tan Eng Hong”) has stated at [126] that:
It is uncontroverted that s 377A is a law which specifically targets
                        sexually-active male homosexuals. The plain language of s 377A excludes both
                        male-female acts and female-female acts. Tan professes to be a member of the
                        targeted group, and the AG has not disputed this claim. Therefore, since we
                        have found that s 377A arguably violates the Art 12(1) rights of its target
                        group, as a member of that group, Tan’s rights have arguably been
                        violated by the mere existence of s 377A in the statute books (see above at
                        [94]). We also accept that there is a real and credible threat of
                        prosecution under s 377A (see below at [175]-[183]).
12     Be that as it may, since counsel for the
                    Defendant, Mr Aedit Abdullah SC
                    (“Mr Abdullah SC”) from the Attorney-General’s
                    Chambers, has not argued that the Plaintiffs do not have the requisite locus standi to bring the present proceedings, I shall
                    proceed on the basis that the Defendant is not disputing that the Plaintiffs do
                    have the requisite locus standi.
The requests made by the Plaintiffs’ counsel in
                chambers
13     At the start of the hearing, Mr Peter
                    Cuthbert Low (“Mr Low”), counsel for the Plaintiffs, first
                    applied for Assistant Professor Jack Lee (“Asst
                    Prof Lee”) from the School of Law, Singapore Management University,
                    and Assistant Professor Lynette Chua (“Asst Prof Chua”)
                    from the Law Faculty, National University of Singapore (“NUS”), to
                    sit in for the hearing. Mr Low said that Asst Prof Lee and Asst
                    Prof Chua had been engaged by his firm from the start of these proceedings,
                    had assisted in putting the written submissions together and were part of his
                    legal team. Mr Low also said that he might need to consult Asst
                    Prof Lee and Asst Prof Chua over any legal points that might arise in
                    the course of the oral submissions. Mr Low confirmed that neither Asst
                    Prof Lee nor Asst Prof Chua held practising
                certificates.
14     Mr Abdullah SC objected to
                    Mr Low’s application, stating that Asst Prof Lee and Asst
                    Prof Chua were not advocates and solicitors with practising certificates
                    but merely advisors, and their presence was not necessary.
                    Mr Abdullah SC submitted that if Mr Low wanted to consult Asst
                    Prof Lee and Asst Prof Chua at any point during the hearing, he could
                    always ask the court for a short break to do so. Mr Abdullah SC also
                    submitted that in principle, Asst Prof Lee and Asst Prof Chua did not
                    have a sufficient “interest” in OS 1135 to have the right to
                    sit in for this hearing, which was being held in chambers.
                    Mr Abdullah SC conceded, however, that I had the discretion to either
                    allow or disallow Mr Low’s application.
15     I decided to allow Asst Prof Lee and Asst
                    Prof Chua to sit in for the hearing on the basis that they were part of
                    Mr Low’s legal team and had assisted him with OS 1135 from the
                    beginning as well as with the drafting of the written submissions. They were in
                    a position akin to experts, who may be allowed to sit behind counsel in a
                    hearing and whom counsel may, from time to time in the course of a hearing, turn
                    to consult. Furthermore, as OS 1135 raised an important constitutional
                    issue, I was particularly glad to have an assistant professor from each of our
                    law schools present: although they had no speaking rights at the hearing, they
                    could make very valuable contributions by their input through Mr Low.
                    Indeed, I noticed many notes being passed to Mr Low by Asst Prof Lee
                    and Asst Prof Chua during the course of the oral submissions. I
                    additionally gave the parties a two-hour lunch adjournment after the
                    morning’s hearing so as to enable Asst Prof Lee and Asst
                    Prof Chua to fully discuss the afternoon’s reply submissions with
                    Mr Low. No doubt, Mr Abdullah SC would likewise have used that
                    long lunch adjournment to discuss his reply submissions with his
                    colleagues.
16     Mr Low next asked permission for
                    Mr M Ravi (“Mr Ravi”), counsel for the plaintiff in
                    Originating Summons No 994 of 2010 (“OS 994”), to sit in
                    for the hearing. The plaintiff in OS 994 is likewise challenging the
                    constitutionality of s 377A and seeks reliefs similar to those sought by
                    the Plaintiffs in this case, but based on different facts. Upon my query,
                    Mr Low clarified that this request was not from the Plaintiffs nor from
                    him; instead, Mr Ravi had been outside my chambers and had asked
                    Mr Low to make the request. As Mr Ravi represented a different client
                    in a different case and as the proceedings before me were proceedings in
                    chambers, Mr Ravi did not have any interest in these proceedings other than
                    as an observer. It appeared from the correspondence exchanged between
                    Mr Ravi and Mr Low that they had discussed the developments in their
                    respective cases with each other. I was of the view that Mr Low was free to
                    tell Mr Ravi what happened in chambers after the hearing of OS 1135
                    was over. Moreover, Mr Ravi would have his chance to present his oral
                    submissions in OS 994 before me on another day. I accordingly ruled against
                    his presence in chambers.
Similar proceedings
17     OS 994 (as mentioned above at [16]) gave
                    rise to the Court of Appeal’s judgment in Tan Eng
                        Hong. OS 994 was initially struck out by the High Court
                    under O 18 r 19 of the Rules on the basis that it disclosed no
                    reasonable cause of action and/or was frivolous and/or was an abuse of the
                    process of court. The Court of Appeal allowed the plaintiff’s appeal,
                    holding that he had the necessary standing to seek the declarations which he
                    sought, and gave him leave to argue his case before the High Court. The Court of
                    Appeal said (at [184] of Tan Eng Hong):
Without going into the merits of the Application, we want to acknowledge
                        that in so far as s 377A in its current form extends to private
                        consensual sexual conduct between adult males, this provision affects the
                        lives of a not insignificant portion of our community in a very real and
                        intimate way. Such persons might plausibly assert that the continued
                        existence of s 377A in our statute books causes them to be
                        unapprehended felons in the privacy of their homes. The constitutionality or
                        otherwise of s 377A is thus of real public interest.
18     The Court of Appeal (at [185] of Tan Eng Hong) framed a two-stage inquiry for the High
                    Court to ascertain the constitutionality of s 377A under Art 12 of the
                    Constitution as follows:
(a)     whether the classification
                        prescribed by s 377A was founded on an intelligible differentia;
                        and
(b)     whether
                        that differentia bore a rational relation to the object sought to be
                        achieved by s 377A.
I approach OS 1135
                    accordingly.
The parties’ respective cases
The Plaintiffs’ submissions
19     The Plaintiffs’ first argument is that
                    s 377A is contrary to Art 12 because the equal protection afforded by
                    Art 12(1) extends to prevent discrimination on the basis of sexual
                    orientation.
20     Second, the Plaintiffs contend that
                    s 377A fails the test of legality under Art 12 because s 377A is
                    so absurd, arbitrary and unreasonable that it cannot be considered good law. The
                    reasons given for this are that: (a) s 377A criminalises sexual
                    orientation, which is practically immutable; (b) s 377A is overly
                    broad; (c) even the Government has acknowledged that s 377A has been
                    arbitrarily and selectively enforced; (d) s 377A attempts to legislate
                    morality in an arbitrary and discriminatory manner; (e) s 377A comes
                    from tainted origins; (f) s 377A causes tangible harm to a segment of
                    the population in that it limits the outreach of HIV/AIDS preventive measures to
                    and inflicts psychological damage on that segment of the population;
                    (g) s 377A makes it difficult for gay or bisexual men who have been
                    exploited or abused by their sexual partners to approach law enforcement
                    officers for protection, leaving them particularly vulnerable to blackmail; and
                    (h) s 377A provides potential grounds for impugning otherwise regular
                    commercial transactions involving homosexual men.
21     The Plaintiffs’ third set of arguments
                    addresses the two-step test set out by the Court of Appeal in Tan Eng Hong at [185] to determine the constitutionality or
                    otherwise of an allegedly unconstitutional legislative provision (“the
                    two-step Tan Eng Hong test”) (see [18]
                    above). Mr Low contends that s 377A fails the first step of the test
                    as the classification which it prescribes discloses no intelligible differentia.
                    It also fails the second step of the test as the differentia upon which that
                    classification is based bears no rational relation to the object of
                    s 377A.
22     The Plaintiffs’ fourth group of
                    contentions centre on international and comparative jurisprudence on a growing
                    trend outside Singapore of guarding against discrimination based on sexual
                    orientation.
23     Because of the Plaintiffs’ emphasis in
                    their written and oral submissions that s 377A is contrary to
                    Art 12(1) as it discriminates against gay or bisexual men in an arbitrary,
                    absurd and unreasonable manner, I asked Mr Low to clarify whether this
                    factor (viz, discrimination in an arbitrary,
                    absurd and unreasonable manner) was to be considered separate from –
                    ie, a third requirement in addition to – the
                    two-step Tan Eng Hong test, or whether it was to
                    be treated as a concept applicable to how that two-step test was to be applied.
                    Mr Low clarified that this factor was an over-arching principle that sat
                    above the two-step Tan Eng Hong test. Essentially,
                    Mr Low’s position is that a “law which is so absurd or
                    arbitrary that it could not have been contemplated by our constitutional framers
                    as ‘law’ when they crafted the constitutional provisions protecting
                    fundamental liberties cannot be good law”.[note: 1]
24     In relation to the Plaintiffs’
                    submission that the classification prescribed by s 377A discloses no
                    intelligible differentia, Mr Low makes three points. The first is that the
                    term “gross indecency” is too vague and does not allow s 377A
                    to be applied with certainty. The second is that the vagueness of s 377A
                    means that the provision could conceivably be applied in a grossly
                    over-inclusive manner. The third point is that s 377A is under-inclusive as
                    it criminalises only male homosexual conduct and not female homosexual
                        conduct.[note: 2] It is unclear how the second
                    and third points made by Mr Low relate to whether the classification
                    prescribed by s 377A is founded on an intelligible differentia (viz, the first step of the two-step Tan Eng Hong test), although they may be relevant to the inquiry
                    into whether there is a rational relation between the differentia used in
                    s 377A and the object of s 377A (viz,
                    the second step of the two-step Tan Eng Hong
                    test).
25     Mr Low submits that the “main
                    intent and purpose of [s 377A] is clear: it is to prevent homosexual acts
                    by criminalising them”. He also posits “two other discernible
                    objectives” of s 377A, namely, to “not cause offence and
                    polarisation in society” and to “reflect societal conservatism and
                    preserve family values”.[note: 3]
26     Mr Low submits that the retention of
                    s 377A has led to the polarisation of society, which is the opposite effect
                    of what Parliament intended. With regard to the objective of reflecting societal
                    conservatism and preserving family values, Mr Low submits that there is no
                    evidence to suggest that criminalising homosexuality will strengthen or preserve
                    stable family values, or that decriminalising homosexuality will have a negative
                    impact on family values or encourage homosexuality.[note: 4] Mr Low further argues that s 377A is
                    unnecessary for the maintenance of public decency and the protection of young
                    persons in light of other gender-neutral criminal provisions in the current
                    Penal Code which are targeted at these objectives.[note: 5]
The Defendant’s submissions
27     Counsel for the Defendant,
                    Mr Abdullah SC, submits, first, that the classification prescribed by
                    s 377A is founded on an intelligible differentia and, second, that the
                    differentia bears a rational relation to the object of s 377A in terms of
                    public morality[note: 6] or public
                        health.[note: 7]
28     On the “intelligible
                    differentia” point, Mr Abdullah SC states that the differentia
                    which underlies the classification prescribed by s 377A is based on gender.
                    Persons within the group targeted by s 377A are men committing acts of
                    “gross indecency” with other men. Persons left out of the group
                    are “women committing comparable acts”.[note: 8]
29     On the “rational relation”
                    point, Mr Abdullah SC submits that there are two possible objectives
                    of s 377A, both of which would bear a rational relation to the differentia
                    underlying the classification prescribed by that section. The first objective of
                    s 377A is concerned with preserving public morality in relation to male
                    homosexual conduct and signifying society’s disapproval of such conduct.
                    According to Mr Abdullah SC, this was the purpose of s 377A when
                    it was first introduced into our penal legislation in 1938, and this purpose was
                    also reflected in the Parliamentary debates in October 2007 on whether or not
                    s 377A should be repealed (“the October 2007 Parliamentary
                    Debates”): see Singapore Parliamentary Debates,
                        Official Report (22–23 October 2007) vol 83 at
                    cols 2175–2305 and 2354–2445. Mr Abdullah SC also
                    submits that the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates further posit that the
                    retention of s 377A recognises and helps to preserve the heterosexual
                    family as the social norm in Singapore, and is the result of a political balance
                    decided upon by our Legislature.
30     With respect to the alternative objective of
                    safeguarding public health, Mr Abdullah SC argues that although this
                    objective may not have been articulated at the inception of s 377A, it
                    ought to be accepted as a justification for differentiation at the time of
                    s 377A’s enactment if it is a reasonable rationale.[note: 9] Mr Abdullah SC then refers to
                    various medical reports which appear to suggest that there is a higher risk of
                    certain diseases such as anal cancer, HIV/AIDS, syphilis, gonorrhoea and
                    chlamydia for male-male sexual acts compared to male-female and female-female
                    sexual acts.[note: 10]
31     Mr Abdullah SC also submits that the
                    non-inclusion of female homosexual conduct in s 377A is based on a rational
                    criterion because public morality does not target female homosexual conduct in
                    the same way as it targets male homosexual conduct. This can be inferred from
                    the existence of s 377A, the lack of an articulated public demand for
                    s 377A to be repealed and the lack of governmental legislative initiatives
                    to criminalise female homosexual acts. A possible reason for this, as submitted
                    by Mr Abdullah SC, is that female homosexual conduct is either less
                    prevalent or is seen as being less repugnant than male homosexual conduct.
                    Mr Abdullah SC also submits that the non-inclusion of female
                    homosexual conduct in s 377A shows, at most, that the classification
                    prescribed by s 377A is under-inclusive, and under-inclusive classification
                    cannot, without more, mean that the law has prescribed a classification which is
                    contrary to Art 12. This is borne out of the appreciation that legislative
                    leeway should be given to Parliament. In this regard, Mr Abdullah SC
                    cites the Indian Supreme Court’s decision in Shri Ram
                        Krishna Dalmia v Shri Justice SR Tendolkar (1959) SCR 279
                        (“Ram Krishna Dalmia”) at 296
                    that “the Legislature is free to recognise degrees of harm and may
                    confine its restrictions to those cases where the need is deemed to be the
                    clearest”.
32     Lastly, Mr Abdullah SC submits that
                    the court must have regard to the presumption of constitutionality, which, he
                    says, assumes the constitutionality of the law and places the burden of proving
                    unconstitutionality on the person alleging it.[note: 11] Thus, Mr Abdullah SC
                    submits, the burden is on the Plaintiffs to prove that “either the
                    enactment or operation of the statutory differentiation was arbitrary, or, alternatively, that it does not rest upon
                        any reasonable basis”[note: 12] [emphasis in original]. The discharge of
                    this burden usually requires proof of positive evidence of arbitrariness. This
                    also means that the court is entitled to take the view that s 377A does not
                    cover female homosexual conduct as Parliament has chosen not to proscribe such
                    conduct.
My analysis
The fundamental liberties enshrined in Art 12(1)
33     The Plaintiffs rest their arguments squarely
                    on Art 12. They contend that s 377A offends the fundamental liberties
                    granted by Art 12(1) and should accordingly be struck down as
                    unconstitutional. Article 12(1) reads as follows:

Equal
                        protection


12.—(1) All persons are equal
                        before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law.
…
34     The oft-cited ideals enshrined in
                    Art 12(1) are that, first, all persons are equal before the law and,
                    second, all persons are entitled to the equal protection of the law. These twin
                    concepts of equality before the law and equal protection of the law are well
                    known and of considerable antiquity. Courts have traced these concepts’
                    origins to the Magna Carta, also called the Magna Carta Liberatum (The Great
                    Charter of the Liberties of England), signed at Runnymede in 1215, where the
                    King of England conceded that he was not the fount of all law and justice and
                    introduced the idea of the supremacy of the law of the land. Thereafter, the
                    last vestiges of the feudal system with monarchical supremacy and aristocratic
                    privileges were swept away by the French Revolution beginning in 1789 with a
                    reputed battle cry which included the words “Equality” and
                    “Liberty”. It is not surprising, therefore, to find these two
                    ideals –
                    viz, equality before the law and equal protection
                    of the law – enshrined in many other Constitutions. These include the
                    Fourteenth Amendment of the US Constitution (“the US Fourteenth
                    Amendment”) and, in particular, Art 14 of the Indian Constitution,
                    upon which our Art 12 is obviously based. Article 14 of the Indian
                    Constitution reads:
The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the
                        equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
As can be expected, the Malaysian Constitution, from which our
                    Constitution was drawn, has an identical provision in
                Art 8(1).
35     The first principle in Art 12(1) –
                    viz, equality before the law – comes from
                    English common law, which prohibits special privileges in favour of any
                    individual and mandates the equal subjection of all classes of persons to the
                    law: see Albert Venn Dicey, Law of the
                        Constitution (Macmillan, 10th Ed, 1959) at
                    pp 202–203. A person’s social standing, achievements,
                    accolades, wealth, learning and family ties are not distinguishing factors as
                    far as the law and its application are concerned, nor do they entitle a person
                    to any different treatment under the law.
36     The formulation of the second principle in
                    Art 12(1) –
                    viz, that all persons are entitled to the equal
                    protection of the law – comes from the US Fourteenth Amendment, which
                    prescribes that “no state shall … deny to any person within its
                    jurisdiction the equal protection of the
                    laws” [emphasis added]: see Durga Das Basu, Commentary on the Constitution of India (S C Sarkar
                    & Sons (P) Ltd, 6th Ed, 1975) at vol B, p 1. Some historical
                    background to this provision would be helpful. The US Fourteenth Amendment was
                    enacted in 1868, shortly after the end of the American Civil War, to counter
                    legislation in the former Confederate States which restricted the rights of
                    freed black slaves to own both personal and real property as well as to enter
                    into certain kinds of contracts, and subjected them to harsher criminal
                    penalties than whites. The US Fourteenth Amendment was necessary to redress this
                    discrimination by making such legislation unconstitutional, and to guarantee the
                    rights of and protect emancipated black slaves who were now also full citizens
                    of the US just like their white counterparts: see Tan Yock Lin, “Equal
                    Protection, Extra-Territorialiy and Self-Incrimination” (1998)
                    19 Sing LR 10 (“Tan Yock Lin”)
                    at p 11. Thus, in Strauder v West Virginia
                    100 US 303 (1880), a statute in West Virginia which excluded blacks from
                    serving on juries was struck down by the US Supreme Court as unconstitutional
                    under the US Fourteenth Amendment and the conviction of a black man by an
                    all-white jury was set aside. The equal protection clause also ensured that
                    other races enjoyed the same civil rights that were enjoyed by whites. In
                        Yick Wo v Hopkins 118 US 356 (1886)
                        (“Yick Wo”), the US Supreme
                    Court struck down not the law, which was fair and impartial on its face, but the
                    administrative discriminatory implementation of the law against the Chinese, who
                    were refused licences to operate their laundries in wooden buildings in San
                    Francisco, whereas many non-Chinese secured licences to operate laundries in
                    similar buildings. Stanley Matthews J, writing for the court, said (at
                    369):
These provisions are universal in their application, to all persons within
                        the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of
                        colour, or of nationality; and the equal protection of the laws is a pledge
                        of the protection of equal laws.
The court also noted that no reason was given as to why the Chinese
                    petitioners in Yick Wo, along with two hundred
                    other Chinese, were denied the right to operate their laundries in wooden
                    buildings, whilst eighty other non-Chinese were granted licences to do so. The
                    US Supreme Court went on to rule (at 374):
The fact of this discrimination is admitted. No reason for it is shown,
                        and the conclusion cannot be resisted, that no reason for it exists except
                        hostility to the race and nationality to which the petitioners belong, and
                        which in the eye of the law is not justified. The discrimination is,
                        therefore, illegal, and the public administration which enforces it
                            is a denial of the equal protection of the laws and a
                            violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
                        [emphasis added]
37     Professor Tan Yock Lin
                    (“Prof Tan”) has argued in Tan Yock
                        Lin (at p 11) that initially, the principle of equal
                    protection of the law was restricted to being a guarantee of procedural or
                    administrative equality, but was soon expanded to include a guarantee of
                    substantive equality as well (citing Haji Harun bin Haji
                        Idris v Public Prosecutor [1977] 2 MLJ 155 (“Datuk
                        Haji”)). With respect, I agree.
38     It will be seen that equality before the law
                    and equal protection of the law are but different aspects of the same doctrine
                    – equal justice. The first expresses the immutable principle of equal
                    subjection of all classes of persons to the law, and the second is the positive
                    aspect of that principle which reaches out, when invoked, to strike down unequal
                    laws and discriminatory administrative or executive action as unconstitutional
                    and void.
39     In Public Prosecutor v Taw
                        Cheng Kong [1998] 2 SLR(R) 489 (“Taw Cheng Kong (CA)”), the Court of Appeal (at
                    [52]–[53]) noted the origin of these twin concepts as follows:
52    … This
                            concept is not new, being part of the wider doctrine of the rule of law,
                            and its origin can perhaps be traced all the way back to the
                            40th article of the Magna Carta:
To none will we sell, to none will we deny, to none will we delay
                            right or justice.
53    As observed by the
                            Malaysian court in PP v Su Liang Yu [1976]
                            2 MLJ 128 at 129:
The dominant idea in both expressions ‘equal before the
                            law’ and ‘equal protection of the law’ is that of
                            equal justice. The meaning of these two expressions have been decided in
                            a number of decisions of the US Supreme Court and also the Indian
                            Supreme Courts [sic] …
This correctly encapsulates the origins of the US
                    Fourteenth Amendment. One of the prime movers of the US Fourteenth Amendment was
                    Congressman John Armor Bingham of Ohio. In one of his speeches to the House of
                    Representatives, he emphasised that “equal protection of the laws”
                    stemmed from Art 40 of the Magna Carta: see Cong
                        Globe, 42nd 1st Sess Appendix, 83 (1871).
40     It has been well said by Dr Thio Su Mien
                    (“Dr Thio”), a former dean of the NUS Law Faculty and a
                    prominent lawyer, in S M Huang-Thio, “Equal Protection and
                    Rational Classification” [1963] PL 412 (“Huang-Thio”) (at p 412) that:
… [A] constitution … institutionalises in legal terms the
                        highest aspirations of a people, amongst which is the establishment of an
                        egalitarian society. Equalitarianism runs deep in man, and age cannot wither
                        nor custom stale its infinite vitality.
41     Herein lies the paradox: it becomes evident
                    the moment one moves from lofty ideals, which have everything to commend them,
                    to practical implementation. As Dr Thio herself postulates, do
                    “equal laws” connote that all laws must be equal in their
                    application? Must all laws apply universally to all persons in all
                    circumstances? Dr Thio’s self-evident answer (at p 413)
                    is:
Clearly this is well-nigh impossible. Human beings are not equal by
                        nature, attainment, circumstances and conditions. Their needs vary and their
                        problems require separate treatment.
Legislatures around the world have to continually classify diverse
                    groups and activities within their society for different purposes and different
                    treatment in areas such as health care, welfare and immigration, just to name a
                    few. This is clearly illustrated in issues like taxation, differences between
                    corporations and individuals, protection of women, young children and the
                    mentally infirm – the list is long. It is implicit from Art 12 itself
                    that Art 12(1) does not prohibit classification in toto because it is immediately followed by two other clauses,
                    Art 12(2) and Art 12(3), which set out, respectively, prohibited and
                    permitted kinds of discriminatory classification:
(2)    Except as expressly
                            authorised by this Constitution, there shall be no discrimination
                            against citizens of Singapore on the ground only of religion, race,
                            descent or place of birth in any law or in the appointment to any office
                            or employment under a public authority or in the administration of any
                            law relating to the acquisition, holding or disposition of property or
                            the establishing or carrying on of any trade, business, profession,
                            vocation or employment.
(3)    This
                            Article does not invalidate or prohibit —
(a)    any provision
                                regulating personal law; or
(b)    any provision or
                                practice restricting office or employment connected with the affairs
                                of any religion, or of an institution managed by a group professing
                                any religion, to persons professing that religion.
42     The Indian Supreme Court in Chiranjit Lal v Union of India (1950) SCR 869 (“Chiranjit Lal”) acknowledged (at 932):
It is plain that every classification is in some degree likely to produce
                        some inequality.
Similarly, in Public Prosecutor v Su Liang
                        Yu [1976] 2 MLJ 128 (“Su Liang
                        Yu”), which was cited by our Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng Kong (CA) at [53] (see [39] above), the
                    Malaysian court said (at 129):
Due to the demands caused by the complexity of modern government the
                        doctrine of classification was evolved by the courts for practical purposes
                        and read into the equality provisions. It has been accepted therefore that a
                        legislature for the purpose of dealing with the complex problems arising out
                        of an infinite variety of human relations cannot but proceed upon some sort
                        of selection or classification of persons upon whom the legislation is to
                        operate.
Prof Tan opines (see Tan Yock Lin
                    at p 12):
Another remarkable past phenomenon was the dash of apology attributing the
                        necessity of differentiation to the complexity of modern laws, expressed by
                        Frankfurther J in these terms: “The more complicated society
                        becomes, the greater the diversity of problems and the more does legislation
                        direct itself to the diversities” [citing Morey v
                            Daud 354 US 457 at 472 (1957)]. Again, from our distance
                        of time, a more enlightened and encompassing view is much to be preferred:
                        that differentiation is the essence of law. No law is, nor can be, free from
                        it; for the law represents the authority to divide and dispose of, and thus
                        differentiate in, a nation’s resources, its past, present and future
                        burdens and privileges.
Our anxiety to secure equal protection particularly in reformative
                        legislation explains why we have overlooked this fact that all law, written
                        or unwritten, differentiates.
43     In Taw Cheng Kong
                        (CA), the Court of Appeal cited (at [57]) with approval the
                    following passage from the judgment of Salleh Abas LP (which, although a
                    dissenting judgment, was not disputed in terms of the law applied and the
                    approach taken) in Malaysian Bar v Government of
                        Malaysia [1987] 2 MLJ 165 (“Malaysian Bar”) at 166–167:
The requirement for equal protection of the law does not mean that all
                        laws passed by a legislature must apply universally to all persons and that
                        the laws so passed cannot create differences as to the persons to whom they
                        apply and the territorial limits within which they are in force. Individuals
                        in any society differ in many respects such as, inter
                            alia, age, ability, education, height, size, colour, wealth,
                        occupation, race and religion. Any law made by a
                            legislature must of necessity involve the making of a choice and
                            differences as regards its applications in terms of persons, time and
                            territory. Since the legislature can create differences, the question is
                            whether these differences are constitutional. The answer is this: if the
                            basis of the difference has a reasonable connection with the object of
                            the impugned legislation, the difference and therefore the law which
                            contains such provision is constitutional and valid. If on the other
                            hand there is no such relationship the difference is stigmatized as
                            discriminatory and the impugned legislation is therefore
                            unconstitutional and invalid. This is known as the doctrine
                        of classification which has been judicially accepted as an integral part of
                        the equal protection clause. [emphasis in original]
44     It is therefore clear and important to note
                    that Parliament, in dealing with the issues arising within and without the
                    country, is entitled to pass laws that deal with, inter
                        alia, the myriad of problems that arise from the inherent
                    inequality and differences pervading society. In so dealing with specific
                    problems and specific groups of people, it is inevitable that classification
                    will produce inequality of varying degrees. It is now settled law that equality
                    before the law and equal protection of the law under Art 12(1) does not
                    mean that all persons are to be treated equally, but that all persons in like
                    situations are to be treated alike: see, eg,
                        Taw Cheng Kong (CA) and Ong
                        Ah Chuan and another v Public Prosecutor [1979–1980] SLR(R)
                    710 (“Ong Ah Chuan”).
The “reasonable classification” test
45     The test for constitutionality under
                    Art 12(1) has been termed the “reasonable classification”
                    test (see Nguyen Tuong Van v Public Prosecutor
                    [2005] 1 SLR(R) 103 (“Nguyen”)
                    at [70] and Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor and another
                        matter [2010] 3 SLR 489 (“Yong Vui
                        Kong”) at [111]). This test is well established in the
                    common law. The Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng Kong
                        (CA) distilled the “reasonable classification” test
                    from the Privy Council decision of Ong Ah Chuan at
                    [37], the Indian Supreme Court cases of Ram Krishna
                        Dalmia and Ghulam Sarwar v Union of
                        India [1967] 2 SCR 271, and the Malaysian cases of Datuk Haji and Government of Malaysia
                        v VR Menon [1990] 1 MLJ 277. It also cited with
                    approval two of the three judgments delivered in Malaysian
                        Bar, namely, the judgment of Salleh Abas LP (see [43] above)
                    and that of Mohamed Azmi SCJ (see Malaysian
                        Bar at 170), quoting (inter alia)
                    the following extract from the latter judgment (see Taw Cheng
                        Kong (CA) at [58]):
…
(b)    Discriminatory law
                            is good law if it is based on ‘reasonable’ or
                            ‘permissible’ classification, provided that
(i)    the classification is founded on an
                                intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons that are
                                grouped together from others left out of the group;
                            and
(ii)   the differentia has a rational relation to
                                the object sought to be achieved by the law in question. The
                                classification may be founded on different bases such as
                                geographical, or according to objects or occupations and the like.
                                What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of
                                classification and the object of the law in question.
46     This test is the same as the two-step
                        Tan Eng Hong test set out at [18] above, which
                    is binding upon me. In accordance with that test, where the impugned legislation
                    has a differentiating measure, that legislation will only be consistent with
                    Art 12(1) if:
(a)     the classification prescribed by the
                        legislation is founded on an intelligible differentia (“the First
                        Limb”); and
(b)     the differentia bears a rational relation to the object sought to be
                        achieved by that legislation (“the Second
                    Limb”).
The First Limb – intelligible differentia
47     The First Limb requires that the
                    classification prescribed by the impugned legislation must be based on an
                    intelligible differentia. “Intelligible” means something that may
                    be understood or is capable of being apprehended by the intellect or
                    understanding, as opposed to by the senses. “Differentia” is used
                    in the sense of a distinguishing mark or character, some attribute or feature by
                    which one is distinguished from all others. Scientifically, one talks of an
                    attribute by which a species is distinguished from all other species of the same
                    genus.
48     Applying this to the present case, it is quite
                    clear that the classification prescribed by s 377A –
                    viz, male homosexuals or bisexual males who
                    perform acts of “gross indecency” on another male – is based
                    on an intelligible differentia. It is also clear from the differentia in
                    s 377A that the section excludes male-female acts and female-female acts.
                    There is little difficulty identifying who falls within this classification and
                    who does not. The Court of Appeal seemed to say as much in Tan Eng Hong at [125]–[126]. In my view, the First Limb is
                    satisfied and few can cavil with this conclusion.
The Second Limb – rational relation to the object of the
                legislation
49     The Second Limb requires an ascertainment of
                    the object or purpose of the statutory provision in question followed by a
                    determination of whether the differentia underlying the classification
                    prescribed by that legislation bears a rational relation to the object or
                    purpose of the provision. Both these elements are more complex than they
                    appear.
50     Determining the purpose or object of a piece
                    of legislation is not always a straightforward task, for example:
(a)     What if the legislation in question
                        or the Legislature is silent on the purpose or object of the legislation? Do
                        we frame the purpose or object generally with regard to all the provisions
                        of the legislation, or do we only take the section or group of sections
                        which we are concerned with?
(b)     There is sometimes a general statement explaining the
                        need for an Act when it is first introduced in Parliament, but does that
                        general statement always apply to the many individual and varying statutory
                        provisions within the Act, which may be quite specific in their application
                        and effect? The current Penal Code, with over 500 sections, is a prime
                        example.
(c)     If the
                        legislation in question was added as an amendment, and in introducing the
                        amendment, there was no or insufficient articulation of the purpose or
                        object of that amendment, what purpose or object is to be ascribed to it?
                        Should it be its own purpose or object as ascertained by the court, or the
                        original purpose or object of the statute within which it appears when that
                        statute was first introduced in Parliament?
(d)     Is the purpose or object of a piece of
                        legislation to be framed narrowly and/or simply, or widely and therefore
                        more vaguely? As we shall see below from the High Court’s judgment in
                            Taw Cheng Kong v Public Prosecutor [1998]
                        1 SLR(R) 78 (“Taw Cheng Kong
                        (HC)”) and the Court of Appeal’s judgment in
                            Taw Cheng Kong (CA), how the purpose of a
                        piece of legislation is framed does make a difference when ascertaining
                        whether there is a rational relation between the differentia underlying the
                        classification prescribed by that legislation and the purpose of that
                        legislation.
(e)     What if, as here, the provision in question started out as a provision
                        enacted in England in 1885, and was later introduced into Singapore in 1938?
                        Assuming the purpose of the provision was expressed when it was enacted in
                        England, do we take that original English purpose or the purpose for which
                        the provision was introduced into Singapore in 1938? More generally, in
                        determining the purpose or object of a local statutory provision, can we
                        look at the Parliamentary records of the country or countries from which the
                        provision originated?
(f)     What if additionally, as in this case, substantial amendments to the
                        1985 Penal Code were tabled before Parliament in October 2007 but not on
                        s 377A, although there were debates (ie,
                        the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates (see [29] above)) on the continued
                        retention of that section as well as a call for its repeal because of a
                        petition submitted by a Nominated Member of Parliament
                        (“NMP”), and no vote was ultimately taken on its possible
                        repeal: do we ascertain or identify the object or purpose of s 377A
                        based on the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates? What if there are
                        differences between the purpose of s 377A as stated in 1938 when this
                        provision was first introduced into our penal legislation and the purpose as
                        stated during the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates: which purpose or
                        purposes are to be adopted?
(g)     What if the original purpose or object of the legislation
                        in question is no longer valid or has ceased to exist, but there is a new
                        and valid purpose or object which the legislation fulfils: are we permitted
                        to substitute the new purpose or object to ascertain whether the differentia
                        underlying the classification prescribed by that legislation bears a
                        rational relation to this new purpose or object?
51     When we come to the “rational
                    relation” element, we can also face some very daunting issues. For
                    instance:
(a)     If the courts are able to ascertain
                        a more efficient or different classification which will better achieve the
                        purpose or object of the legislation concerned, can the courts then strike
                        down the legislation on the basis that the differentia underlying the
                        classification prescribed therein lacks a rational relation with the purpose
                        or object of that legislation?
(b)     What if there is significant under-classification
                            (eg, the object or purpose of the
                        legislation covers five different groups in society, but the legislation
                        only singles out and affects one of the five groups): does that point to the
                        non-existence of a rational relation between the differentia underlying the
                        classification prescribed by the legislation and the purpose or object of
                        that legislation?
(c)     What if there is significant over-classification (eg, the object or purpose of the legislation covers two
                        groups in society, but the legislation affects not only those two groups but
                        five other groups as well): does that likewise point to the non-existence of
                        a rational relation between the differentia underlying the classification
                        prescribed by the legislation and the purpose or object of that
                        legislation?
(1)   The difficulties of applying the Second Limb: Taw Cheng Kong (HC) and Taw Cheng Kong
                    (CA)
52     Some of the complexities in applying the
                    Second Limb can be illustrated by a comparison of the respective approaches
                    taken in Taw Cheng Kong (HC) and Taw Cheng Kong (CA). In the discussion which follows (at
                    [53]–[61] below), only the relevant aspects of these two decisions in
                    relation to Art 12 will be considered, with the other issues raised
                        (eg, the ultra
                        vires doctrine and the admissibility or inconsistency of
                    evidence) being put to one side.
53     The accused in Taw Cheng
                        Kong (HC), a Singapore citizen, was a regional manager of the
                    Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (“GIC”) based in
                    Hong Kong. He was in charge of GIC’s equity portfolios in Hong Kong and
                    the Philippines, and had the authority to decide which companies GIC would
                    invest in, with about S$1 billion at his disposal. He was convicted by a
                    District Court of corruption for receiving from one Kevin Lee, a Managing
                    Director of Rockefeller’s Far East operations, various sums of money each
                    time GIC invested in a Pioneer Hong Kong Fund managed by Rockefeller and an
                    “incentive fee” each time he caused GIC to purchase shares in
                    certain companies. The accused’s conviction was based on
                        s 6(a) of the Prevention of Corruption
                    Act (Cap 241, 1993 Rev Ed) (“the PCA”), read together
                    with s 37(1) thereof, which provides as follows:
The provisions of this Act have effect, in relation to citizens of
                        Singapore, outside as well as within Singapore; and where an offence under
                        this Act is committed by a citizen of Singapore in any place outside
                        Singapore, he may be dealt with in respect of that offence as if it had been
                        committed within Singapore.
54     One of the grounds which the accused relied
                    upon in his appeal to the High Court against his conviction and sentence by the
                    District Court was that s 37(1) of the PCA discriminated against him as a
                    Singapore citizen and violated his rights under Art 12(1). He contended
                    that the criterion of citizenship in s 37(1) of the PCA was arbitrary and
                    discriminatory, in that if a non-citizen or a Singapore permanent resident,
                    together with a Singapore citizen, jointly committed an offence under the PCA
                    abroad, only the Singapore citizen could be dealt with and charged, but not the
                    non-citizen or the Singapore permanent resident.
55     M Karthigesu JA, sitting as a High
                    Court judge on the accused’s appeal, found that s 37(1) of the PCA
                    was discriminatory and violated the accused’s rights under Art 12(1).
                    He therefore held s 37(1) of the PCA to be unconstitutional, allowed the
                    accused’s appeal and set aside his conviction and sentence. In dealing
                    with the Second Limb (viz, whether the differentia
                    of citizenship adopted in s 37(1) of the PCA bore a reasonable relation or
                    rational nexus to the object of that Act), Karthigesu JA ruled:
(a)     According to the relevant
                        Parliamentary debates, the PCA was originally enacted in 1960 (as the
                        Prevention of Corruption Ordinance 1960 (No 39 of 1960) (“the
                        original PCA”)) to eradicate corruption from Singapore’s Civil
                        Service (“the Singapore Civil Service”) and among fiduciaries
                        in Singapore, and not corruption globally irrespective of national
                        boundaries.
(b)     Section 37(1) of the PCA was not part of the original PCA and was
                        added by an amendment in 1966. It was incorrect, as a matter of statutory
                        interpretation, to “rely on earlier material to interpret subsequent
                        legislation as if the subsequent legislation was tailored from a
                        retrospective standpoint … to fit seamlessly into the schematics of
                        the original Act” (see Taw Cheng Kong
                            (HC) at [40]), and it was important to look at the amending
                        legislation afresh.
(c)     From the Parliamentary material relating to the enactment of the
                        original PCA in 1960 and the subsequent addition of s 37(1), it could
                        be seen that s 37(1) was added to address acts of corruption taking
                        place outside Singapore but affecting events within
                    Singapore.
(d)     Therefore, classification along the lines of citizenship was an
                        unreasonable means of attaining the objective of s 37(1) of the PCA for
                        it was both over-inclusive and under-inclusive:
(i)       It was over-inclusive as it
                            included a class of persons not originally contemplated as falling
                            within the objective of the PCA: eg, a
                            Singapore citizen who was now a permanent resident of and employed in a
                            foreign country, and who received a bribe in a foreign currency from a
                            foreign payor for an act to be done in that foreign country and not
                            Singapore. Such a person would be guilty of a corruption offence because
                            of s 37(1) of the PCA.
(ii)       It was under-inclusive as it failed to include
                            a class of persons who clearly fell within the mischief sought to be
                            addressed by the PCA: eg, a Singapore
                            permanent resident or a foreigner working in the Singapore Civil Service
                            who took a trip outside Singapore to receive a bribe in Singapore
                            dollars in relation to an act which he was do in Singapore. Such a
                            person would not be caught by s 37(1) of the
                    PCA.
(e)     The
                        Singapore permanent resident or foreigner in scenario (d)(ii) above
                        posed a greater threat to the integrity of the Singapore Civil Service than
                        the Singapore citizen employed abroad in scenario (d)(i) above, but
                        only the latter, and not the former, was caught by s 37(1) of the
                        PCA.
(f)     The
                        strength of the nexus or relation between the objective of the PCA and the
                        differentia underlying the classification prescribed therein (viz, the differentia of citizenship) was
                        insufficient to justify the derogation from the constitutional guarantee of
                        equality in Art 12(1).
56     As pointed out by Prof Tan in Tan Yock Lin (at pp 15–16),
                    Karthigesu JA’s narrow framing of the object or purpose of the PCA
                    was decisive. Karthigesu JA tied the objective of the PCA back to
                    Singapore, ie, the object of the PCA was to
                    eradicate corruption which infringed on the efficient running of the Singapore
                    Civil Service and stem out corrupt practices amongst fiduciaries in Singapore. Since s 37(1) of the PCA was added to
                    address acts of corruption taking place outside Singapore but affecting events
                        within Singapore, that made the differentia
                    employed –
                    viz, that of citizenship – more vulnerable
                    to failing to achieve the purpose.
57     Following the accused’s acquittal by the
                    High Court in Taw Cheng Kong (HC), the
                    Attorney-General brought a criminal reference on questions of law under
                    s 60 of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 1985 Rev
                    Ed). One of these questions was whether s 37(1) of the PCA was
                    discriminatory against Singapore citizens and, hence, inconsistent with
                    Art 12(1). The Court of Appeal considered the concept of equality and the
                    tests for determining whether a statute or an executive act violated
                    Art 12, applied those tests to s 37(1) of the PCA and answered this
                    question in the negative. In dealing with the issues surrounding the object of
                    the PCA and the application of the “rational relation”
                    requirement, the following points made by the Court of Appeal (at
                    [60]–[88] of Taw Cheng Kong (CA)) are
                    germane:
(a)     Without commenting on
                        Karthigesu JA’s approach to statutory interpretation in
                        ascertaining the purpose or object of the PCA and of the later enactment of
                        s 37(1) of the PCA (see [55(b)]–[55(c)] above), the Court of
                        Appeal looked at the preamble to the PCA, which reads: “[a]n Act to
                        provide for the more effectual prevention of corruption”, and framed
                        the purpose of s 37(1) of the PCA quite differently and broadly (see
                            Taw Cheng Kong (CA) at [63]):
We thought it obvious that the 1966 introduction of the
                            extra-territorial clause in [s 37(1)] was, inter
                                alia, to widen the ambit of the Act [ie, the original PCA] for the more effective control and
                            suppression of corruption.
(a)     Thus
                        formulated, s 37(1) of the PCA was capable of capturing all corrupt
                        acts by Singapore citizens outside Singapore while still falling within the
                        broad purpose of controlling and suppressing corruption.
(b)     The removal from the objective of the
                        PCA of any reference to acts of corruption which had a demonstrable effect
                        in Singapore made it immediately easier to justify the constitutionality of
                        the differentia prescribed in s 37(1) of the PCA.
(c)     The Court of Appeal also dismissed the
                        notion that the under-inclusiveness or over-inclusiveness of s 37(1) of
                        the PCA meant that it was unconstitutional:
(i)       In the case of
                            under-inclusiveness, Parliament had to respect international comity,
                            which made it impractical to extend s 37(1) of the PCA to
                            non-citizens outside of Singapore.
(ii)       In the case of over-inclusiveness
                                (viz, a Singapore citizen who was a
                            foreign permanent resident employed in a foreign country and who
                            received a bribe paid in foreign currency by a foreign payor for an act
                            to be done in that foreign country), it was irrelevant to the
                            constitutional issue of equality because s 37(1) of the PCA applied
                            to all Singapore citizens as a class.
(b)     The Court of Appeal said (at [82] of
                            Taw Cheng Kong (CA)):
… [I]f the differentiation along the line of citizenship was
                            justified and permissible, as we so held, over-inclusiveness was
                            irrelevant to the constitutional issue. Section 37(1) was only
                            over-inclusive because, as the learned judge found, it captured that
                            segment of Singapore citizens not contemplated by the [PCA]. But, this
                            would not offend the equality provision because the section would apply
                            to all Singapore citizens as a class. It
                            followed then that the objection to classification between citizens and
                            non-citizens on the basis of over-inclusiveness did not arise at all.
                            [emphasis in original]
(d)     The Court of
                        Appeal (at [81] of Taw Cheng Kong (CA))
                        accepted that even if s 37(1) of the PCA was under-inclusive, in that
                        it failed to capture non-citizens whose corrupt acts outside Singapore had
                        consequences in Singapore, the overriding need to observe international
                        comity made it impractical to extend s 37(1) of the PCA to capture
                        non-citizens whose corrupt acts outside Singapore had consequences in
                        Singapore. The Court of Appeal also held that it was undeniable that
                        s 37(1) of the PCA would go some way toward capturing the corrupt acts
                        of Singapore citizens abroad and that, itself, furthered the object of the
                        PCA. It said (likewise at [81]):
… [S]urely it was undeniable that s 37(1) would go some
                            way in capturing the corrupt acts of citizens abroad, and that in itself
                            would have furthered the object of the [PCA] – that in our view
                            was sufficient; the under-inclusiveness of the provision was not fatal.
                            The enactment of a provision need not be seamless and perfect to cover
                            every contingency. Such a demand would be legislatively impractical, if
                            not impossible.
(e)     The Court of
                        Appeal found that it was not unreasonable or irrational for s 37(1) of
                        the PCA not to apply to the corrupt activities of Singapore permanent
                        residents and non-citizens which took place outside
                Singapore.
58     Prof Tan has made a number of comments on
                        Taw Cheng Kong (CA) in Tan
                        Yock Lin (at pp 15–16). The first relates to the
                    importance of the proper framing of the object or purpose of the impugned
                    legislation. If the true purpose of s 37(1) of the PCA and the PCA itself
                    is not to deter the causing of harmful effects in
                    Singapore from corruption but to deter the participation of Singaporeans in corruption, then the objection of
                    over-inclusiveness (based on the example of the Singapore citizen who lives
                    abroad and commits a corrupt act abroad which has no effect in Singapore)
                    disappears because it falls within the aforesaid re-framed purpose.
                    Prof Tan has also made the following comments (see Tan
                        Yock Lin at pp 18–19):
(a)     The Court of Appeal was wrong in
                        dismissing over-inclusiveness as irrelevant on the ground that s 37(1)
                        of the PCA applied to all Singapore citizens. In other words, it was
                        incorrect of the Court of Appeal to say that since there was equality within
                        the class targeted by s 37(1) of the PCA, the provision was fair, and
                        the differentiation permissible. Prof Tan comments that this amounts to
                        a tautology and, therefore, no classification would ever be over- or
                        under-inclusive:
This syllogistic dismissal of the objection of overinclusiveness
                            betrays its premises, since it amounts to an argument that class
                            fairness is a tautology and on this account, nothing that is
                            overinclusive or underinclusive can ever be recognised. But in the first
                            place, the willingness to test for inclusiveness predicates the
                            rejection of a tautologous conception of class fairness. A convincing
                            answer must therefore be found outside the expression brandished in
                                Ong Ah Chuan v PP.
(b)     If the
                        under-inclusiveness of s 37(1) of the PCA is justified purely on the
                        basis of international comity, then whilst this might explain why the
                        citizenship criterion is sound, there would be a glaring under-inclusion in
                        the case of the Singapore permanent resident. In Prof Tan’s
                        view:
The under-inclusion of the permanent resident seems, however, to have
                            been ignored in both courts principally because the arguments focused on
                            the supposed ideal effects criterion, contrasting the nationality
                            criterion with it. But if considerations of international comity explain
                            why the nationality criterion is sound, the omission of the permanent
                            resident becomes a glaring omission. He seems to go with the citizen as
                            wood goes with fire. Would there not be a serious under-inclusion in his
                            omission?
59     With the greatest respect, and with due
                    deference to the Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng Kong
                        (CA), Prof Tan does make some valid points, the most
                    important of which, in my view, is his criticism of the use of tautological
                    reasoning in deciding whether or not a classification is constitutionally
                    permissible. In this same regard, Prof Tan raised the Privy Council case of
                        Ong Ah Chuan as another example of
                    tautological reasoning. The question posed to the Privy Council in that case (at
                    [32]) was whether it was inconsistent with Art 12(1) to impose a mandatory
                    death penalty on an offender who “gratuitously supplied an addict friend
                    with 15g of heroin from his own private store, and to inflict a lesser
                    punishment upon a professional dealer caught selling for distribution to many
                    addicts a total of 14.99g”. In answering this question, Lord Diplock
                    made a number of important observations (at [33] and [35]–[37]):
33    Their Lordships would emphasise that in their
                            judicial capacity they are in no way concerned with arguments for or
                            against capital punishment or its efficacy as a deterrent to so evil and
                            profitable a crime as trafficking in addictive drugs. Whether there should be capital punishment in Singapore and if so,
                                for what offences are questions for the Legislature of
                                Singapore. …
…
35    … Equality before the law and equal
                            protection of the law require that like should be compared with like.
                            What Art 12(1) of the Constitution assures to the individual is the
                            right to equal treatment with other individuals in similar
                            circumstances. It prohibits laws which
                            require that some individuals within
                                a single class should be
                            treated by way of punishment more harshly than others; it does not
                            forbid discrimination in punitive treatment between
                                one class of individuals and another
                                class in relation to which there is some difference in
                            the circumstances of the offence that has been committed.
36    The discrimination that the appellants challenge in
                            the instant cases is discrimination between class and class: the
                            imposition of a capital penalty upon that class of individuals who
                            traffic in 15g of heroin or more and the imposition of a penalty, severe
                            though it may be, which is not capital upon that class of individuals
                            who traffic in less than 15g of heroin. The dissimilarity in
                            circumstances between the two classes of
                            individuals lies in the quantity of the drug that was involved in the
                            offence.
37    The questions whether this dissimilarity in
                            circumstances justifies any differentiation in the punishments imposed
                            upon individuals who fall within one class and those
                                who fall within the other, and, if so, what are the
                            appropriate punishments for each class, are questions
                                of social policy. Under the Constitution, which is based
                            on the separation of powers, these are questions which it is the
                            function of the Legislature to decide, not that of the Judiciary.
                                Provided that the factor which the Legislature adopts as constituting the dissimilarity in circumstances is not
                                purely arbitrary but bears a reasonable relation to the social
                                object of the law, there is no inconsistency with
                            Art 12(1) of the Constitution.
[emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
60     Lord Diplock’s judgment presents
                    two clear strands of principles. The first strand concerns differentiation
                    within the same class, which is always prohibited; the second concerns
                    differentiation between two or more different classes, which is permissible if
                    it passes the “reasonable classification” test. If we apply
                    Prof Tan’s reasoning, it will be seen that this is, in effect, a
                    possibly illusory distinction. Although Lord Diplock appears to have
                    distilled two categories of cases, there is in fact only one category governed
                    by the fundamental rule that “like should be treated alike”. This
                    is because within Lord Diplock’s first category of differentiation
                        (ie, differentiation within one single class),
                    it is more often than not conceptually possible to break down the single class
                    into smaller classes, thereby creating two or more classes. For example,
                    returning to Taw Cheng Kong (HC) and Taw Cheng Kong (CA), Singapore citizens, Singapore
                    permanent residents and foreigners living in Singapore can all perform corrupt
                    acts which adversely affect the Singapore Civil Service and/or fiduciaries in
                    Singapore. We can create one class with all three groups within it on the basis
                    that their corrupt acts adversely affect the Singapore Civil Service and/or
                    fiduciaries in Singapore. In such an event, we cannot discriminate within that
                    one big class. But, we can also create two classes out of the three groups: one
                    class that resides here, and another class that resides outside Singapore but
                    performs corrupt acts which affect Singapore. It would then be acceptable to
                    discriminate against one class because such discrimination would be across
                    classes, but we are, in effect, discriminating against some of these people but
                    not others when they were previously grouped as one big class. The same
                    tautology is seen if we classify these persons into three classes –
                    viz, Singapore citizens, Singapore permanent
                    residents and foreigners living in Singapore – in which case, it is again
                    permissible to discriminate against a particular class. Similarly, we can
                    classify these same persons into six groups: from each of the three groups
                        (viz, Singapore citizens, Singapore permanent
                    residents and foreigners living in Singapore), we can divide them further into
                    those that do acts which affect Singapore, and those that do not. We can divide
                    them further into twelve groups if we add in the factor of where the
                    gratification was accepted or where the bribe was made, ie, whether in Singapore or overseas.
61     The way to avoid this tautology is to be less
                    fixated with the idea of classes, and more focused
                    on the fundamental rubric that “like should be treated alike”. In
                    determining whether like persons are being treated alike, the inquiry has to be
                    informed by the purpose of the legislation in question and its connection to the
                    differentia underlying the classification prescribed by the challenged
                    legislation. Speaking in the abstract of permissible discrimination between classes and impermissible discrimination
                        within a class is not helpful.
62     Bearing in mind the above, I now examine the
                    object of s 377A and the issue of whether there is a rational relation
                    between that object and the differentia underlying the classification prescribed
                    by s 377A. I begin with the former.
(2)   What is the object of s 377A?
(A)   The Labouchere Amendment
63     The Court of Appeal in Tan
                        Eng Hong has (at [23]–[33]) comprehensively set out the
                    legislative history of s 377 and s 377A, and there is no need to
                    repeat the same, save to refer to it where relevant. The wording of s 377A
                    comes from the amendment commonly known in England as “the Labouchere
                    Amendment” (see Tan Eng Hong at [26]),
                    which was introduced into English criminal law via s 11 of the Criminal Law
                    Amendment Act 1885 (c 69) (UK) (“the UK 1885 Act”). The
                    proposer of this amendment, Mr Henry Labouchere
                    (“Mr Labouchere”), was described as a radical Liberal Party
                    Member of Parliament (“MP”) and a banking heir who had put his
                    money and energies into a radical, muck-raking newspaper called
                    “Truth”. He advocated, inter alia,
                    the abolition of the House of Lords and an end to racism, and championed the
                    working classes, women and the dispossessed: see Douglas E Sanders,
                    “377 and the Unnatural Afterlife of British Colonialism in Asia”
                    (2009) 4 Asian Journal of Comparative Law 163 at p 176. The preamble to the
                    UK 1885 Act stated that it was an Act to make further provision for, inter alia, the protection of women and girls and the
                    suppression of brothels. Section 11 of that Act specifically focused on
                    sexual conduct, both in public and in private, between male homosexuals and was
                    thus not quite related to the preamble. The reasons for the enactment of the
                    Labouchere Amendment are now a little obscure. Francis Barrymore Smith
                    (“Smith”), in his article “Labouchere’s Amendment to
                    the Criminal Law Amendment Bill” (1976) 17 Historical Studies 165
                        (“F B Smith”), states
                    that: “[t]he question [of why the Labouchere Amendment was enacted] can
                    never be settled convincingly. Mr Labouchere’s personal papers mostly
                    seem to have been destroyed and the few that are known have no bearing on this
                    episode.” At paras 106–108 of the United Kingdom Report of the
                    Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution (Cmnd 247,
                    1957) (“the Wolfenden Report”), the additional points
                    emerge:
(a)     Buggery and attempted buggery,
                        wherever and with whomsoever committed, have long been criminal offences in
                        the UK. These acts are criminal offences regardless of whether they are
                        committed in public or in private and whether they are committed between
                        consenting parties or non-consenting parties.
(b)     The Labouchere Amendment was introduced in the
                        late stages of a Bill to make further provision for, inter alia, the protection of women and girls and the
                        suppression of brothels (“the 1885 Bill”). Specifically, this
                        amendment was introduced in the House of Commons at the report stage of the
                        1885 Bill (ie, the 1885 Bill had already been
                        passed by the House of Lords, where it had been introduced without any
                        reference to “gross indecency” between males).
                        Mr Labouchere’s reasons for introducing the amendment were
                        recorded as follows (see Daily Debates
                            (6 August 1885) at
                        col 1397):
… [A]t present any person on whom an assault of the kind here
                            dealt with was committed must be under the age of 13, and the object
                            with which [Mr Labouchere] had brought forward this clause was to
                            make the law applicable to any person whether under the age of 13 or
                            over that age …
(c)     The Labouchere
                        Amendment was passed by the House of Commons without any discussion on its
                        substance, the only question raised being whether it was in order to move an
                        amendment that dealt with a class of offence totally different from the
                        offences contemplated by the 1885 Bill, which had already been read for the
                        second time in the House of Commons.
(d)     The Speaker of the House of Commons ruled that anything
                        could be introduced by the leave of the House, and the Labouchere Amendment
                        was adopted.
(e)     The clause which became s 11 of the UK 1885 Act went much wider than
                        Mr Labouchere’s stated intention as set out at sub-para (b)
                        above, and it seems probable that the UK Parliament let it pass without the
                        detailed consideration which such an amendment would almost certainly
                        receive today.
(f)     Lastly, s 11 of the UK 1885 Act read as follows:

Any male person who, in public or private, commits, or is a party to the
                            commission of, or procures or attempts to procure the commission by
                                any male person of, any act of gross
                            indecency with another male person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanour,
                            and being convicted thereof shall be liable at the discretion of the
                            court to be imprisoned for any term not exceeding two years, with or
                            without hard labour. [emphasis added]
It appears that the original intent behind s 11 of the
                    UK 1885 Act was to protect any person from an indecent assault “of the
                    kind here dealt with”, regardless of whether that person was below or
                    above 13 years of age and whether the act in question was committed in public or
                    in private. It was not specifically directed at criminalising male homosexual
                    conduct. However, what was eventually passed into law was something different
                    and more far-reaching as it made acts of “gross indecency” between
                    males, whether in public or in private and whether or not there was consent, an
                    offence.
64     Although the purpose of the Labouchere
                    Amendment and the history of its passage into the statute books may remain
                    obscure, the implementation or enforcement of the resulting legislative
                    provision – s 11 of the UK 1885 Act – did not. Oscar Wilde was
                    one of those prosecuted, convicted and sentenced to two years’
                    imprisonment with hard labour under that provision in 1895. In convicting him
                    and imposing the maximum sentence on him, the trial judge, Wills J, said
                    that the maximum sentence allowed was “totally inadequate for a case such
                    as this”, and that the case was “the worst case I have ever
                    tried”: see F B Smith at
                    p 171; see also “Sentencing Statement of Justice Wills”
                    <http://law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/wilde/sentence.html>
                    (accessed 29 March 2013). What we do know of Victorian society at the time
                    of Oscar Wilde’s trial is that society felt it a great depravity and
                    immorality to have men like Oscar Wilde in society seducing young boys and men
                    into leading their way of life, and felt that this kind of conduct deserved the
                    clearest condemnation. Smith (in F B Smith at p 165) writes that “within
                    the decade there developed in the British public a rabid
                        detestation of male homosexuality” [emphasis
                    added].
65     What can be gleaned today, almost 130 years
                    later, is that Mr Labouchere wanted to introduce legislation to protect
                    persons above the age of 13 (as the existing law already protected those below
                    13) from assaults of the kind dealt with by the Labouchere Amendment, even
                    though this proposed amendment did not quite fall within the main purposes of
                    the 1885 Bill. Although the reason given by Mr Labouchere appeared
                    gender-neutral, the provision that was passed clearly targeted homosexual males
                    and applied to acts of “gross indecency” between males, whether in
                    public or in private and whether or not there was consent. It must also be
                    remembered in context that in the UK, it was only in 1861 (via s 61 of the
                    Offences Against the Person Act 1861 (c 100) (UK) (“the UK 1861
                    Act”)) that the death penalty for the offence of buggery was replaced
                    with life imprisonment. Further, it may well be that the phrase used by
                    Mr Labouchere –
                    viz, “assault[s] of the kind dealt
                    with” – referred to sexual acts committed by male
                    homosexuals.
(B)   The Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance 1938 (No 12 of
                1938)
66     Whilst s 11 of the UK 1885 Act was not
                    imported into the Indian Penal Code 1860 (Act No 45 of 1860) (“the
                    IPC”), from which our Penal Code is derived, it found its way into many
                    of the former British colonies, including Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia,
                    Gibraltar and Australia (see also the equivalent provisions in Kenya, Malawi,
                    Zambia, Jamaica, Kiribati, Nauru and Tuvalu), where some of the corresponding
                    provisions survive to this day. In Singapore, s 11 of the UK 1885 Act was
                    introduced into the Penal Code (Cap 20, 1936 Rev Ed) (“the 1936
                    Penal Code”) by the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance 1938 (No 12 of
                    1938) (“the Howell Amendment”). As set out in Tan Eng Hong at [27], the then Attorney-General,
                    Mr C G Howell (“AG Howell”), made the
                    following statements in the Legislative Council on the introduction of the
                    Howell Amendment (see Proceedings of the Legislative Council
                        of the Straits Settlements (13 June 1938) at
                    p B49):
With regard to clause 4 it is unfortunately the
                            case that acts of the nature described have been brought to
                            notice. As the law now stands, such acts can only be dealt
                        with, if at all, under the Minor Offences Ordinance, and then only if committed in public. Punishment under the
                        Ordinance is inadequate and the chances of detection are
                            small. It is desired, therefore, to strengthen the law and to
                        bring it into line with the English Criminal Law, from which this clause is
                        taken, and the law of various other parts of the Colonial Empire of which it
                        is only necessary to mention Hong Kong and Gibraltar where conditions are
                        somewhat similar to our own. [emphasis added]
67     From this short address, it can be seen that
                    the reasons given for the introduction of the Howell Amendment were as
                    follows:
(a)     it was “unfortunately the
                        case” –
                        ie, it was a regrettable state of affairs or a
                        misfortune or an undesirable thing or state of affairs – that males
                        were engaged in grossly indecent acts with other males;
(b)     such acts had been brought to
                        notice;
(c)     at that
                        time, such acts could be dealt with by the law only if they were committed
                        in public;
(d)     the
                        chances of detecting such acts were small; and
(e)     it was desirable to strengthen Singapore’s
                        criminal law and bring it in line with English criminal law as well as the
                        criminal law of other British colonies.
The purpose of
                    s 377A’s enactment was therefore clear. The act of males engaging in
                    grossly indecent acts with other males was to be criminalised. The prevalence of
                    such acts was a regrettable state of affairs and was not desirable. It was
                    necessary to strengthen the criminal law and enable it to prosecute males
                    engaging in such grossly indecent acts even if the acts were committed in
                    private. This was because the then prevailing law made it difficult to detect
                    and prosecute such acts.
68     In today’s context, three things are
                    notable about the Howell Amendment:
(a)     The proposed new section would only
                        apply to grossly indecent acts between males. Females were not included or
                        targeted.
(b)     At
                        the time when the Howell Amendment was enacted by the Legislative Council in
                        1938, Singapore had no Constitution as such nor any provisions relating to
                        fundamental liberties. (In 1938, the Governor of the Straits Settlements
                        (“the Governor”), Sir Shenton Thomas, ruled the Colony of
                        Singapore as part of the Straits Settlements under Letters Patent with the
                        assistance of the Executive Council and the Legislative Council. The
                        Legislative Council was, in a sense, entrusted with the law-making powers of
                        the Straits Settlements. It was composed of members of the Executive
                        Council, the Chief Justice and representatives appointed by the Governor,
                        with the Governor having the power of assent and the right of veto in
                        respect of all proposed legislation: see Essays in
                            Singapore Legal History (Kevin Y L Tan gen ed)
                        (Marshall Cavendish Academic, Singapore Academy of Law, 2005) at
                        pp 37–40.)
(c)     The proposed new section would apply even to grossly indecent acts
                        between males done in private.
69     As I mentioned earlier, the original purpose
                    of s 11 of the UK 1885 Act, from which our s 377A is derived, was
                    admittedly a little hazy and appears to have changed from its original intention
                    to become a more wide-reaching provision. However, by 1938, when s 11 of
                    the UK 1885 Act was adopted locally as s 377A of the 1936 Penal Code, the
                    purpose of the provision, although laconically expressed, was quite clear. Acts
                    of “gross indecency” between males, whether in private or in
                    public and whether or not there was consent, constituted criminal behaviour, and
                    it was a criminal offence to indulge in such acts.
70     In my judgment, the purpose or object of
                    s 377A is that articulated by AG Howell in 1938 when he spoke in the
                    Legislative Council and introduced the provision which later became s 377A
                    (see [66]–[67] above). In ascertaining the purpose or object of a
                    statutory provision, if such purpose or object is not already clear from the
                    provision itself (which is not the case here), then in accordance with s 9A
                    of the Interpretation Act (Cap 1, 2002 Rev Ed) (“the
                    Interpretation Act”), we may look to any explanatory statement in the
                    Bill introducing the provision or to the speech made in Parliament at the second
                    reading of that Bill. These must be the primary guideposts. The purpose of an
                    earlier precursor of the statutory provision, especially if that precursor is a
                    statute or subsidiary legislation from another jurisdiction, is but a secondary
                    guidepost at best, referable for context or for elucidation when the primary
                    guideposts are silent or unclear. Such secondary guideposts must be used with
                    extreme caution. For instance, the Labouchere Amendment was introduced in the UK
                    in 1885 and more than 50 years passed before s 377A was introduced into the
                    1936 Penal Code in Singapore. English society and norms in 1885 must have been
                    vastly different from those prevailing in Singapore in 1938. Furthermore, our
                    Penal Code originates from India, and not England. In this regard,
                    Karthigesu JA’s warning in Taw Cheng Kong
                        (HC) –
                    viz, that statutory provisions which are inserted
                    later in time should not necessarily be governed by or interpreted based on
                    earlier material – is all the more apposite. Statutory provisions are
                    sometimes adopted with modifications or undergo amendments before they are
                    passed into law. Bills, drafts, precursors and Parliamentary speeches should not
                    be resorted to uncritically. Looking to another jurisdiction with similar
                    statutory provisions, which may be helpful in some cases, should also be done
                    bearing in mind factors like possible differences in the purpose of the
                    corresponding foreign statutory provisions, possible differences between the
                    legislative history of that foreign jurisdiction and the legislative history of
                    Singapore, the context of the legal system or statute within which the
                    corresponding foreign statutory provisions are contained, as well as possible
                    differences in that foreign jurisdiction’s society and its individual or
                    special needs. In this case, given AG Howell’s articulation in 1938
                    of the purpose of the Howell Amendment, I do not think the ascertainment of the
                    purpose of s 377A would be helped very much by looking at English sources;
                    these sources can only be contextual background at best.
71     When Singapore formed part of Malaysia in
                    1963, the Federal Constitution of Malaysia which contained Art 8 became
                    applicable. When Singapore became an independent and sovereign nation on
                    9 August 1965, it adopted the Constitution, which contained Art 12
                    within Part IV (headed “Fundamental Liberties”). Does the
                    fact that Singapore did not have a Constitution in 1938 in some way affect
                    s 377A’s validity once the Constitution came into being in August
                    1965? The short answer is no. As noted by the Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng Kong (CA), equality before the law and equal
                    protection of the law became part of the wider doctrine of the rule of law and
                    were already an important part of the law of England when English law was
                    imported into Singapore by the Second Charter of Justice in 1826. Equality
                    before the law and equal protection of the law were therefore already part of
                    the law of our land when s 377A was introduced in 1938. That said, no
                    challenge as to s 377A’s validity has been made until these cases were
                    brought.
(C)   The October 2007 Parliamentary Debates
72     The next significant event, as far as the
                    purpose or object of s 377A is concerned, occurred in October 2007 when
                    Parliament considered major revisions to the 1985 Penal Code through the Penal
                    Code (Amendment) Bill 2007 (Bill 38 of 2007) (“the 2007
                    Bill”). The then Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs, Assoc
                    Prof Ho Peng Kee (“Assoc Prof Ho”), made the following
                    introduction at the 2007 Bill’s second reading (see Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official
                        Report (22 October 2007) vol 83
                    at cols 2175–2176):
Sir, the Penal Code [ie, the 1985 Penal
                        Code] is the primary criminal statute in Singapore with more than 500
                        provisions. It is a key part of the corpus of Singapore’s laws which
                        have served us well in keeping our law and order situation under control all
                        these years. As a major criminal statute, its provisions reflect our
                        society’s norms and values. This review is the most comprehensive
                        undertaken since 1984, when we amended the Penal Code [(Cap 103,
                        1970 Rev Ed)] to introduce mandatory minimum punishment for several
                        serious offences. Now, we are amending the Code so that it remains effective
                        in a dynamic and changing environment that remains challenging.
Assoc Prof Ho told Parliament that this comprehensive review of
                    the 1985 Penal Code was a process which had stretched over two to three years.
                    The Government had worked closely with the Attorney-General’s Chambers,
                    the Ministry of Law and other Government agencies, and had taken into account
                    legislative changes in other jurisdictions as well as comments made by judges in
                    their judgments. The amendments before Parliament had also been refined through
                    a robust process of public consultation, with input from members of the public,
                    professional organisations, stakeholders of the criminal justice system, the Law
                    Society of Singapore, the Subordinate Courts and the Singapore Academy of Law;
                    there had also been multiple points of engagements with people from different
                    walks of life.
73     Pursuant to this comprehensive review of the
                    1985 Penal Code, s 377 was repealed, but s 377A was retained. Both the
                    Plaintiffs and the Defendant have relied on the various speeches made on 22 and
                    23 October 2007 during the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates in their
                    respective submissions.
74     This reliance on the October 2007
                    Parliamentary Debates raises two questions which I put to the parties:
(a)     What is the position where, after a
                        statutory provision is enacted, there are subsequent Parliamentary debates
                        on the same provision? Can these be looked at to re-examine the purpose of
                        the provision, and if so, what is the effect if the re-examination reveals
                        further or new reasons for or expands upon the original purpose of the
                        provision?
(b)     What
                        happens if the original purpose of the statutory provision is no longer
                        applicable or acceptable, but there is a new purpose which that statutory
                        provision can still fulfil? Can that new purpose be substituted for the
                        original purpose in ascertaining the constitutionality or otherwise of the
                        statutory provision?
75     In answering the first of the two questions
                    above, it is important to remember four facts:
(a)     First, the October 2007
                        Parliamentary Debates were not debates on the enactment or introduction of
                        s 377A. At the time of those Parliamentary debates, s 377A was an
                        existing provision and no amendments thereto were being
                    proposed.
(b)     Secondly,
                        a comprehensive review of the 1985 Penal Code had been undertaken and it had
                        been decided, after due deliberation and consultations, to repeal s 377
                        but not s 377A.
(c)     Thirdly, s 377A became an issue during the October 2007
                        Parliamentary Debates because a NMP, Mr Siew Kum Hong, submitted a
                        petition dated 6 October 2007 signed by 2,341 citizens calling for the
                        repeal of s 377A (“the Petition”). (It should be noted
                        that under the Constitution, NMPs have limited voting rights in
                        Parliament.)
(d)     Fourthly, no vote was taken on the Petition or on whether to repeal
                        s 377A, albeit it was clear that the majority of the Members of
                        Parliament were in favour of retaining s 377A.
76     The Petition called for s 377A to be
                    repealed along with s 377. It recited, inter
                        alia, that:
(a)     With the repeal of s 377, anal
                        and oral sex between heterosexual couples would no longer be an offence. In
                        comparison, the continued existence of s 377A would prejudice the
                        rights and interests of homosexual and bisexual men in an unconstitutional
                        manner.
(b)     Section 377A was discriminatory because the same act of “gross
                        indecency” between heterosexual couples was permitted, but it was
                        criminalised if performed between homosexual and bisexual
                    men.
(c)     Such
                        discrimination infringed Art 12(1).
(d)     Even if it was accepted that Singapore was a
                        conservative society where the majority had a negative attitude towards
                        homosexuality, this discrimination against homosexual and bisexual men
                        represented the tyranny of the majority, and this was exactly what
                        Art 12(1) was intended to protect the minority
                    against.
(e)     The stated
                        rationale of s 377A failed the “rational relation” test
                        for determining the constitutionality of a deviation from
                        Art 12(1).
(f)     According to the public consultation paper and the proposed amendments
                        issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, our Penal Code (ie, the 1985 Penal Code, at the time of the October 2007
                        Parliamentary Debates) was intended to maintain a safe and secure society.
                        The amendments were meant to bring the 1985 Penal Code up to date, and
                        decriminalising private sexual conduct between consenting adults would not
                        make Singapore unsafe or less secure.
(g)     Furthermore, reflecting the public’s conservative
                        attitude towards sex was not one of the stated aims of our Penal Code or
                        even the 2007 Bill. Yet, the stated objective of s 377A was to reflect
                        public morality; s 377A was therefore not rational when assessed
                        against the legitimate aims of our Penal Code.
(h)     No harm was done to society when consenting
                        heterosexual adults had sex in private. Why should it be any different when
                        it came to sex between two men in private? The correct basis for determining
                        the criminality or otherwise of sexual acts between adults should be
                        consent.
(i)     Section 377A represented an unconstitutional derogation from the
                        guarantee of equality and equal protection encapsulated in
                        Art 12(1).
(j)     It was undisputed that society found extra-marital affairs immoral. Yet,
                        our Penal Code did not criminalise such activities.
(k)     Throughout history, public morality as
                        a justification for discriminatory action had never stood up over time. It
                        had been used in the past by other countries to enforce slavery,
                        discrimination against racial and religious minorities and discrimination
                        against women, and none of these forms of institutional discrimination
                        remained today.
(l)     Article 12(1) states the principle simply but elegantly: all persons
                        are equal before the law and are entitled to the equal protection of the
                        law.
The Petition ended by respectfully requesting
                    Parliament to uphold the fundamental principle set out in Art 12(1), and
                    extend equal protection to all Singaporeans in respect of their private
                    consensual conduct, regardless of their sexual orientation.
77     In my judgment, if the purpose of a provision
                    was articulated in Parliament when it was first introduced, and at some later
                    date, a comprehensive review of the Act containing that provision was carried
                    out and it was decided that the provision should be retained, then absent any
                    unusual facts or circumstances, the purpose of the provision as articulated in
                    Parliament when the provision was first introduced will still be the purpose for
                    which that provision was enacted.
78     Should we look at the October 2007
                    Parliamentary Debates to ascertain the purpose or object of s 377A? I do
                    not think there is a need to do so, but in any event, I found that those debates
                    did not assist the Plaintiffs at all. In this case, the purpose of s 377A
                    was articulated, albeit within the context of a colonial government, when it was
                    enacted by the Legislative Council in 1938. Section 377A was considered
                    again some 69 years later, and it was decided that the provision should be
                    retained even though s 377 was to be repealed. That was the view taken by
                    Parliament in 2007. In effect, the purpose of s 377A, as articulated by
                    AG Howell in 1938, was reaffirmed by Parliament in 2007. That purpose
                    therefore still remains valid today (see [77] above).
79     Be that as it may, as the Plaintiffs have made
                    lengthy submissions, inter alia, to the effect
                    that: (a) the purpose of s 377A is no longer valid; (b) the
                    Government has said that it is not going to pro-actively enforce s 377A;
                    and (c) the purpose of leaving s 377A on the statute books is not to
                    polarise society but to maintain social cohesion, I shall proceed to examine
                    these submissions.
80     During the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates,
                    Assoc Prof Ho told Parliament that s 377 would be repealed as it was
                    intended to remove the use of the archaic term “carnal intercourse
                    against the order of nature”. Consequently, any sexual act, including
                    oral and anal sex, between a consenting heterosexual couple aged 16 and above
                    would no longer be a crime when done in private. Assoc Prof Ho said that
                    our Penal Code reflected social norms and values, and repealing s 377 was
                    the right thing to do as Singaporeans by and large did not find oral and anal
                    sex in private between a consenting male adult and a consenting female adult
                    offensive or unacceptable. This was clear from the public reaction to the
                    decision in Annis bin Abdullah v Public Prosecutor
                    [2004] 2 SLR(R) 93, which reaction was confirmed through public feedback
                    during the review of the 1985 Penal Code and the public consultation which took
                    place pursuant to that review.
81     Assoc Prof Ho then went on to explain
                    that s 377A, which criminalised acts of “gross indecency”
                    between two male adults, would be retained. He said that public feedback on
                    s 377A was emotional, divided and strongly expressed, with the majority
                    calling for s 377A’s retention. Assoc Prof Ho also explained
                    that Singapore was still a conservative society where the majority found
                    homosexual behaviour offensive and unacceptable.
82     Assoc Prof Ho further said that since
                    neither side (ie, respectively, those in favour of
                    retaining s 377A and those in favour of repealing it) was going to be able
                    to persuade or convince the other of its position, we should live and let live,
                    and let the situation evolve in tandem with the values of our society. This
                    approach was a pragmatic one that maintained Singapore’s social cohesion.
                    Assoc Prof Ho also said that the police had not been proactively enforcing
                    s 377A and would continue to take this stance except where minors were
                    exploited or abused or where male adults committed the offence in public places
                    such as public toilets or back-lanes. Assoc Prof Ho said that whilst
                    homosexuals had a place in society and had, in recent years, been given more
                    social space, repealing s 377A would be very contentious and might send the
                    wrong signal that the Government was encouraging and endorsing the homosexual
                    lifestyle as part of our mainstream way of life.
83     Quite a number of MPs and NMPs rose to speak
                    during the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates, at times passionately and
                    vigorously, with well-reasoned points that focused on the many different aspects
                    to the retention or otherwise of s 377A. The debate crossed party lines,
                    with some members of the ruling People’s Action Party advocating
                    s 377A’s repeal, but a larger number supporting its retention. The
                    opposition MP, Mr Chiam See Tong, like some other MPs, did not touch on
                    s 377A, while Non-Constituency MP Ms Sylvia Lim, Chairman of the
                    Workers’ Party, told Parliament quite candidly that the Workers’
                    Party’s leadership had extensively discussed the issue and, having been
                    unable to arrive at a consensus that s 377A should be repealed, were
                    accordingly not calling for its abolition. There were certainly polarised views.
                    Quite a few MPs recounted anecdotal incidents of parents’ non-acceptance
                    of homosexual behaviour by their children. These parents’ reactions were
                    not very different from the initial reaction of Mr Lim’s mother set
                    out above at [3].
84     Counsel for the Plaintiffs, Mr Low,
                    pointed to the later portions of the speech by Prime Minister Lee Hsien
                    Loong (“the Prime Minister”) during the October 2007 Parliamentary
                    Debates and submitted that in view of the reasons put forward for the retention
                    of s 377A, the purpose of the provision was now this: since neither the
                    pro-s 377A side nor the anti-s 377A side would be able to convince the
                    other of its point of view, and since pushing the issue would polarise and
                    divide our society, we should live and let live, and it was best that we do
                    nothing and leave s 377A as it stood. That, Mr Low submitted, could
                    not be a legitimate purpose for legislation. With respect, I cannot disagree
                    more. First and foremost, the purpose submitted by Mr Low was not, on any reading of the official record of the
                    October 2007 Parliamentary Debates, put forward as the purpose of s 377A. Instead, it was a practical reason why,
                    amongst other more basic reasons, s 377A should be retained. Secondly,
                    Mr Low’s submission was derived by taking a small part of three or
                    four paragraphs of the official record of the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates
                    out of context in an attempt to frame a purpose. It is quite clear from the
                    Prime Minister’s speech, as well as from the speeches of other MPs who
                    spoke in favour of s 377A’s retention, that they viewed s 377A
                    and its continued retention as follows:
(a)     Whether s 377A should be
                        retained or repealed was a question of morality and concerned the moral
                        values of Singapore society. Singapore was a conservative society where the
                        majority did not accept homosexual behaviour and wanted s 377A to be
                        retained (as an example, the Prime Minister pointed out that as against the
                        2,341 signatures on the Petition, there were, at the time of his speech in
                        Parliament, 15,560 signatures on a counter-petition to retain
                        s 377A).
(b)     The family was still the basic building block of Singapore society, and a
                        “family” meant one man marrying one woman, having children and
                        bringing up their children within the framework of a stable family unit.
                        That was the policy of the Government, and the Government, after extensive
                        feedback and long discussion, wanted to maintain that status
                    quo.
(c)     The aforesaid
                        concept of a “family” was what was taught in schools. The vast
                        majority of Singaporeans wanted to keep it that way, and so did the
                        Government.
Parliament also accepted that: (a) male
                    homosexuals had already been given more social space and were part of our
                    society; and (b) the policy of not enforcing s 377A actively, save
                    where minors were exploited or abused or where grossly indecent acts were
                    committed by male adults in public, would be continued. The majority of the MPs
                    were of the view that whilst retaining s 377A might be legally untidy,
                    repealing it would result in the loss of a moral signpost and would not reflect
                    the views of a vast majority of society who were not ready to accept
                    homosexuality as part of our mainstream way of life. The majority were against
                    putting homosexual couples on par with normal heterosexual couples who conceived
                    children and formed the basic building blocks of families in our
                society.
85     It is clear from the speeches made during the
                    October 2007 Parliamentary Debates that the purpose of s 377A has not changed from the purpose
                    articulated by AG Howell in 1938. After extensive consultations at all
                    levels, the Government decided to repeal s 377 but retain s 377A.
                    Because of the Petition presented to Parliament, which called for the repeal of
                    s 377A, the debate over the abolition or retention of this provision took
                    place and in fact overshadowed the rest of the proposed amendments to the 1985
                    Penal Code. The reason for s 377A’s retention, which affirmed the
                    purpose of the provision as articulated by AG Howell in 1938, was that
                    Singapore was a conservative society where the majority did not accept
                    homosexuality. One MP said that based on his constituents’ feedback, the
                    majority found homosexual behaviour offensive and repugnant. One of the last few
                    MPs to speak, Dr Muhammad Faishal Ibrahim, said (see Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official
                        Report (22 October 2007) vol 83 at
                    cols 2469–2472): “The message that I heard loud and clear is
                    that the majority of Singaporeans are not ready for open homosexuality acts to
                    be part of our way of life yet.”
86     The Plaintiffs contended that as one of the
                    purposes of s 377A was to preserve the “family” (as described
                    at [84(b)] above) as the basic building block of our society, s 377A was
                    discriminatory as the behaviour of lesbians and those who had extra-marital sex
                    would also undermine this “purpose”, but such groups were not
                    targeted as criminals. In my view, this contention is incorrect. [84(b)] above
                    does not set out the purpose of s 377A.
                    Instead, it states a value shared by Singapore society, and s 377A by
                    itself does not bring about this value or ensure its continuity. It is clear
                    that this shared value stems not from our penal law, but from societal mores and
                    norms which have been built up over time and which are supported by the
                    Government’s policy to promote the same.
87     The second query which I raised at [74(b)]
                    above, arose during the course of the oral submissions before me – what if
                    the original purpose of a statutory provision is no longer applicable or
                    acceptable, but there is a new purpose that the provision can now fulfil? For
                    example, if medical science can prove today that sexual orientation is entirely
                    inborn –
                    ie, determined entirely by nature – and is
                    not influenced at all by parental/societal nurturing or lifestyle choices, then
                    the targeting of male homosexuals by s 377A may no longer justifiable. But,
                    if medical science today can show that indulging in male homosexual conduct is a
                    major factor for the spread of HIV/AIDS, can the new purpose of curbing the
                    spread of HIV/AIDS be substituted for the original purpose of s 377A?
                    HIV/AIDS was certainly not around in 1938, and society then saw male
                    homosexuality as a lifestyle choice or a matter of personal conduct. 75 years
                    later, can the aforesaid new purpose of s 377A still sustain the provision
                    if the premise of its original purpose is no longer valid? It is interesting to
                    note that both Mr Abdullah SC and Mr Low accepted that we can
                    substitute this new purpose as a valid purpose of s 377A. Intriguing as
                    this issue is, it does not, however, arise on the facts of this case. I shall
                    therefore leave it for another occasion if and when it does become an issue for
                    decision.
(3)   Does the differentia underlying the classification
                prescribed by s 377A bear a rational relation to the purpose of the
                provision?
(A)   The meaning of “rational relation”
88     Having stated the purpose of s 377A (see
                    [67] above), I now turn to the next element of the Second Limb, viz, whether the differentia underlying the
                    classification prescribed by s 377A has a rational relation to the purpose
                    of this provision (see [49] above).
89     What is meant by the term
                    “rational”? It seems clear to me that it must mean something that
                    is based on, endowed with or governed by reason. It must be, at the minimum,
                    reasonable in the sense that it is capable of being supported or justified by
                    reason and is in conformity with what is fairly to be expected or called for.
                    That rationality is tied to reasonableness in this sense can be seen from the
                    judgment of Mukherjea J in the Indian Supreme Court’s decision in
                        Chiranjit Lal at 911–912:
… The legislature undoubtedly has a wide field of choice in
                        determining and classifying the subject of its laws, and if the law deals
                        alike with all of a certain class, it is normally not obnoxious to the
                        charge of denial of equal protection; but the
                            classification should never be arbitrary. It must always rest upon some
                            real and substantial distinction bearing a reasonable and just relation
                            to the things in respect to which the classification is made; and
                            classification made without any substantial basis should be regarded as
                            invalid. … [original citation omitted; emphasis added
                        in italics]
90     Mukherjea J makes a number of
                    propositions. The first is a general one that classifications prescribed by law
                    should not be arbitrary. The second elaborates on how this is ensured.
                    Classifications prescribed by law must be founded on a substantial or
                    discernible basis, such that it will be known who falls within or without the
                    ambit of the law. This is the “intelligible differentia”
                    requirement. Mukherjea J’s third proposition is that the differentia
                    underlying a classification must bear a “reasonable and just
                    relation” to the reason why the classification was prescribed in the
                    first place. This is essentially an elaboration of the “rational
                    relation” test. The final point is that where the classification
                    prescribed by a law does not satisfy the two aforesaid requirements, it should
                    be regarded as invalid.
91     Therefore, the meaning of “rational
                    relation” is a relation that is also reasonable and just. Indeed, this
                    seems to be the standard adopted by the Singapore courts in applying the
                    “rational relation” test to legislation which is said to violate
                    Art 12. In Ong Ah Chuan, the Privy Council,
                    in deciding that the mandatory death penalty for trafficking in heroin exceeding
                    15g was not contrary to Art 12, found (at [38]) that:
There is nothing unreasonable in the
                        Legislature’s holding the view that an illicit dealer on the wholesale
                        scale who operates near the apex of the distributive pyramid requires a
                        stronger deterrent to his transactions and deserves more condign punishment
                        than do dealers on a smaller scale who operate nearer the base of the
                        pyramid. [emphasis added]
92     This concept of reasonableness was also relied
                    upon by the High Court in Taw Cheng Kong (HC).
                    Karthigesu JA canvassed an “ordinary and reasonable man”
                    test, and applied the test in arriving at the following conclusion (at
                    [70]):
Pressed, therefore, to conclude whether or not there is a sufficiently
                        strong nexus between the objective of s 37 [of the PCA] and the basis
                        for classification, I think the ordinary and reasonable
                            man would answer the question in the negative: the basis of
                        classification is an inadequate means of achieving the objective. I cannot
                        state in more certain terms that the objective of the section is noble, and
                        I agree wholeheartedly with the Public Prosecutor’s observation that
                        without an extraterritorial dimension, the whole objective of the [PCA] is
                        too easily defeated. However, my conclusion is that this noble objective was
                        aspired to by unconstitutional means. [emphasis added]
93     The concept of reasonableness is, therefore,
                    central to the inquiry into whether the “rational relation” test
                    is satisfied in any particular case. In addition, some principles have emerged
                    from previous case law which set out helpful pointers for the courts in deciding
                    whether the differentia underlying the classification prescribed by a piece of
                    legislation bears a reasonable and just relation to the purpose of that
                    legislation. I shall elaborate on two of these principles at [94]–[99]
                    below.
(I)   The differentia underlying the prescribed classification
                must be broadly proportionate to the purpose of the law which prescribes that
                classification
94     An important part of the “rational
                    relation” requirement is that the differentia underlying the
                    classification prescribed by a law must be broadly proportionate to the purpose
                    of that law. In Yong Vui Kong, where the
                    constitutional challenge was to the allegedly arbitrary divide of 15g of heroin,
                    above which an accused faced the death penalty but below which he did not, the
                    Court of Appeal approved the passages in Ong Ah
                        Chuan cited above at [59], and further added (at [112] of
                        Yong Vui Kong):
We would also add that the quantity of addictive drugs trafficked is not
                        only broadly proportionate to the quantity of
                        addictive drugs brought onto the illicit market, but also broadly proportionate to the scale of operations of the drug
                        dealer and, hence, broadly proportionate to
                        the harm likely to be posed to society by the offender’s crime. For
                        these reasons, we find that the 15g differentia bears a rational relation to
                        the social object of the [Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2001 Rev
                        Ed)]. [emphasis added]
The Court of Appeal was effectively ensuring that the relation between
                    the differentia based on 15g of heroin and the object of the Misuse of Drugs Act
                    (Cap 185, 2001 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”) (which, inter alia, made the death penalty mandatory for drug
                    traffickers convicted of trafficking in more than 15g of heroin) was a
                    reasonable and just one by testing the efficacy of that differentia in achieving
                    the purpose of the MDA.
95     It is clear that in using the term
                    “broadly proportionate”, the Court of Appeal in Yong Vui Kong did not mean that the prescribed differentia had
                    to be the most effective means of achieving the object of the MDA. The Court of
                    Appeal was merely ensuring that the differentia underlying the classification
                    prescribed by the MDA was not one which was so far removed from the object of
                    the MDA that it would result in an unreasonable and unjust relation between the
                    two. So long as the differentia underlying the classification prescribed by a
                    piece of legislation is broadly effective to achieve the object of that
                    legislation, it is not the court’s function to displace Parliament’s
                    decision in prescribing that classification. Furthermore, what is the most effective differentia to use as the basis of a
                    classification prescribed by law is something which “reasonable people
                    may well disagree [on]”, and this is a matter which “lies within
                    the province of the Legislature, not the Judiciary” (see Yong Vui Kong at [113]):
Our finding that there is a rational relation between the 15g differentia
                        and the social object of the MDA should not, however, be taken to mean that
                        this differentia is the best and that there is no other better differentia
                        which would further the social object of the MDA. In this regard, we
                        appreciate the points made in Mr Ravi’s second, third and fourth
                        arguments at [104]–[106] above, all of which suggest possible reasons
                        for expanding the differentia to take into account something more than just
                        the quantity of controlled drugs trafficked. We should
                            also point out that although a differentia which takes into account
                            something more than merely the quantity of controlled drugs trafficked
                            may be a better differentia than the 15g differentia, what is a better
                            differentia is a matter on which reasonable people may well disagree.
                            This question is, in truth, a question of social policy, and, as the
                            Privy Council stated in Ong Ah Chuan at
                            673 (quoted at [101] above), it lies within the province of the
                            Legislature, not the Judiciary. Our judiciary has to respect
                        the constitutional role of our legislature as delineated in the Singapore
                        Constitution (under Art 38), and this is why our courts will only act
                        to ensure that the differentia employed in the MDA for determining when the
                        [mandatory death penalty] is to be imposed bears a rational relation to the
                        social object of that statute. As mentioned in the preceding paragraph, we
                        find that the 15g differentia does satisfy this test. [emphasis
                        added]
The court’s role and function is not to second-guess whether
                    Parliament could have or ought to have devised a more
                        efficacious differentia. Instead, the court can intervene only if
                    the differentia enacted by Parliament is so clearly inefficacious that it would
                    not even be capable of being considered broadly
                        proportionate to the object of the legislation in
                    question.
(II)   Under-inclusiveness and over-inclusiveness
96     Another facet of the “rational
                    relation” requirement is that the prescribed classification has to
                    broadly fit the object of the law prescribing that
                    classification in terms of the scope of its application. “Fit” is
                    another way of capturing the concepts of under- and over-inclusiveness, which
                    were first judicially examined and recognised in Singapore in Taw Cheng Kong (HC) and Taw Cheng Kong
                        (CA). In Taw Cheng Kong (HC),
                    Karthigesu JA held (at [64]) that:
... Parliament’s classification of persons on the basis of
                        citizenship is both over-inclusive and under-inclusive, that is, the net cast by the Legislature catches a class of persons not
                            contemplated as falling within the objectives of the Act
                            [viz, the PCA], and
                            also does not catch a class of persons who clearly do fall within the
                            mischief sought to be addressed. For example, a Singapore
                        citizen now a foreign permanent resident, employed in the foreign country by
                        the foreign government, receiving a bribe paid in the foreign country in a
                        foreign currency by a foreign payor is guilty of an offence under the Act.
                        At the same time, a Singapore permanent resident or a foreigner working for
                        the Singapore government who agrees to take a short trip outside Singapore
                        to receive a bribe in Singapore dollars in relation to an act he will then
                        do in Singapore is not caught by the Act. This is so even though the threat
                        posed in the latter case is so much more obvious and direct than in the
                        former example. Lying between the two extremes are many shades of grey. What
                        is clear is that in such cases, citizenship is not a useful criteria for
                        determining guilt. [emphasis added]
97     Where the differentia underlying the
                    classification prescribed by a piece of legislation results in that
                    classification applying either too broadly or too narrowly, it should follow
                    that the strength of the relation between the differentia and the objective of
                    that legislation may not be sufficiently strong to justify making that
                    classification. In other words, the “reasonableness of the classification
                    is insufficient”: see Taw Cheng Kong (HC)
                    at [65].
98     That said, a complete coincidence between the
                    classification prescribed by a piece of legislation and the class defined by the
                    object of that legislation is not necessary in order for the relation between
                    the differentia underlying the classification and the object of the legislation
                    to be a reasonable one. This is eloquently elaborated upon by Huang-Thio at p 431:
[I]n determining whether the inequality produced in a classification is
                        trivial or not, the court has to embark on an investigation into the
                            degree of inequality involved. Indeed,
                        this is precisely what the courts do all the time when faced with equal
                        protection problems. The reason is that the doctrine of
                            reasonable classification does not demand a perfect classification,
                            i.e., a complete coincidence of the class defined by the law and the
                            class defined by the purpose of the law. Under this doctrine,
                        the courts may sustain or reject an imperfect classification, depending on
                        the degree of inequality involved. The measure of
                            reasonableness of a classification depends on the degree of its success
                            in treating similarly those similarly placed, and the closer the
                            correspondence between the legislative classification and that implied
                            by the purpose of the law, the easier it is to sustain the
                            classification as reasonable. [emphasis added]
Prof Tan further opines in Tan Yock
                        Lin (at p 17) that US case law shows that:
… [T]ypical responses to the compositional constraint have been to
                        support underinclusive classifications in terms of legislative leeway and
                        overinclusive criteria in terms of urgency or emergency.
99     With regards to over-inclusiveness, there have
                    been US and Indian cases, where the courts have held that an over-inclusive
                    classification might nevertheless satisfy the “rational relation”
                    test. These cases usually involve situations of emergency or relate to policies
                    which entail positive discrimination: see Hirabayashi v
                        United States 320 US 81 (1943), Korematsu
                        v US 323 US 214 (1944) (“Korematsu”), Ramakrishnan Singh v
                        State of Mysore AIR 1960 Mys 338 and Kesava Iyegar v State of Mysore AIR 1956 Mys 20. In
                    the Singapore context, the High Court in Taw Cheng Kong
                        (HC), as stated above at [55(d)], held that the classification
                    prescribed by s 37(1) of the PCA was both under- and over-inclusive, and
                    therefore failed the “rational relation” test. Although this
                    conclusion was rejected by the Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng
                        Kong (CA), the principle that over-inclusiveness could possibly
                    result in the “rational relation” test not being satisfied was not
                    rejected. It was merely that the Court of Appeal found over-inclusiveness not to
                    have arisen on the facts.
(B)   The object of s 377A bears a rational relation to the
                differentia underlying the classification prescribed
100    As established above at [67], the purpose of
                    s 377A is to criminalise male homosexual conduct because such conduct is
                    not acceptable or desirable in Singapore society. The differentia underlying the
                    classification prescribed by s 377A, as established at [48] above, is that
                    of male homosexual conduct. Therefore, s 377A is a law where there is a
                    complete coincidence between the differentia underlying the classification
                    prescribed by the legislation and the class defined by the object of that
                    legislation. Given that the differentia adopted in s 377A results in a
                    classification which mirrors the purpose of s 377A, the differentia would be, at
                    the very least, broadly proportionate to the purpose of s 377A in terms of
                    efficacy; it also cannot be under-inclusive or over-inclusive vis-à-vis that purpose. In these circumstances, the relationship
                    between the differentia underlying the classification prescribed by s 377A
                    and the object of s 377A (or the mischief which it is designed to deter)
                    clearly satisfies the “rational relation” test.
101    Mr Low contends that since it was said
                    during the October 2007 Parliamentary Debates that s 377A would not be
                    actively enforced (save in the two instances mentioned at [82] above),
                    s 377A does not serve the function of signalling that male homosexual
                    conduct is undesirable and should not be practised openly. In my view, this
                    argument is without merit for two reasons. First, it is questionable whether, in
                    order for a criminal provision to fulfil its function of signalling that certain
                    conduct is undesirable and should not be practised openly, that criminal
                    provision must be enforced. Of course, the
                    effectiveness of a criminal provision in fulfilling such a purpose would be
                    greater where enforcement is robust, but not all criminal provisions operate in
                    a similar manner. In the case of s 377A, the Legislature has decided that
                    pursuing the policy of retaining s 377A while not advocating enforcement of
                    s 377A is adequate to fulfil the purpose of s 377A. This judgment made
                    by Parliament should be respected. Whether it is constitutional for the Public
                    Prosecutor to prosecute some but not others for an offence is a separate
                    question which I shall deal with later (see [135] below). The second reason why
                    I find Mr Low’s aforesaid argument unmeritorious lies in the
                    presumption of constitutionality, which I shall elaborate on shortly. For now,
                    the short answer to Mr Low’s argument is that the express retention
                    of s 377A as a criminal offence is a clear indication by Parliament that
                    acts of “gross indecency” between males is not desired in
                    Singapore, and this indication is sufficiently put across regardless of whether
                    or not Parliament advocates a policy of active enforcement of s 377A. If
                    the Plaintiffs seek to show that this is not the case (ie, that s 377A cannot serve its function of signalling
                    disapprobation of male homosexual conduct if it is not actively enforced),
                    compelling or cogent material or factual evidence has to be adduced. Such
                    evidence has not been put forward.
The presumption of constitutionality
102    I turn now to the presumption of
                    constitutionality. I agree with Mr Abdullah SC’s submission that
                    the court must always be mindful of this presumption when applying the
                    “reasonable classification” test.
103    The Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng Kong (CA) laid down the approach to be adopted in
                    cases where legislation is impugned as being unconstitutional. The starting
                    point is a strong presumption of constitutional validity. The basis for the
                    presumption of constitutionality, as stated by the US Supreme Court in Middleton v Texas Power and Light Company 249 US
                    152 (1919) at 157 and cited with approval by the Indian Supreme Court in
                        Chiranjit Lal at 913, is this:
It must be presumed that a Legislature understands and correctly
                        appreciates the needs of its own people, that its laws are directed to
                        problems made manifest by experience and that its discriminations are based
                        upon adequate grounds.
This proposition is further supported by the following passage from
                    the judgment of Mohamed Azmi SCJ in Malaysian
                        Bar at 170, which was cited with approval by the Court of Appeal
                    in Taw Cheng Kong (CA) (at [58]):
In considering Art 8 [of the Malaysian Constitution] there is a
                        presumption that an impugned law is constitutional, a presumption stemming
                        from the wide power of classification which the legislature must have in
                        making laws operating differently as regards different groups of persons to
                        give effect to its policy.
104    The presumption of constitutionality is
                    given effect practically in a number of ways. The first is that the court
                        prima facie leans in favour of
                    constitutionality and supports the impugned legislation if it is reasonable to
                    do so. The second is that it is for the party who attacks the validity of a
                    piece of legislation to place relevant materials and evidence before the court.
                    These principles were established as far back as 1976 in Su
                        Liang Yu (at 131):
When a law is challenged as offending the guarantee of equality and equal
                        protection of the law, the first duty of the court which is really a rule of
                        common sense is to examine the purpose and policy of the statute and then to
                        see whether a classification has been made and which does not result in a
                        real or actual discrimination. In its approach to the problem the court
                        ought prima facie, to lean
                            in favour of constitutionality and should support the legislation if it
                            is possible to do so on any reasonable
                            ground and it is for the party who
                            attacks the validity of the legislation to
                            place all materials before the court to show either the enactment or the
                            exercise of the power under it is arbitrary and
                            unsupportable. [emphasis added in italics and bold
                        italics]
105    The Court of Appeal in Taw Cheng Kong (CA) reaffirmed (at [80]) that the burden of
                    proof lay with the challenger and, further, elucidated another way in which the
                    presumption of constitutionality had a bearing on a constitutional challenge to
                    a law. The court held (likewise at [80]) that postulating examples of
                    arbitrariness were not helpful in rebutting the presumption of
                    constitutionality:
… [U]nless the law is plainly arbitrary on its face, postulating
                        examples of arbitrariness would ordinarily not be helpful in rebutting the
                        presumption of constitutionality. This is because another court or person
                        can well postulate an equal number if not more examples to show that the law
                        did not operate arbitrarily. If postulating examples of arbitrariness can
                        always by themselves be sufficient for the purposes of rebuttal, then it
                        will hardly be giving effect to the presumption that Parliament knows best
                        for its people, that its laws are directed at problems made manifest by
                        experience, and hence its differentiation is based on adequate
                        grounds.
The Court of Appeal then explained (also at [80]) how the presumption
                    of constitutionality might be rebutted:
… Therefore, to discharge the burden of rebutting the presumption,
                            it will usually be necessary for the person
                            challenging the law to adduce some material or factual evidence to show
                            that it was enacted arbitrarily or had operated arbitrarily.
                        Otherwise, there will be no practical difference between the presumption and
                        the ordinary burden of proof on the person asserting unconstitutionality. In
                        the present case, no such evidence was adduced by the respondent, and the
                        learned judge simply postulated examples of arbitrariness in a vacuum. That,
                        in our view, could not rebut the presumption. [emphasis added]
106    I would say that Yick
                        Wo is a good example of a challenger placing cogent material and
                    factual evidence before the court to show that the impugned executive action was
                    unjustifiably discriminatory and unconstitutional as it infringed the US
                    Fourteenth Amendment. What level and kind of material or factual evidence is
                    required will, of course, depend on the facts and circumstances of each
                    case.
107    Lest I be taken to rule that the party
                    seeking to uphold the constitutionality of an impugned legislative provision
                    need only sit back and see what the challenger puts forward, I would point out
                    what Wee Chong Jin CJ noted at [19] of Lee Keng Guan and
                        others v Public Prosecutor [1977–1978] SLR(R) 78, citing
                    the Indian Supreme Court decision of Ram Krishna
                        Dalmia at 547–548:
… [W]hile good faith and knowledge of the existing conditions on
                        the part of a legislature are to be presumed, if there is nothing on the
                        face of the law or the surrounding circumstances brought to the notice of
                        the court on which the classification may reasonably be regarded as based,
                        the presumption of constitutionality cannot be carried to the extent of
                        always holding that there must be some undisclosed and unknown reasons for
                        subjecting certain individuals or corporation to hostile or discriminating
                        legislation.
108    Finally, it may also be appropriate to
                    borrow a theme from the doctrine of justiciability. Sundaresh Menon JC, as
                    he then was, stated in Lee Hsien Loong v Review Publishing Co
                        Ltd [2007] 2 SLR(R) 453 at [98] that a calibrated approach
                    to judicial review should be adopted whereby the intensity of judicial review in
                    a particular case turned on factual content and common sense “which takes
                    into account the simple fact that there are certain questions in respect of
                    which there can be no expectation that an unelected judiciary will play any
                    role”. Although Menon JC’s remarks were made in the context of
                    judicial review of executive action, the doctrine of justiciability rests on the
                    doctrine of separation of powers, which in turn, has been described as a
                    fundamental doctrine of the Constitution: see Law Society of
                        Singapore v Tan Guat Neo Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239 at
                    [134].
109    Professor Thio Li-ann, further adds that the
                    “[c]ourts will decline review in matters where they lack expertise or
                    special knowledge, or where their institutional capacity makes it ill-suited to
                    address issues like allocative decisions”: see Thio Li-ann, A Treatise on Singapore Constitutional Law (2012 Academy
                    Publishing) at para 03.024. The Court of Appeal appears to have recognised this
                    in Yong Vui Kong at 113 (see [95] above).
                    Professor Thio Li-ann and David Chong Gek Sian SC, in “The Chan
                    Court and Constitutional Adjudication – ‘A Sea Change into Something
                    Rich and Strange?’” in The Law in His
                        Hands (Academy Publishing, 2012) (Chao Hick Tin et al eds) at p 103, para 28, opined that:
Judicial review may also be constrained by the judicially-developed
                        doctrine of non-justiciability, a constitutional concept recognising the
                        limited “capacities of the courts”, which reflects the
                        “societal concern” that courts only undertake those functions
                        “appropriate to their place in the constitution and the way they are
                        structured and expected to operate”. This form of judicial
                        self-restraint implicates both a theory of judicial power and the particular
                        conception of separation of powers a political system is modelled
                        upon.
110    The presumption of constitutionality is
                    intimately tied to the idea of separation of powers and, to that end, where
                    issues of social morality are concerned, the calibrated approach mentioned at
                    [108] above should be tilted in favour of persons who are elected and entrusted
                    with the task of representing the people’s interests and
                will.
When will our courts find that a law or an application of a law
                contravenes Art 12?
111    Notwithstanding the foregoing, does the
                    strong presumption of the constitutionality of laws enacted by Parliament mean
                    that our courts will never intervene to strike down a law as unconstitutional?
                    The answer must be a categorical and unqualified no.
112    It is both the duty and the constitutional
                    role of our courts to ensure that Parliament does not contravene the rights
                    enshrined in the Constitution for it is the Constitution, and not Parliament,
                    that is supreme in our legal system. Our courts are the guardians who ensure
                    that the rule of law and all that it entails is observed and prevails.
                    Successive Chief Justices of our Supreme Court have emphasised this role:
(a)     Wee CJ said in Chng Suan Tze v Minister of Home Affairs [1988]
                        2 SLR(R) 525 at [86]:
All power has legal limits and the rule of law demands that the courts
                            should be able to examine the exercise of discretionary power. If
                            therefore the executive in exercising its discretion under an Act of
                            Parliament has exceeded the four corners within which Parliament has
                            decided it can exercise its discretion, such an exercise of discretion
                            would be ultra vires the Act and a court
                            of law must be able to hold it to be so.
(b)     Yong Pung
                        How CJ said in Taw Cheng Kong (CA) at
                        [89]:
Questions on the constitutionality of our laws and whether they have
                            been enacted ultra vires the powers of the
                            Legislature are matters of grave concern for our nation as a whole. The
                            courts, in upholding the rule of law in Singapore, will no doubt readily
                            invalidate laws that derogate from the Constitution which is the supreme
                            law of our land.
(c)     Chan Sek
                        Keong CJ in Yong Vui Kong v
                            Attorney-General [2011] 2 SLR 1189 highlighted (at [79])
                        that beyond Art 149 of the Constitution:
... Parliament left untouched the full amplitude of the Chng Suan Tze principle, and thereby implicitly
                            endorsed it. Thus, in Phyllis Tan, this
                            court stated that the Chng Suan Tze
                            principle, which was applied to a statutory power in Chng Suan
                                Tze (viz, the power to make
                            detention orders and to suspend such orders under, respectively,
                            s 8 and s 10 of the Internal Security Act), was also
                            applicable to a constitutional power.
                            [emphasis in original]
(a)     Chan CJ,
                        writing extra-judicially in “Securing and Maintaining the
                        Independence of the Court in Judicial Proceedings” (2010)
                        22 SAcLJ 229, also opined (at para 2) that:
The rule of law has meaning only if all are subject to the law and all
                            are equal before the law. Hence, the governors as well as the governed
                            must respect the law and subject themselves to it. But respect for and
                            subjection to the law can only be sustained if a neutral institution exists to ensure that the law is
                            respected and enforced against all. That institution, in all
                            democracies, is the Judiciary. It is in this sense that the Judiciary is
                            the “lynchpin of a democratic society and the rule of
                            law”. [emphasis in original]
113    It is therefore not surprising that in many
                    of the cases involving constitutional challenges to legislation, even though the
                    challenges fail, the courts underline the fact that they will intervene if it is
                    warranted. For instance:
(a)     In Ong Ah
                            Chuan, the Privy Council said (at [37]) that a legislative
                        provision which treated different classes of persons differently would not
                        be inconsistent with Art 12 “[p]rovided that the factor which
                        the Legislature adopts as constituting the dissimilarity in circumstances is
                            not purely arbitrary but bears a
                        reasonable relation to the social object of the law” [emphasis
                        added].
(b)     In
                            Kedar Nath Bajoria Hari Ram Vaid v State of West
                            Bengal AIR 1953 SC 404, the Indian Supreme Court
                        said (at 406): “the legislative classification must not be arbitrary” [emphasis
                    added].
(c)     In
                            Chiranjit Lal, the Indian Supreme Court
                        said (at 911–912): “the classification [prescribed] should never be arbitrary” [emphasis
                        added].
(d)     In
                            Malaysian Bar, the Malaysian Supreme Court
                        held (at 167 per Salleh Abas LP)
                        that:
… [I]f the basis of the difference has a reasonable connection
                            with the object of the impugned legislation, the difference and
                            therefore the law which contains such provision is constitutional and
                            valid. If on the other hand there is no such relationship the difference
                            is stigmatized as discriminatory and the impugned legislation is
                            therefore unconstitutional and invalid.
(e)     In Yong Vui Kong, our Court of Appeal pointed out Lord
                        Diplock’s unease in Ong Ah Chuan when
                        the Prosecution sidestepped answering his question as to whether, so long as
                        a statute was an Act of Parliament, it would constitute “law”
                        for the purposes of Art 9(1) of the Constitution, however unfair,
                        absurd or oppressive that statute might be. Chan CJ went on to say (at
                        [16] of Yong Vui Kong):
Perhaps, the Privy Council had in mind colourable legislation which
                            purported to enact a “law” as generally understood
                                (ie, a legislative rule of general
                            application), but which in effect was a legislative judgment, that is to
                            say, legislation directed at securing the conviction of particular known
                            individuals (see Don John Francis Douglas Liyanage v
                                The Queen [1967] 1 AC 259 at 291), or legislation of so absurd or arbitrary a nature
                            that it could not possibly have been contemplated by our constitutional
                            framers as being “law” when they crafted the
                            constitutional provisions protecting fundamental liberties (ie, the provisions now set out in Pt IV of
                            the Singapore Constitution). [emphasis added]
I do not advocate moving to the “strict
                    scrutiny” test of “a more searching judicial inquiry”
                    applied by the US courts when it comes to disadvantaged groups, suspect
                    classification or impinging on fundamental rights (see Korematsu and United States v Carolene
                        Products Co (1938) 304 US 144 at 152, n 4).
                    However, I would say it is only natural for our courts to scrutinise very
                    carefully a piece of legislation and the relation between its purpose and the
                    differentia underlying the classification prescribed therein if the court finds
                    not only that the differentia in question appears arbitrary, but that it also
                    appears to be discriminatorily based on factors like race or religion and
                    concerns the fundamental liberties set out in Part IV of the
                    Constitution.
114    I say this because it is possible to
                    conceive of cases where the object of the legislation is illegitimate. The fact
                    that such cases may be very far and few between does not preclude the
                    possibility that they can occur. The need for legitimacy of purpose is
                    heightened because whether the differentia underlying the prescribed
                    classification is found to be rationally related to the purpose of the
                    legislation depends on how broadly or narrowly the purpose of the legislation is
                    framed. If the legislation in question is truly discriminating arbitrarily and
                    without a legitimate purpose, the court cannot stand by the sidelines and do
                    nothing. Parliament cannot introduce arbitrary and unjustified discrimination by
                    simply hiding behind the curtain of words and language used in impugned
                    legislation, or behind statements in Parliamentary debates which will yield an
                    apparent purpose of the legislation concerned that invariably relates rationally
                    to the differentia underlying the classification prescribed by that legislation,
                    thereby satisfying the “reasonable classification” test. The
                    courts can, and will, critically examine and test such legislation where
                    necessary and appropriate.
115    Dr Thio addresses this issue by arguing
                    that “it is conceivable that a classification may satisfy the
                    ‘reasonable relation’ test and yet be invalid because the object
                    sought to be achieved is itself inherently bad” (see Huang-Thio at p 422). She then illustrates this, quite
                    aptly, by citing the case of Takahashi v Fish and Game
                        Commissioner 334 US 410 (1948). In that case, the
                    challenger, Takahashi, was an alien under US immigration laws and was ineligible
                    for US citizenship. He was barred by Californian law from earning his living as
                    a fisherman in the ocean waters off the coast of California since Californian
                    law prohibited the issue of commercial fishing licences to Japanese aliens.
                    Takahashi challenged that law on the ground of denial of equal protection. The
                    State of California argued that the law was passed as a fish conservation
                    measure, or alternatively, to protect Californian citizens engaged in commercial
                    fishing from competition by Japanese aliens. The US Supreme Court held that the
                    law violated the requirement of equality on either of these stated purposes. If
                    fish conservation was the purpose of the law, then a classification based on
                    ineligibility for citizenship had no rational relation to the purpose and was
                    therefore unconstitutional. If, on the other hand, the purpose was to protect
                    Californian citizens engaged in commercial fishing from competition from
                    Japanese aliens, then the legislation would have passed the “rational
                    relation” test and should have been upheld, but the fact that it was
                    struck down on this ground as well must mean that the law, which discriminated
                    against the targeted group based on racial grounds as an end in itself, violated
                    the requirement of equality because the objective sought was not legitimate. In
                    this regard, Murphy and Rutledge JJ pointed out (at 427) that the law in
                    question was:
… directed in spirit and in effect solely against aliens of
                        Japanese birth. It denies them commercial fishing rights not because they
                        threaten the success of any conservation program, not because their fishing
                        activities constitute a clear and present danger to the welfare of
                        California or of the nation, but only because they are of Japanese stock
                        ...
116    I agree that this has to be the position
                    adopted in relation to Art 12. However, the terminology of
                    “legitimacy” has to be very carefully understood.
                    “Legitimacy” in the context of Art 12 is undoubtedly a
                    substantive concept, and is relevant only in scrutinising the purpose of
                    legislation which applies to a very specific class of people in society. Where a
                    piece of legislation does not satisfy the requirement of legitimacy of purpose,
                    the terms “capricious”, “absurd” and
                        “Wednesbury unreasonableness”
                    come to mind. Such legislation will more likely than not also infringe other
                    parts of the Constitution as well. In directing my mind to whether the purpose
                    of a piece of legislation is legitimate or illegitimate, I accept that it would
                    be wrong to decide such a matter based on a blind acceptance of legislative
                    fiat. It is the court’s “duty to declare invalid any exercise of
                    power, legislative and executive, which exceeds
                    the limits of the power conferred by the Constitution, or which contravenes any
                    prohibition which the Constitution provides” [emphasis added]: see
                        Chan Hiang Leng Colin v Minister for Information and the
                        Arts [1996] 1 SLR(R) 294 at [50]. As the Court of Appeal
                    observed in Nguyen at [73], a fundamental question
                    in most cases is “the proper weight that ought to be ascribed to the
                    views of Parliament as encapsulated in the impugned
                legislation”.
The purpose of s 377A is not an illegitimate purpose
117    Is the purpose of s 377A then
                    illegitimate? As stated above at [67], s 377A essentially addresses a
                    social and public morality concern which our Legislature identified in 1938 and
                    subsequently affirmed in 2007. One possible argument that could be made against
                    the legitimacy of the purpose of s 377A is that female homosexual conduct
                    is not criminalised while male homosexual conduct is. This exclusion of female
                    homosexual conduct has been pointed out by the Plaintiffs, and was also referred
                    to in Tan Eng Hong at [126].
118    Bearing in mind that the Plaintiffs have not
                    produced cogent and compelling evidence to establish that such a purpose
                        (ie, criminalising only male homosexual
                    conduct and not female homosexual conduct) is illegitimate, and also taking into
                    consideration certain reasons which I shall elaborate upon shortly, I find that
                    the purpose of s 377A is not illegitimate as to warrant the court’s
                    intervention notwithstanding that the two-step Tan Eng
                        Hong test is satisfied. There are two reasons for arriving at
                    this conclusion.
The weight of historical practices vis-à-vis male homosexual conduct
                suggests a basis for those practices
119    The first reason is grounded in the idea
                    that the courts should not be too quick to dismiss practices which have
                    persisted and developed within the framework of a common law legal system. It is
                    fair to presume that if a law has withstood the test of time, it cannot be
                    devoid of any basis. If the court is to pronounce that a law which has stood for
                    decades or centuries is wrong and ought not to have been enacted because its
                    bases, whatever they may be, are so flawed, a justification of proportionate
                    magnitude is invariably required. Where such a justification is not evident or
                    forthcoming, whether or not any changes should be made to that law should be
                    left up to Parliament. With this in mind, I proceed to state an undeniable fact,
                        viz, that the common law has for a long time
                    only proscribed male homosexual conduct, and not female homosexual
                    conduct.
120    English criminal law has always only
                    targeted male homosexual conduct, and not female homosexual conduct. An attempt
                    was made in 1921 in England to criminalise female homosexual conduct, but this
                    attempt was not successful. The proposed clause making female homosexual conduct
                    an offence read as follows:

Acts of indecency by
                            females

Any act of gross indecency between female persons shall be a misdemeanour,
                        and punishable in the same manner as any such act committed by male persons
                        under section eleven of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 [ie, the UK 1885 Act mentioned at [63] above].
The similarity between the above clause and s 11 of the UK 1885
                    Act is unmistakable. It appears from the speech of the Earl of Malmesbury during
                    the House of Lords’ debate on 15 August 1921 that this clause was
                    introduced in the early hours of the morning at the end of a session by some
                    private members of the House of Commons (see HL
                        Deb (16 August 1921) vol 43 at cols 567–577,
                    and likewise for all the subsequent quotes in this paragraph). The Earl of
                    Malmesbury felt that “this subject did not require serious attention, and
                    that such stories as [those members of the House of Commons] heard were
                    exaggerated. … If, after careful inquiry, it is found desirable [to]
                    introduce a measure to make criminal this particular offence … [he] would
                    support it if [he] was convinced that it was needed”. The Earl of Desart
                    similarly spoke against the clause, saying that “it was a new clause,
                    involving a serious alternation in the Criminal Law and creating a new offence
                    – a course open to the greatest objection and of a very controversial
                    character”. The Lord Chancellor also said: “I hold the strongest
                    view, for the reasons stated by Lord Desart, that the case has not been
                    made out on its merits for such an alteration in the law”. The House of
                    Lords refused to sanction passage of the clause. There does not appear to have
                    been another attempt to make female homosexual conduct an offence in England.
                    Even in the Wolfenden Report, there is only one reference to indecent assaults
                    by females on females at para 103, which reads:

Indecent Assaults by Females
                            on Females

103.  Since an indecent assault by one female on
                            another could take the form of a homosexual act, we have included
                            indecent assaults on females by females in the lists of homosexual
                            offences in paragraph 77 above. We have, however, found no case in
                            which a female has been convicted of an act with another female which
                            exhibits the libidinous features that characterise sexual acts between
                            males. We are aware that the criminal statistics occasionally show
                            females as having been convicted of indecent assaults on females; but on
                            enquiry we find that this is due in the main to the practice of
                            including in the figures relating to any particular offence not only
                            those convicted of the offence itself, but also those convicted of
                            aiding and abetting the commission of the offence. Thus, a woman
                            convicted of aiding and abetting a man to commit an indecent assault on
                            a female would be shown in the statistics as having herself committed
                            such an assault.
121    The proscription by English criminal law of
                    only male homosexual conduct and not female homosexual conduct is, possibly, a
                    reflection of religious or other customary beliefs which have long permeated
                    English law and politics. One plausible basis for such beliefs is the
                    Judeo-Christian traditions, which proscribed male homosexual practices in the
                    clearest condemnatory terms in the Old Testament of the Bible and even
                    prescribed the punishment of death by stoning. In comparison, there appears to
                    be only one passing reference in the New Testament of the Bible to women who
                    “exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to
                    nature” (see Romans 1:26).
122    It could be argued that notwithstanding the
                    law against committing acts of “gross indecency”, there were other
                    laws relating to sexual offences which, on their plain wording, did not focus
                    only on male homosexual conduct but were instead gender-neutral, ie in the sense that the laws could possibly relate to
                    sexual conduct between females. This was pointed out by the Court of Appeal in
                        Tan Eng Hong, which noted (at [26]) that
                    England’s buggery laws were gender-neutral whereas s 11 of the UK
                    1885 Act was not. The phraseology in the now-repealed s 377 was certainly,
                    on its face, gender-neutral. But, it is with great diffidence and with great
                    respect that I venture a query as to whether the buggery laws of old were truly
                    gender-neutral. In my view, the basic physiological differences between
                    men’s and women’s genitalia must mean that our s 377 and
                    English sodomy laws were not gender-neutral.
123    We need to first examine the definitions of
                    “sodomy” and “bestiality”. The word
                    “sodomy” is defined in Jowitt’s The
                        Dictionary of English Law (Clifford Walsh ed) (Sweet &
                    Maxwell Limited, 1959) as unnatural sexual intercourse by a man with another man
                    or a woman; in criminal law, such sexual intercourse is known as
                    “buggery”. The reader is then directed by the definition provided,
                    to the term “abominable crime”, which is explained as the term
                    used in s 61 of the UK 1861 Act (see [65] above) to describe the crimes of
                    buggery and bestiality. “Buggery” is defined as carnal intercourse
                    by a male person with another person or an animal consisting of penetration
                        per anum, while “bestiality” is
                    defined as the crime of having carnal intercourse with beasts. There is also a
                    reference to the term “infamous crime”, which is defined in
                    s 46 of the Larceny Act 1861 (c 96) (UK) as “the abominable
                    crime of buggery, committed either with mankind or with beast ...”. The
                    definitions of “abominable crime”, “buggery”,
                    “bestiality” and “infamous crimes” are taken from
                        Jowitt’s Dictionary of English Law
                    (Daniel Greenberg gen ed) (Thomson Reuters (Legal) Limited, 3rd Ed,
                    2010).
124    It will be seen from a closer examination of
                    these definitions that they clearly are not gender-neutral. If the essence of
                    sodomy is penile penetration per anum, then two
                    women cannot sodomise one another. The definition of “buggery”
                    above also refers to penetration per anum; it
                    similarly cannot apply to “intercourse” between two women. In this
                    regard, I do not think that the offence of buggery applies to digital
                    penetration. The exception to this is that a woman can lie with a beast. The
                    buggery laws of old were therefore not gender-neutral as they depended on penile
                    penetration per anum. The Explanation in
                    s 377 is similarly phrased: “Penetration is sufficient to constitute
                    the carnal intercourse necessary to the offence described in this
                    section.”
125    The use of the phrase “carnal
                    intercourse against the order of nature” in the now-repealed s 377
                    came later in time and was construed to include oral sex. In cases like
                        Public Prosecutor v Tan Kuan Meng [1996] SGHC
                    16 and Public Prosecutor v Kwan Kwong Weng [1997]
                    1 SLR(R) 316 (“Kwan Kwong
                    Weng”), our courts, relying on some Indian cases, construed
                    “carnal intercourse against the order of nature” in s 377 to
                    include fellatio. It is interesting to note that the Court of Appeal in
                        Kwan Kwong Weng, whilst examining the legal
                    effect of fellatio in the context of s 377, only referred to cunnilingus
                    once towards the end of its judgment, and even then, when it came to what
                    amounted to “carnal intercourse against the order of nature”, the
                    court only mentioned fellatio at [31]:
Approaching the question as we have done, consent becomes a material
                        element for when couples engaged in consensual sexual intercourse willingly
                        indulge in fellatio and cunnilingus as a stimulant to their respective
                        sexual urges, neither act can be considered to be against the order of
                        nature and punishable under s 377 of the [1985] Penal Code. In every other instance the act of fellatio between
                        a man and a woman will be carnal intercourse against the order of nature and
                        punishable under s 377. [emphasis added in bold italics]
The Court of Appeal seemed to have deliberately avoided saying that
                    cunnilingus (which allows for the possibility of a woman-to-woman sexual act to
                    be included) fell within s 377. Therefore, even where s 377 was interpreted
                    to include oral sex, female homosexual conduct was never the
                issue.
126    It can, therefore, be seen that the common
                    law tradition has never criminalised female homosexual conduct.
Specific traditions with regard to procreation and lineage
127    The second reason for my conclusion at [118]
                    above is that some portions of Singapore society today still hold certain deep
                    seated feelings with regard to procreation and family lineage. This has
                    significance, because the courts should not readily dismiss the views of one
                    portion of society in favour of those of another portion of society. This is
                    especially so where Parliament has made clear its position on the
                matter.
128    During the October 2007 Parliamentary
                    Debates, one of the MPs, Mr Baey Yam Keng, referred to a Chinese saying,
                        “Bu Xiao You San, Wu Hou Wei
                    Da”, which, translated into English, means: “There are
                    three unfilial acts, the greatest is not to have a son.” He explained
                    that the Chinese portion of Singapore society was still largely traditional,
                    with parents looking forward to their children marrying and producing offspring
                    in order to carry on the family name; male homosexuals, just like the
                    Plaintiffs, are likely to appreciate that they would not be having children and
                    are likely to, therefore, disappoint their parents. This tradition of carrying
                    on the family name is focused on males rather than females, since the usual way
                    to carry on the family name is through the birth of a male
                descendant.
129    Of course, this is not conclusive proof that
                    Singapore society does indeed treat procreation and lineage as an important
                    value. However, the courts should not dismiss a legislative purpose as
                    illegitimate (under Art 12), where there are plausible justifications for this
                    purpose within the context of Singapore’s societal mores and
                norms.
130    Accordingly, even if the Plaintiffs had
                    argued that the purpose of s 377A was illegitimate, for the reasons above
                    (at [119]–[129]), I would be slow to find that there is no basis
                    whatsoever for Parliament to have chosen to criminalise male homosexual conduct
                    only.
The remaining arguments raised by the Plaintiffs
131    I now turn to deal with the remaining
                    contentions raised by the Plaintiffs. In my judgment, the Plaintiffs have not
                    offered or adduced any compelling or cogent material or factual evidence that
                    s 377A is arbitrary or operates in an arbitrary manner.
The term “gross indecency” is vague
132    The Plaintiffs submit that the vague wording
                    of “gross indecency” in s 377A would result either in the
                    differentia in that provision being unintelligible or in that provision being
                    applied arbitrarily. I find these submissions misplaced. A law cannot be struck
                    down for being unconstitutional based merely on the contention, without further
                    substantiation, that it is worded in an allegedly vague manner. What amounts to
                    “gross indecency” is a matter of statutory interpretation. The
                    fact that there is some width in the interpretation of this term and, therefore,
                    there can be argument as to what acts amount to “gross indecency”
                    and what acts do not does not in itself make s 377A unconstitutional. In
                    this regard, I note that the term “indecent” is not unknown in our
                    criminal law: eg, it is used in relation to
                    criminal provisions concerning public exposure and exhibition in the
                    Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and Nuisance) Act (Cap 184,
                    1997 Rev Ed). The word “gross” is likewise not an unknown
                    adjective in our criminal law.
There is a world-wide movement to decriminalise homosexual
                activity
133    The Plaintiffs have also made numerous
                    references to the decriminalisation of male homosexual conduct in other
                    jurisdictions as well as to the position taken on this issue by various
                    international and regional organisations. With respect, I find these submissions
                    to be of no weight. First and foremost, Singapore is an independent nation with
                    its own unique history, geography, society and economy. What is adopted in other
                    parts of the world may not be suitable for adoption in Singapore. Secondly,
                    postulating examples of how the world is changing without more is unhelpful as
                    such examples can be countered by examples of areas where there are shifts in
                    the opposite direction. Furthermore, it can be seen that a number of former
                    British colonies, such as Botswana, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tanzania, Yemen
                    and the Solomon Islands, have criminalised female
                    homosexual conduct while retaining their respective equivalents of s 377A.
                    The death penalty for male homosexual conduct is still retained in a few
                    countries. An apt illustration of such differences held by different societies
                    was brought up by the Prime Minister during the October 2007 Parliamentary
                    Debates when he highlighted the fact that even within the Anglican or Church of
                    England community, the Asian and the African Anglican Churches had threatened to
                    split from the American and the English Anglican Churches over the ordination of
                    gay bishops. The short – and only relevant – answer to this point is
                    that our Parliament has debated the removal of s 377A and has decided
                    against it.
If no one is to be prosecuted under s 377A, then why have
                s 377A?
134    During the October 2007 Parliamentary
                    Debates, Assoc Prof Ho said that the police would not actively prosecute
                    cases under s 377A unless minors were preyed upon by homosexuals or unless
                    acts of “gross indecency” took place in public (see [82] above).
                    Why then, the Plaintiffs contend, is there a need to have s 377A on our
                    statute books if there is going to be no prosecution? With respect, I disagree
                    with this submission. In October 2007, Parliament, after two days of intensive
                    debate, decided to retain s 377A. Valid reasons were given for its
                    retention and the decision was supported by a majority of the MPs. Whether
                    s 377A can still fulfil its purpose of signalling the public’s
                    disapprobation of male homosexual conduct notwithstanding the policy of
                    non-enforcement is a consideration for Parliament and is also supported by the
                    presumption of constitutionality. The Plaintiffs have only provided mere
                    postulations, but no material evidence, to show that the purpose of s 377A
                    would not be achieved if the provision is not actively enforced.
135    Furthermore, whether or not there is
                    prosecution of an offence is a matter of prosecutorial discretion. If there is
                    no prosecution of s 377A offences, that is no ground to say that
                    s 377A is unconstitutional. There is no complaint of arbitrary enforcement
                    in this case, and postulations that there may be
                    cases of arbitrary enforcement carry no weight in considering the issues that
                    have been raised in this originating summons. Furthermore, if the issue is with
                    regard to the arbitrary enforcement of s 377A which results in an
                    infringement of Art 12, this has been settled by the Court of Appeal in
                        Ramalingam Ravinthran v Attorney-General
                    [2012] 2 SLR 49; but more importantly, it is not an issue in the present
                    case.
The repeal of s 377 renders the retention of s 377A
                unjustified
136    In 2007, Parliament recognised that social
                    norms and values in Singapore had changed, and that the majority of Singaporeans
                    no longer saw anything morally wrong or objectionable in consenting heterosexual
                    couples aged 16 and above engaging in oral and anal sex in private. I accept
                    that this represented a major shift in morality and principle. The Plaintiffs
                    submit that since the objection to oral and anal sex in private between
                    consenting heterosexual couples aged 16 and above has been removed, there is no
                    logic in continuing to proscribe (via s 377A) anal and oral sex between two
                    consenting male adults.
137    The answer can perhaps be found in Antonin
                    Scalia J’s statement in his dissenting opinion in Lawrence v Texas 539 US 558 (2003) (“Lawrence”) at 604:
One of the benefits of leaving regulation of this matter to the people
                        rather than to the courts is that the people, unlike judges, need not carry
                        things to their logical conclusion. The people may feel that their
                        disapprobation of homosexual conduct is strong enough to disallow homosexual
                        marriage, but not strong enough to criminalize private homosexual acts
                        – and may legislate accordingly.
138    Again, I repeat that during the October 2007
                    Parliamentary Debates, Parliament considered s 377 and s 377A
                    carefully, and after debating the matter fully, endorsed the repeal of
                    s 377 but chose to retain s 377A. I can see no basis in this case to
                    interfere given my reasons set out above. It is clear that Parliament saw a
                    reasonable differentia upon which to distinguish between two classes: anal and
                    oral sex in private between a consenting man and a consenting woman (both aged
                    16 and above) was acceptable, but the same conduct was repugnant and offensive
                    when carried out between two men even if both men were consenting parties. There
                    is therefore no reason to strike down the basis of the classification prescribed
                    by s 377A –
                    viz, male homosexuality – as arbitrary or
                    discriminatory, or on the ground that it does not bear any rational relation to
                    the purpose of the provision.
Conclusion
139    We are a society in the midst of change.
                    Some changes come fast; others evolve and take time to gain a hold and to gain
                    currency. In the latter case, a court will be hard put, when it stands at a
                    particular point in time between the two ends of the spectrum when the change in
                    a particular long-held social norm has yet to gain currency, to decide whether
                    that social norm should be retained or discarded in the face of a constitutional
                    challenge to that social norm. In our legal system, that decision is left to
                    Parliament. Even when society has clearly shifted closer to one end of the
                    spectrum, our courts can but call on Parliament to consider changing the law.
                    That said, I also accept that there are times, albeit very rare, when a court is
                    able to say that a certain principle of law is outmoded and should no longer be
                    enforced. To my knowledge, this has only happened once in Singapore, and that
                    was in relation not to a statutory provision, but to a common law cause of
                    action. In the case of TPY v DZI [1997]
                    1 SLR(R) 843, a husband, whose wife had left him for another man, tried to
                    sue that man for damages for loss of consortium under the tort of enticement.
                    MPH Rubin J struck out the claim and held that the tort of enticement
                    was founded on an archaic concept of women as chattels, which was clearly not
                    acceptable in modern society (at [14]):
Having regard to the perfunctory nature of the pleadings and taking the
                        pleadings at its face value, it is my view that to give currency to a cause
                        of action which had no known presence in Singapore and one which had been
                        given a final farewell in its place of birth would be to lend a hand to
                        encouraging fruitless litigation for vindictive purposes. In my opinion,
                        though the tort of enticement might well have been received in Singapore
                        under the Second Charter of Justice, it cannot continue to serve any useful
                        purpose particularly when society no longer subscribes to the view that
                        women are mere chattels and whose existence is only to be in the service of
                        their husbands. Sections 45, 46, 48 and 49 of the Women’s Charter
                        clearly underscore the aspect that a wife is a person in her own right and
                        not someone who is subordinate to, or a chattel of her husband.
140    In the US, it took a civil war to end
                    slavery and an even longer time to fully emancipate blacks; indeed, it was only
                    in 2008 that the US elected its first black President. In 1986, the US Supreme
                    Court held that the US Constitution did not prohibit what almost all the States
                    had done from the founding of the US until recent times, viz, make homosexual conduct a crime: see Bowers v Hardwick 478 US 186 (1986) (“Bowers”). Some twenty years later, in June 2006,
                    the US Supreme Court in Lawrence in effect
                    reversed Bowers by a majority, holding that the
                    Texas statute making “deviate sexual intercourse” with another
                    individual of the same sex a misdemeanour furthered no legitimate State interest
                    which could justify the statute’s intrusion into the personal and private
                    life of an individual. That case dealt with the liberty of the individual as
                    well as his right to privacy.
141    Very recently, on 26 March 2013, the US
                    Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the first of two cases on same-sex
                    marriage, Dennis Hollingsworth et al v Kristin M Perry
                        et al (Case No 12-144), which was an appeal from the
                    decision in Perry v Hollingsworth
                    671 F 3d 1052 (9th Cir, 2012). The case concerned the
                    constitutionality of California’s Proposition 8 (the result of a
                    referendum held in November 2008), which bans same-sex marriage by defining
                    “marriage” as a union between a man and a woman. The US Supreme
                    Court justices’ questions and observations in the course of hearing
                    arguments obviously do not necessarily reflect how they will eventually decide
                    the issue, but I find them telling all the same. The US Supreme Court justices
                    were clearly concerned about the pace of change. Justice Kennedy, uncertain
                    about the consequences for society if same-sex marriage was allowed, expressed
                    his caution that “[w]e have five years of information to weigh against
                    2,000 years of history or more”. Justice Alito Jr echoed,
                    saying “[y]ou want us to step in and render a decision based on an
                    assessment of the effects of this institution [viz, same sex marriage] which is newer than cellphones or the
                    Internet?” The other US Supreme Court justices too, appeared to have
                    reservations about having to determine the issue at this juncture.
                    Justice Sotomayor noted that that the US Supreme Court had taken its time
                    to decide on landmark issues before, for instance, letting “racial
                    segregation perk for 50 years from 1898 to 1954”. She was referring to
                    the seminal decision of Brown v Board of Education
                    347 US 483 (1954), which barred racial segregation in public schools and
                    outlawed the “separate but equal” facilities for black people that
                    the US Supreme Court had upheld half a century earlier (see Homer A Plessy v Ferguson 163 US 537 (1896)).
142    To my mind, defining moral issues need time
                    to evolve and are best left to the Legislature to resolve. Even the seminal case
                    of Roe v Wade 410 US 113 (1973) has been
                    doubted. Justice Ginsburg has often been quoted as saying that the decision
                    was incorrect, with the most recent instance being at an event in Columbia Law
                    School, where she said “[i]t’s not that the judgment was wrong, but
                    it moved too far, too fast”. Justice Ginsburg aptly sums up her
                    views on this matter in an article written when she was still a United States
                    Circuit Judge (see Ruth Bader Ginsburg, “Some Thoughts on Autonomy and
                    Equality in Relation to Roe v. Wade” (1985)
                    63 North Carolina Law Review 375 at pp 385–386):

Roe, I believe, would have been more
                        acceptable as a judicial decision if it had not gone beyond a ruling on the
                        extreme statute before the Court. The political process
                            was moving in the early 1970s, not
                            swiftly enough for advocates of quick, complete change, but the
                            majoritarian institutions were listening and acting. Heavy-handed
                            judicial intervention was difficult to justify and appears to
                        have provoked, not resolved, conflict. [emphasis added in italics and bold
                        italics]
143    Therefore it is not that the courts do not
                    have any role to play in defining moral issues when such issues are at stake.
                    However, the courts’ power to intervene can only be exercised within
                    established principles. The issue in the present case no doubt is challenging
                    and important, but it is not one which, in my view, justifies heavy-handed
                    judicial intervention ahead of democratic change.
144    As stated above, the basis underlying
                    s 377A’s existence is, in the final analysis, an issue of morality
                    and societal values. The views ventilated in Parliament during the October 2007
                    Parliamentary Debates and at the hearing of this case are without a doubt
                    controversial and disparate among various segments of our society. What is
                    clear, however, is that Parliament has decided that s 377A should be
                    retained. That decision is not one which is undeniably wrong. Our courts cannot
                    substitute their own views for that of Parliament.
145    As eloquently put by Scalia J in his
                    dissenting opinion in Lawrence
                    (at 603):
Let me be clear that I have nothing against homosexuals, or any other
                        group, promoting their agenda through normal democratic means. Social
                        perceptions of sexual and other morality change over time, and every group
                        has the right to persuade its fellow citizens that its view of such matters
                        is the best. That homosexuals have achieved some success in that enterprise
                        is attested to by the fact that Texas is one of the few remaining States
                        that criminalize private, consensual homosexual acts. But persuading
                        one’s fellow citizens is one thing, and imposing one’s views in
                        absence of democratic majority will is something else. I would no more
                        require a State to criminalize homosexual acts – or, for that matter,
                        display any moral disapprobation of them
                        – than I would forbid it to do so. What
                        Texas has chosen to do is well within the range of traditional democratic
                        action, and its hand should not be stayed through the invention of a
                        brand-new “constitutional right” by a Court that is impatient
                        of democratic change. [emphasis in original]
146    In my judgment, the object of s 377A is
                    clear. It criminalises male homosexual conduct as conduct that is not acceptable
                    in our society. Its retention was endorsed by Parliament in 2007. Applying the
                    “reasonable classification” test, there is complete coincidence
                    between the differentia underlying the classification prescribed by s 377A
                    and the object of the provision. The differentia underlying the classification
                    prescribed by s 377A therefore bears a rational relation to the object of
                    the provision, and therefore satisfies both limbs of the “reasonable
                    classification” test set out at [46] above. Therefore s 377A is neither
                    arbitrary nor discriminatory in the constitutional context. I also find that the
                    purpose of s 377A is not a purpose which is so patently wrong as to render
                    it an illegitimate purpose upon which to base a classification prescribed by
                    law.
147    For the reasons set out above, I decline to
                    make the orders (which are in truth for declarations) sought by the Plaintiffs
                    and dismiss their claim that s 377A is unconstitutional and infringes their
                    rights under Art 12.
148    I shall hear the parties on
                costs.
[note: 1]Plaintiffs’ written submissions at para
                        47.[note: 2]Plaintiffs’ written submissions at paras
                                146–154.[note: 3]Plaintiffs’ written submissions at para
                        36.[note: 4]Plaintiffs’ written submissions at para
                        163.[note: 5]Plaintiffs’ written submissions at paras
                                167–177.[note: 6]Defendant’s written submissions at
                                paras 26–65.[note: 7]Defendant’s written submissions at paras
                                66–85.[note: 8]Defendant’s written submissions at para
                            8.[note: 9]Defendant’s written submissions at para
                            65.[note: 10]Defendant’s written submissions
                                at paras 73–80.[note: 11]Defendant’s written submissions at paras
                            9–14.[note: 12]Defendant’s written submissions at para
                            14(b).Copyright © Government of Singapore.
