


      Yong Vui Kong 
      v
      Public Prosecutor
    [2012] SGCA 23Case Number:Criminal Motion No 2 of 2012Decision Date:04 April 2012Tribunal/Court:Court of AppealCoram:
      Chan Sek Keong CJ; 
      Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA; 
      V K Rajah JA
    Counsel Name(s):
      M Ravi (L F Violet Netto) for the applicant; 
      Mavis Chionh, Teo Guan Siew, Kow Weijie Kelvin and Kok Shu-en (Attorney-General's Chambers) for the respondent.
    Parties:
      Yong Vui Kong — 
      Public Prosecutor
    
4 April 2012Judgment reserved.

        Chan Sek Keong CJ (delivering the judgment of the
                court):
Introduction
1       On 10 January 2012, this court delivered
                    its judgment in Ramalingam Ravinthran v
                        Attorney-General [2012] SGCA 2 (“Ramalingam”). Based on the principles which we clarified
                    and enunciated in Ramalingam (see [17] below), Yong Vui Kong (“Yong”)
                    filed this criminal motion (“this Motion”) on 27 January 2012
                    seeking the following orders:
(a)     that this court re-opens its decision
                        upholding Yong’s conviction of a capital drug trafficking offence
                        under the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2001 Rev Ed) (“the
                        MDA”);
(b)     that the selective prosecution as between Yong and his alleged boss and
                        supplier, Chia Choon Leng (“Chia”), who had the charges
                        against him discontinued pursuant to a discontinuance not amounting to an
                        acquittal (“DNAQ”) and who was detained under the Criminal Law
                        (Temporary Provisions) Act (Cap 67, 2000 Rev Ed) (“the
                        CLTPA”), violated Yong’s right to equality before the law and
                        equal protection of the law under Art 12(1) of the Constitution of the
                        Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the
                        Constitution”); and
(c)     that Yong’s conviction be quashed and the matter
                        remitted to the Attorney-General (“the AG”) to consider
                        whether or not to proceed against both Yong and Chia for the same offence;
                        or, alternatively
(d)     that the capital charge against Yong be amended, and the sentence of
                        death imposed on him be set aside and replaced with a suitable non-capital
                        sentence so that there is no difference in treatment as between Yong and
                        Chia.
2       The basis of Yong’s application is that
                    the decision of the AG (who is also the Public Prosecutor) to prosecute him for
                    a capital offence under s 5(1)(a) of the MDA
                    was a breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution because the AG had, in
                    contrast, applied for (and obtained) a DNAQ of various charges under the MDA
                    against Chia, including three capital charges, even though Chia was Yong’s
                    alleged boss and supplier. Chia is currently still being detained under the
                    CLTPA.
The factual background
3       Yong was convicted on 14 November 2008 of
                    trafficking in 47.27g of diamorphine and was sentenced to suffer death pursuant
                    to s 33 of the MDA read with the Second Schedule thereto (see Public Prosecutor v Yong Vui Kong
                    [2009] SGHC 4). Yong appealed against his conviction and sentence, but
                    subsequently withdrew the appeal on 29 April 2009 before this court on
                        (inter alia) the ground that as a converted
                    Buddhist, he could not rely on a defence which was a lie. He then petitioned the
                    President for clemency. Yong’s petition for clemency was rejected on
                    20 November 2009.
4       Yong later changed his mind about not appealing
                    against his sentence, and applied to this court for an extension of time to
                    pursue such an appeal on the ground that the mandatory death penalty
                    (“MDP”) imposed by s 33 of the MDA read with the Second
                    Schedule thereto was unconstitutional. This court granted the application (see
                        Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor [2010]
                    2 SLR 192). Subsequently, at the substantive hearing of Yong’s
                    appeal against his sentence, this court dismissed Yong’s constitutional
                    challenge to the MDP (see Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor
                        and another matter [2010] 3 SLR 489).
5       Yong next applied for leave to bring judicial
                    review proceedings in respect of the integrity of the clemency process set out
                    in Art 22P of the Constitution on the ground that due to certain remarks
                    made by the Minister for Law (“the Law Minister”) at a
                    constituency function (which remarks were reported by the media), the integrity
                    of the clemency process in his case had been fatally compromised as the Law
                    Minister’s remarks showed that the Cabinet had made up its mind to reject
                    his second clemency petition (which he had not even filed at that point in
                    time). This application was dismissed by the High Court (see Yong Vui Kong v Attorney-General [2011] 1 SLR 1).
                    Yong’s appeal to this court against the High Court’s decision was
                    dismissed on 4 April 2011 (see Yong Vui Kong v
                        Attorney-General [2011] 2 SLR 1189). On 14 July
                    2011, Yong applied to the President a second time for clemency.[note: 1]
6       As mentioned earlier, on 10 January 2012,
                    this court delivered its judgment in Ramalingam.
                    That case, which was likewise a drug trafficking case, concerned a criminal
                    motion filed by an accused person who was unconnected with Yong but who was
                    represented by Yong’s counsel in this Motion, Mr M Ravi
                    (“Mr Ravi”). In that judgment, this court set out the
                    principles of law governing the relationship between the prosecutorial
                    discretion vested in the AG as the Public Prosecutor by Art 35(8) of the
                    Constitution and the right to equal protection set out in Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution (see [17] below). These two
                    Articles provide as follows:

Equal
                        protection


12.—(1) All persons are equal
                        before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law.
...

Attorney-General


35. ...
(8)    The Attorney-General shall have power, exercisable
                            at his discretion, to institute, conduct or discontinue any proceedings
                            for any offence.
…
The particular facts upon which this Motion is based
7       Yong was arrested in the early hours of the
                    morning on 13 June 2007 near Meritus Mandarin Hotel at Orchard Road,
                    Singapore. He admitted in his police statement recorded on 15 June 2007
                    that he had been asked by Chia to deliver some “gifts” to
                    Singapore in return for a payment of RM2,000. This conversation took place on
                    12 June 2007 in Johor Baru, Malaysia (“Johor Baru”). Yong
                    then asked his friend, one Chai Hor Hsiang, to drive him to Singapore. They
                    entered Singapore at about 9.00pm on 12 June 2007, after which they
                    proceeded to Yishun and then to Orchard Road, where they were both arrested. The
                    “gifts” contained, inter alia, the
                    47.27g of diamorphine which formed the basis of the capital charge which Yong
                    was subsequently convicted of.
8       In a police statement recorded on 16 June
                    2007, Yong was shown a photograph of Chia and was asked to identify Chia. Yong
                    identified Chia as the man who had asked him to deliver the
                    “gifts” to Singapore. Yong requested a colour photograph of Chia
                    in order to confirm the identification. Approximately two weeks later, on
                    3 July 2007, Yong was shown a colour photograph of Chia and confirmed that
                    Chia was indeed the man who had asked him on 12 June 2007 to deliver the
                    “gifts”. However, Yong went on to state in a police statement
                    recorded on 3 July 2007:[note: 2]
... I do not wish to identify him in court because I am worried about my
                        own safety as well as that of my family. I request that Chia … would
                        never kn[o]w that I had identify [sic] him in
                        the photo.
9       On 4 August 2007, Chia (who had been
                    arrested by the police in Malaysia and handed over to the Central Narcotics
                    Bureau (“the CNB”) in Singapore) was charged with (inter alia) instigating Yong in Johor Baru on
                    12 June 2007 to transport 36 packets containing a gross weight of
                    approximately 1,227.02g of diamorphine from Johor Baru to Singapore. This
                    charge, which was a capital charge, was amended on 7 October 2007 to state
                    the weight of the diamorphine involved as 61.36g. On the same day, Chia was also
                    charged with four other non-capital charges of instigating Yong to transport
                    controlled drugs to Singapore, namely:
(a)     instigating Yong on 12 June 2007
                        in Johor Baru to transport 189.65g of ketamine to
                    Singapore;
(b)     instigating Yong on 12 June 2007 in Johor Baru to transport 29.81g of
                        N,a-dimethyl-3,4-(methylenedioxy)phenethylamine to
                    Singapore;
(c)     instigating Yong on 12 June 2007 in Johor Baru to transport 23.01g of
                        methamphetamine to Singapore; and
(d)     instigating Yong on 12 June 2007 in Johor Baru to
                        transport 1,500 tablets containing nimetazepam to
                    Singapore.
As can be seen from the contents of these charges,
                    they all arose out of the particular incident in Johor Baru on 12 June 2007
                    when Chia allegedly instigated Yong to transport controlled drugs to
                    Singapore.
10     On 9 September 2008, Yong’s then
                    defence counsel, Mr Kelvin Lim Phuan Foo (“Mr Lim”),
                    made representations to the Prosecution to seek a reduction of the capital
                    charge against Yong to a non-capital charge of trafficking in not less than
                    14.99g of diamorphine.[note: 3] Mr Lim drew the
                    Prosecution’s attention to, inter alia,
                    Yong’s young age and low level of culpability. As the Prosecution did not
                    reduce the capital charge against Yong, we can infer that Mr Lim’s
                    representations were rejected.
11     Yong’s trial in the High Court took
                    place over five days in September and October 2008. On the second day of the
                    trial (viz, 30 September 2008), the trial
                    judge (“the Trial Judge”) asked the Prosecution about
                        Chia:[note: 4]

[DPP] Tan:

Your Honour, as we are moving on to the
                                            identification and the marking of the exhibits, can we
                                            ask for a 5 minutes’ adjournment to prepare the
                                            exhibits?

Court:

Yes, all right. By the way, what’s
                                            happened to this Chia Choon Leng?

[DPP] Tan:

Yes, your Honour.

[DPP] Koy:


He has been detained
                                                under the Criminal Law Temporary Provisions
                                                Act.


Court:

So he’s not facing any charges at
                                            the moment?

[DPP] Koy:


Initially, he was but
                                                
due to the difficulty
                                                of the evidence
, we
                                                decided that we would withdraw the charges against
                                                him and executive action was taken against
                                                him.

[emphasis added in italics and bold
                                            italics]

The Trial Judge queried the Prosecution about Chia (who was also known
                    as “Ah Hiang”) again on the third day of the trial (viz, 2 October 2008):[note: 5]

Court:

… Mr Koy, this person known
                                            as Ah Hiang, [has] he been apprehended or
                                        not?

[DPP] Koy:

This – this is the person who was
                                            arrested, initially charged but
                                                unfortunately, the evidence is not sufficient
                                                against him.

Court:

It’s the one in – under the
                                            criminal law detention.

[DPP] Koy:

That’s correct, your
                                        Honour.

Court:

Do you have his full name
                                        again?

[DPP] Koy:

Chia, C-H-I-A
                                    –

Court:

Yes.

[DPP] Koy:

Choon, C-H-O-O-N, Leng,
                                        L-E-N-G.

Court:

Thank you.

[emphasis added]

12     On 19 October 2011 (about three months
                    after Yong’s second clemency petition was filed), Mr Ravi wrote to
                    the Prosecution to ask why Chia had not been produced at Yong’s trial as a
                    prosecution witness.[note: 6] The Prosecution replied on
                    25 October 2011, inter alia, as
                        follows:[note: 7]
(a)     In his police statement recorded on
                        3 July 2007, Yong had identified Chia as the alleged mastermind of the
                        operation to transport controlled drugs to Singapore. However, Yong had also
                        made it clear that he did not wish to identify (and by implication, testify
                        against) Chia in court and that Chia should not be informed that Yong had
                        identified him.
(b)     Chia had been detained under the CLTPA. The Prosecution had informed the
                        Trial Judge of this fact on two occasions.
(c)     The Prosecution had not called Chia as a witness
                        because his evidence was not necessary for its case against Yong.
                        Mr Lim, Yong’s then defence counsel, had also not called Chia as
                        a defence witness despite the disclosure during the trial of Chia’s
                        detention under the CLTPA.
The Prosecution’s reply
                    enclosed extracts of those parts of the certified transcript of the notes of
                    evidence of Yong’s trial where the Prosecution informed the Trial Judge
                    that Chia had been detained under the CLTPA because the evidence against him was
                    insufficient (see [11] above).
13     About two months later, on 6 January
                    2012, Mr Ravi wrote to the Prosecution again asking, inter alia, if it was willing to provide him with the
                        following:[note: 8]
(a)     particulars of the other members of
                        the drug syndicate in which Yong and Chia were involved (“the Drug
                        Syndicate”); and
(b)     copies of the charges against Chia which were
                        subsequently discontinued pursuant to a DNAQ.
The
                    Prosecution replied on 7 February 2012 stating that the particulars of the
                    other members of the Drug Syndicate were “irrelevant to the charge [Yong]
                    was convicted of”.[note: 9] As for the charges against
                    Chia, the Prosecution informed Mr Ravi that 26 charges had been
                    preferred against Chia, but only five charges “were in relation to [the]
                    charges tendered against [Yong]”.[note: 10] The
                    Prosecution provided Mr Ravi with copies of those five charges, but
                    declined to disclose the remaining 21 charges because it took the view that
                    they were not relevant to Yong’s case. The five charges which were
                    disclosed are the five instigation charges set out above (at [9]).
14     After the hearing of this Motion on
                    14 March 2012, we disclosed to both parties the minute sheet of the
                    pre-trial conference held before District Judge Chew Chin Yee (“the
                    DJ”) on 13 May 2008 (“the Minute Sheet”), which
                    recorded the Prosecution informing the DJ that it would be applying for a DNAQ
                    of the capital charges against Chia as follows:
... Prepared to take PI [preliminary inquiry] for [Yong]. But for [Chia], had time to consider evidence against him.
                            Going to apply for DNAQ against [Chia], in May or at next
                        mention, in respect of the capital charge [sic]. ... [emphasis added]
In the light of this disclosure, leave was given to both parties to
                    tender written submissions on “the relevance and/or effect (if any) of
                    the Minute Sheet”.[note: 11] (It should be noted that
                    the DNAQ which the Prosecution eventually applied for and obtained covered all
                    26 charges against Chia, and not merely the capital charges against him.)
                    Upon receiving the Minute Sheet, Mr Ravi wrote to the court asking for
                    disclosure of the remaining 21 charges against Chia. The record of the
                    preliminary inquiry proceedings in the High Court shows that of these
                    21 charges, there were two capital charges, namely:
(a)     that Chia trafficked in 17.21g of
                        diamorphine on 2 April 2007 in the vicinity of Serangoon Central,
                        Singapore by giving it to one Koh Bak Kiang (“Koh”);
                        and
(b)     that Chia,
                        together with one Lim Jessie and in the furtherance of their common
                        intention, trafficked in 25.07g of diamorphine on 4 April 2007 at
                        Block 209, Serangoon Central, Singapore by giving it to
                    Koh.
We disclosed these two charges to both parties and
                    indicated that they could similarly submit on “the relevance and/or
                    effect (if any) of these charges”.[note: 12] As for the other 19 of the
                    remaining 21 charges against Chia, we were unable to see their relevance,
                    much less their materiality, to the substantive issue of discrimination raised
                    by Yong in this Motion as they apparently contained no reference to him at all.
                    These 19 charges were therefore not disclosed to the parties.
The procedural issue: Whether this court should hear this
                Motion
15     Before we address the substantive issue raised
                    by Mr Ravi in this Motion, we first consider the Prosecution’s
                    objection to this court hearing this Motion on the ground that Yong could have
                    raised his allegation of breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution at any of
                    the three earlier stages of the proceedings involving him (ie, at his trial, at his appeal against his sentence on the
                    ground that the MDP imposed under the MDA was unconstitutional and in his
                    application for leave to bring judicial review proceedings in respect of the
                    integrity of the clemency process), but had failed to do so.
16     Mr Ravi’s response to the
                    Prosecution’s objection was that the law (ie, the legal position on the relationship between Arts 12(1)
                    and 35(8) of the Constitution) underwent a significant review and clarification
                    as a result of Ramalingam, and that Yong’s
                    legal position was directly impacted on by the court’s re-evaluation of
                    previous decisions in that judgment. Yong thus acted reasonably in filing this
                    Motion in reliance on the principles set out in the most recent judicial
                    pronouncement on this area of the law.[note: 13] Mr Ravi contended that it was
                    not correct to say that Yong had three earlier opportunities to raise his
                    present arguments on Art 12(1) of the Constitution because he did not then
                    have the benefit of this court’s judgment in Ramalingam.
17     Before we consider the respective arguments of
                    the Prosecution and Mr Ravi, it would be useful to revisit our decision in
                        Ramalingam. The applicant in that case
                    (“Ramalingam”) met one Sundar Arujunan (“Sundar”) at
                    a temple at Sungei Kadut Avenue, Singapore. Sundar placed a sports bag
                    containing cannabis and cannabis mixture on the back seat of Ramalingam’s
                    car. The two men then drove off in the same car. After some time, Sundar
                    alighted from the car. Both men were separately arrested shortly afterwards.
                    Sundar was charged with and prosecuted for non-capital drug trafficking offences, with the amount of drugs
                    specified in the charges quantified at just below the threshold carrying the
                    MDP. Sundar pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 20 years’
                    imprisonment and 24 strokes of the cane. At Ramalingam’s subsequent trial
                    for capital drug trafficking charges, Sundar
                    testified against him. Although Sundar turned hostile on the stand, the
                    Prosecution successfully applied under s 147(3) of the Evidence Act
                    (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed) to admit his previous inconsistent statement and
                    substituted it for his oral evidence. Ramalingam was convicted and sentenced to
                    death. He then applied to this court to set aside his conviction on the ground
                    that the Prosecution’s decision to bring capital charges against him while
                    prosecuting Sundar for non-capital charges was a breach of Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution. We dismissed the application and enunciated the following
                    principles:
(a)     The exercise of the prosecutorial
                        discretion under Art 35(8) of the Constitution is subject to judicial
                        review. The rule of law requires that all legal powers, including
                        constitutional powers, be subject to limits, and it is the court’s
                        constitutional role to ensure that those limits are observed (see Ramalingam at [43] and [51]).
(b)     The exercise of the prosecutorial discretion is subject to judicial
                        review on two grounds, viz: (i) abuse of
                        power (ie, an exercise of power in bad faith
                        for an extraneous purpose); and (ii) breach of constitutional rights
                        (see Law Society of Singapore v Tan Guat Neo
                            Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239 at [149], which
                        was approved in Ramalingam at [51]).
(c)     Article 12(1) of the Constitution requires
                        that like cases must be treated alike in the context of the classification
                        of offences in legislation. In contrast, in the context of the exercise of
                        the prosecutorial discretion, Art 12(1) only entails that the
                        Prosecution must give unbiased consideration to every offender and must
                        avoid taking into account any irrelevant considerations. In the case of a
                        single offender, this would suffice to ensure that like cases are treated
                        alike, ie, to ensure compliance with
                        Art 12(1) (see Ramalingam
                            at [51], applying the
                        principle laid down by the Privy Council in Teh Cheng Poh
                            v Public Prosecutor [1979] 1 MLJ 50
                            (“Teh Cheng
                    Poh”)).
(d)     Where several offenders are involved in the same criminal enterprise,
                        Art 12(1) permits the Prosecution to consider various factors in
                        deciding which offenders’ cases are alike (if any) and should
                        therefore be treated alike. These factors include, inter
                            alia, the available evidence, public interest considerations,
                        the personal circumstances of the offender and the degree of co-operation of
                        the offender with the law enforcement authorities. Where these factors apply
                        differently to different offenders, this would justify differential
                        treatment among them as their cases would not
                        be alike for the purposes of Art 12(1) (see Ramalingam at [24], [52] and
                        [63]). However, differential treatment would not be justified if these factors do not apply differently to different offenders. In other
                        words, differential treatment of offenders involved in the same criminal
                        enterprise must be justifiable by reference to relevant differences between
                        the offenders.
(e)     The court will presume that the Prosecution has exercised its discretion
                        lawfully (ie, in accordance with the
                        requirements of the law) by reason of the separation of powers (see
                            Ramalingam at [44]–[46]).
(f)     The AG is under no obligation to give reasons for the
                        exercise of his prosecutorial discretion in prosecuting an offender for any
                        offence (see Ramalingam
                        at [74]–[78]).
(g)     Where an offender alleges that the exercise of the
                        prosecutorial discretion to prosecute him for an offence is in breach of his
                        constitutional rights, the burden lies on him to produce evidence of a
                            prima facie breach of such rights. In
                        relation to Art 12(1), a mere difference in the offences which
                        different offenders in the same criminal enterprise are prosecuted for will
                        not in itself be sufficient evidence of such a prima
                            facie breach (see Ramalingam
                        at [70]–[71]).
(h)     If the offender establishes a prima
                            facie breach of Art 12(1), the Prosecution will then be
                        required to justify its prosecutorial decision to the court, failing which,
                        it will be held to be in breach of Art 12(1) (see Ramalingam at [28]).
(i)     If the Prosecution provides some explanation for its decision, the
                        court will then decide, based on the evidence on record and the arguments on
                        both sides, whether the offender has rebutted the presumption of legality,
                            ie, whether he has persuaded the court
                        that the Prosecution has indeed breached Art 12(1) (see Ramalingam at [73]).
18     Having regard to the principles established in
                        Ramalingam, we rejected the
                    Prosecution’s argument that Yong should not be heard on this Motion. As we
                    noted in Ramalingam (at [17]), we decided to hear the substantive
                    matter in that case because it was necessary to clarify the constitutional
                    relationship between Arts 12(1) and 35(8) of the Constitution in the public
                    interest. Before our decision in that case, the legal position in Singapore
                        vis-à-vis that issue was unclear. In Ramalingam, we observed (at [32] and [36]) that the two Court of Appeal decisions which dealt with
                    allegations of breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution vis-à-vis prosecutorial decisions made in relation to two
                    co-offenders involved in the same criminal enterprise (viz, Sim Min Teck v Public
                        Prosecutor [1987] SLR(R) 65 (“Sim Min Teck”) and Thiruselvam s/o
                        Nagaratnam v Public Prosecutor [2001] 1 SLR(R) 362
                        (“Thiruselvam”)) merely applied
                    the principles laid down in Teh Cheng Poh without
                    taking into account the fact that that case involved a single offender, and not
                    co-offenders engaged in the same criminal enterprise. Teh
                        Cheng Poh did not engage Art 12(1) of the Constitution in
                    the same way that Sim Min Teck, Thiruselvam and Ramalingam, all of
                    which concerned co-offenders involved in the same criminal enterprise,
                    did.
19     In our view, the present case has two features
                    which distinguish it from Sim Min Teck, Thiruselvam and Ramalingam. The first is that Chia, who is alleged to be
                    Yong’s boss and supplier as well as the kingpin of the operation to import
                    controlled drugs into Singapore, appears to be a more culpable offender than
                    Yong (who was only a mule), and is liable to be prosecuted together with Yong if
                    he committed the same offence as that committed by Yong or abetted Yong’s
                    commission of that offence. The second feature is that the Prosecution has
                    discontinued (inter alia) three capital charges
                    against Chia even though, according to Yong, Chia was not only a co-offender in
                    the same criminal enterprise but also the more culpable offender as Chia was his
                    boss and supplier as well as the kingpin of the operation to bring controlled
                    drugs to Singapore. Further, Yong’s arguments in this Motion are based
                    substantially on the principles which we recently clarified and enunciated in
                        Ramalingam, and Yong filed this Motion without
                    any delay approximately two weeks after the judgment in Ramalingam was delivered. In the circumstances, we decided to
                    hear this Motion.
The substantive issue: Whether the AG’s prosecutorial decision
                in respect of Yong was in breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution
20     We turn now to the underlying substantive
                    issue raised in this Motion, viz, whether the
                    AG’s decision to prosecute Yong for a capital offence in the factual
                    matrix described above was a breach of Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution.
21     Mr Ravi argues that the said decision was
                    in breach of Art 12(1) because the AG:
(a)     failed to give consideration to all
                        the relevant factors;
(b)     took into account irrelevant considerations; and
(c)     failed to give unbiased consideration
                        to all the offenders concerned (for the purposes of this Motion, Yong and
                        Chia).
22     Before we examine these arguments, it would be
                    useful to first emphasise that a DNAQ of a charge against an offender does not
                    prevent the AG from prosecuting the same offender for the discontinued charge or
                    any other charges at a future time. This can be seen from s 239 of the now
                    repealed Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 1985 Rev Ed) (“the
                    CPC (Cap 68)”), the provision in force at the time of the DNAQ of
                    the 26 charges against Chia. Section 239 reads as follows:

Person once convicted or acquitted
                            not to be tried again for offence on same
                        facts


239.—(1) A person who has once been tried by a court of competent
                        jurisdiction for an offence and convicted or
                            acquitted of that offence shall, while the conviction
                            or acquittal remains in force, not be liable to be tried again for the
                            same offence ...
...
The dismissal of a complaint or the discharge of the
                            accused is not an acquittal for the purposes of this
                        section.
[emphasis added]
We should add that s 239 of the CPC (Cap 68) is in pari materia with its successor provision, s 244
                    of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (Act 15 of 2010).
23     In Dorai Manickam alias
                        Davis v Rex [1936] MLJ 209 at 212D, the Straits
                    Settlements Court of Criminal Appeal stated (in relation to the then equivalent
                    of s 239 of the CPC (Cap 68)):
It may be well to point out how carefully our Criminal Procedure Code
                        differentiates between an order of mere “discharge” and one of
                        “acquittal.” Where there is an order of
                        “acquittal” the order of discharge follows as a matter of
                        course but the bare order of “discharge” is that appropriate
                        to cases where the Court intends to make no decision “on the
                        merits.”
Unlike the situation where an offender has a discontinuance amounting
                    to an acquittal (“DAQ”) recorded for a charge against him or is
                    convicted of a lesser charge than a co-offender involved in the same criminal
                    enterprise (see, eg, Ramalingam, where Sundar, the co-offender, was prosecuted for
                    and convicted of non-capital drug trafficking charges), in the present case, the
                    DNAQ of the 26 charges against Chia does not provide him with any immunity
                    from being prosecuted in the future for some or all of those discontinued
                    charges. This is a material factor which undermines substantially the legal
                    basis on which Yong claims that he has been discriminated against by the
                    Prosecution. We will return to this point later in this judgment.
Failure to give consideration to all the relevant factors
24     We now consider the first limb of Yong’s
                    complaint of breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution (“the first
                    limb of Yong’s complaint”), namely, that the AG failed to consider
                    all the relevant factors relating to his case. Specifically, it is argued that
                    the AG overlooked the following considerations in prosecuting Yong for a capital
                    offence while not prosecuting Chia for the same offence or any other offence
                    under the MDA:
(a)     Chia had instigated Yong to
                        transport controlled drugs to Singapore, and had also been identified as the
                        boss of the Drug Syndicate by Yong in his written statement. In addition,
                        Chia had been considered sufficiently culpable to be detained indefinitely
                        under the CLTPA.
(b)     Yong was a compellable witness and the Prosecution could have called
                        him to give evidence against Chia, the more culpable party. Accordingly,
                        Yong’s unwillingness to identify and testify against Chia in court did
                        not support the Prosecution’s decision to apply for a DNAQ of the
                        26 charges against Chia.
(c)     Yong had provided a high degree of co-operation in
                        identifying Chia, and had sought assurances for the safety of his family and
                        himself in doing so.
(d)     There was sufficiently strong evidence against Chia in the form of:
                        (i) the evidence used to support the 26 charges brought against
                        him; (ii) the evidence already obtained from Yong; (iii) the
                        evidence that would be available from Yong if he were called as a witness;
                        (iv) the evidence obtained from the Malaysian authorities who handed
                        Chia over to the CNB; and (v) the intelligence obtained from other
                        members of the Drug Syndicate.
(e)     Yong had mitigating factors in his favour such as his
                        young age, his relatively minor role in the operation to transport
                        controlled drugs to Singapore and his low level of
                    sophistication.
(f)     It
                        was not the policy of the law to apply the death penalty to less culpable
                        parties who were mere conduits.
(g)     Yong could have been induced to give evidence against
                        Chia in exchange for the Prosecution preferring a non-capital charge against
                        him (Yong).
25     We are unable to accept any of these
                    arguments, some of which are mere assertions and others, contrary to the
                    evidence. These arguments are insufficient to support Yong’s contention
                    that the AG failed to take into account the aforesaid considerations (in so far
                    as they are relevant) in prosecuting him for the capital offence which he was
                    subsequently convicted of whilst not prosecuting Chia for any offence under the
                    MDA at all. In our view, Yong has not discharged the burden of proving that the
                    AG abused his prosecutorial power or exercised it in a way that was an unlawful
                    discrimination against him vis-à-vis Chia in the
                    context of Art 12(1) of the Constitution. Our specific comments on the
                    above arguments by Yong are as follows:
(a)     Points (a) and (d) are relevant
                        only if Chia’s alleged instigation of Yong in Johor Baru to transport
                        controlled drugs to Singapore (assuming this allegation is factually proved
                        in court) constituted an offence under the MDA. As we will explain
                            at [40]–[47] below, such instigation was, as a matter
                        of law, not an offence under the MDA.
(b)     With respect to points (b) and (g), even though Yong
                        was a compellable witness against Chia, the AG had a discretion whether or
                        not to call Yong as a prosecution witness to testify against Chia.
                        Yong’s assertion that he was not prepared to identify (and by
                        implication, testify against) Chia in court as he was fearful of doing so
                            (see [8] above) would have been
                        relevant to the Prosecution’s assessment of Yong’s reliability
                        as a potential prosecution witness. Furthermore, Yong has not shown us how
                        his testimony (assuming that he was prepared to testify against Chia) would
                        have helped the Prosecution to secure the conviction of Chia with respect to
                        the capital charges against Chia, given that two of those charges (viz, the two charges mentioned at [14] above) were unconnected with Yong while
                        the capital charge which did relate to Yong (viz, the capital charge of instigating Yong to transport
                        61.36g of diamorphine to Singapore (see [9] above)) did not in law amount to an offence under the
                        MDA (see [40]–[47] below).
(c)     With respect to point (c), Yong’s own
                        statements to the CNB showed that he did not wish to identify (and by
                        implication, testify against) Chia in court and also did not wish the CNB to
                        let Chia know that he had identified Chia as the person who had asked him on
                        12 June 2007 to deliver the “gifts” to
                    Singapore.
(d)     With
                        respect to point (e), the evidence clearly shows that the AG did
                        consider the said mitigating factors before deciding to prosecute Yong for a
                        capital offence (see [10]
                        above).
(e)     With
                        respect to point (f), the alleged policy of the law is not borne out by
                        the debates in Parliament when the MDP was introduced in 1975 for certain
                        drug trafficking offences (see [31]
                        below). Furthermore, the evidence clearly shows that the AG did take into
                        account Yong’s personal circumstances and was of the opinion that he
                        was sufficiently culpable to be prosecuted for a capital
                    offence.
The fact that the 26 charges against Chia were
                discontinued
26     For the purposes of the first limb of
                    Yong’s complaint, Mr Ravi has placed great emphasis on the
                    Prosecution’s application for a DNAQ of the 26 charges against Chia
                    as evidence of a breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution. Mr Ravi
                    argues that the Prosecution must have had sufficient evidence against Chia as,
                    otherwise, it would not have charged him with 26 offences under the MDA and then
                    amended one charge after two months. In this connection, Mr Ravi relies on
                    a press release by the Attorney-General’s Chambers (“the
                    AGC”) dated 20 January 2012, where the AGC asserted that each of its
                    prosecutorial decisions “is made carefully, with full consideration of
                    the facts and due regard to what is required in the public
                        interest”,[note: 14] and
                    that in many cases, there are multiple levels of review, including personal
                    review by the AG himself.[note: 15] Mr Ravi
                    accordingly argues that the discontinuance of the 26 charges against Chia
                    shows that Yong was discriminated against in spite of the fact that he was less
                    culpable than Chia in relation to the operation to bring controlled drugs to
                    Singapore.
27     We are unable to accept this argument. The AG
                    may, under Art 35(8) of the Constitution, discontinue any prosecution at
                    his discretion. The relevant issue in connection with the DNAQ of the
                    26 charges against Chia is whether the Prosecution had a valid reason to
                    seek the DNAQ. It may be noted that the Prosecution did not seek a DAQ. The
                    evidence on record shows that the Prosecution decided to seek the DNAQ because
                    of “difficulty of the evidence”[note: 16]
                        (see [11] above), ie, it did not think it had sufficient evidence to prove
                    that Chia was legally guilty of any of the offences set out in the
                    26 charges. This can be seen from the fact that at the pre-trial conference
                    held on 13 May 2008 vis-à-vis the capital
                    charges proffered against Yong and Chia, the Prosecution informed the DJ that
                    having “had time to consider [the] evidence against [Chia]”, it
                    would be applying to discontinue the capital charges against Chia
                        (see [14] above). Similarly, during
                    Yong’s trial, the Prosecution informed the Trial Judge (in response to his
                    query about whether any charges had been brought against Chia) that Chia had
                    initially been charged, but a DNAQ had been sought and obtained in respect of
                    the charges due to “difficulty of the evidence”[note: 17]
                        (see [11] above).
28     There is no evidence to suggest that the AG
                    made the decision to prosecute Yong but not Chia despite considering Yong to be a less culpable
                    offender than Chia. Instead, the evidence on record shows very clearly that the
                    AG decided to apply for a DNAQ of the 26 charges against Chia because he
                    did not think the Prosecution had sufficient evidence to secure Chia’s
                    conviction of any of those charges. This was a decision which was wholly within
                    the AG’s discretion to make, and unless the contrary is shown, the court
                    must proceed on the basis that the AG took into account all the relevant
                    considerations in making that decision. As we reiterated in Ramalingam, the court will presume the legality or regularity of
                    the AG’s exercise of his prosecutorial discretion. This principle applies
                    equally to a decision to discontinue a prosecution, regardless of whether or not
                    the discontinuance amounts to an acquittal. Indeed, in general, the court has no
                    power to prevent the AG from discontinuing any prosecution. However, if the
                    exercise of such power results in a breach of Art 12(1) of the
                    Constitution, then the court can intervene, but not otherwise. The burden is on
                    an applicant, such as Yong, to produce some evidence of arbitrary or
                    discriminatory conduct by the AG before the court will intervene and call upon
                    him to justify his decision. No such evidence has been produced in the present
                    case. Instead, as we have just stated, the evidence on record is to the
                    contrary. We are thus unable to accept Yong’s argument that the mere
                    discontinuance of the 26 charges against Chia was per
                        se an arbitrary or discriminatory exercise of the prosecutorial
                    discretion, especially when the discontinuance did not amount to an
                    acquittal.
Yong’s compellability to testify
29     The second main argument made by Mr Ravi
                    in connection with the first limb of Yong’s complaint is that since Yong
                    was a compellable witness, his unwillingness to identify and testify against
                    Chia in court for fear of reprisals to himself and his family did not support
                    the Prosecution’s decision to seek a DNAQ of the 26 charges against
                    Chia. Yong, if called as a witness, would presumably have testified against Chia
                    and could have provided the necessary evidence to convict Chia. Ms Mavis
                    Chionh (“Ms Chionh”), counsel for the Prosecution, does not
                    dispute that Yong was a compellable witness against Chia, but submits, in
                    response to Mr Ravi’s argument, that this factor was not the critical
                    consideration for the Prosecution in deciding whether or not to proceed against
                    Chia because that decision could not be and was not made purely on the basis of
                    Yong’s compellability as a witness alone. Instead, that decision could
                    only be and was only made after considering various other factors, including
                    whether there was any objective evidence to corroborate Yong’s allegation
                    concerning Chia’s role in the Drug Syndicate.
30     In our view, Yong’s argument –
                    viz, that since he was a compellable witness, his
                    unwillingness to identify and testify against Chia in court did not support the
                    Prosecution’s decision to apply for a DNAQ of the 26 charges against
                    Chia – has no merit. The prosecutorial discretion in Art 35(8) of the
                    Constitution to proceed with or discontinue a prosecution necessarily implies
                    that the Prosecution has a discretion to choose who to call as a witness to
                    support its case. There may be many legitimate reasons why the Prosecution may
                    not wish to call a particular person as a witness, examples of which would be
                    the lack of credibility of his evidence and/or the immateriality of his evidence
                    (despite its apparent credibility) apropos the charges being pursued by the
                    Prosecution. In the present case, Yong’s unwillingness to identify and
                    testify against Chia in court for fear of reprisals to himself and his family
                    would clearly have been a relevant consideration in the AG’s decision on
                    whether or not to prosecute Chia even though Yong could have been compelled to
                    testify in any criminal proceedings against Chia, and even if his testimony were
                    credible or material to the charges against Chia. The mere fact that the AG
                    ultimately decided not to prosecute Chia does not necessarily mean that the AG
                    did not take Yong’s compellability as a witness into account in
                    determining whether or not to prosecute Chia. Further, this factor was not
                    necessarily the only relevant consideration which the Prosecution had to take
                    into account. In this regard, we accept Ms Chionh’s submission that
                    there were various other factors which the Prosecution had to consider as well
                        (see [29] above). We thus reject
                    Yong’s argument that the mere fact of the Prosecution’s failure to
                    compel him to testify against Chia is evidence of an improper exercise of the
                    prosecutorial discretion by the AG in applying for a DNAQ of the 26 charges
                    against Chia.
The purpose of the MDP in the MDA
31     Mr Ravi’s third main point in
                    relation to the first limb of Yong’s complaint is that the MDP is not
                    intended to be invoked against offenders who are mere conduits in a drug
                    trafficking syndicate since their culpability would be low. Mr Ravi points
                    out that when the earliest predecessor of the MDA (viz, the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (Act 5 of 1973)
                    (“the 1973 Act”)) was amended in 1975 to introduce the MDP, the
                    then Minister for Home Affairs and Education (“the Minister”)
                    stated that the MDP was “not intended to sentence petty morphine and
                    heroin pedlars to death” (see Singapore Parliamentary
                        Debates, Official Report (20 November 1975) vol 34
                        (“Singapore Parliamentary Debates
                    vol 34”) at col 1382). In our view, the Minister’s
                    statement has been quoted out of context by Mr Ravi as it was made to
                    explain why the threshold quantity of diamorphine needed to attract the MDP
                        (ie, 15g) was set at a level much higher than
                    the daily requirements of a drug addict. What the Minister said was as follows
                    (see Singapore Parliamentary Debates vol 34
                    at cols 1382–1383):
Under the Misuse of Drugs Act, 1973 [viz,
                        the 1973 Act], trafficking is defined as selling, giving, administering,
                        transporting, sending, delivering and distributing drugs. It is not intended to sentence petty morphine and heroin pedlars to
                            death. It is, therefore, necessary to specify the quantity by
                        weight, exceeding which the death penalty will be imposed. The weights refer to the pure substance. For heroin any
                            quantity in which the pure heroin content is above 15 grammes will
                            attract the death penalty. Such an amount when mixed with adulterants is
                            sufficient to spike some 500 heroin cigarettes. One heroin-spiked
                            cigarette is usually shared by a few beginners. Thus
                        15 grammes of pure heroin can do considerable damage and ruin a very
                        large number of our youths. ...

Let me also allay the fear of those who may have the
                            impression that drug addicts might inadvertently be hanged as a result
                            of their having in their possession a controlled drug which contains
                            more than 15 grammes of pure heroin. The heroin that is
                        commonly used by drug abusers and addicts in Singapore is referred to as
                        Heroin No. 3. This is currently sold in little plastic phials at $32
                        per phial. It is usually mixed with other substances in the proportions of
                        about 40% pure heroin and 60% adulterants. Each phial contains about 0.8
                        grammes of the mixed substance. Therefore, a person will
                            only be in danger of receiving the death penalty if he has in his
                            possession some 37.5 grammes of adulterated heroin which contains
                            40% of pure heroin. This works out to 47 phials. And it costs about
                            $1,500 to buy this amount at the current retail price.

It is, therefore, most unlikely for a person who is in
                            possession of so much heroin to be only a drug addict and not a
                            trafficker. 
An addict uses between half
                            to one phial of heroin a day
. Even if he
                            is rich and can afford it, he does not buy more than two or three phials
                            at a time for fear of being arrested and convicted as a
                            trafficker.
[emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
Our ruling on the first limb of Yong’s complaint 
32     For the reasons outlined above
                        (at [25]–[31]), we find that Yong has failed to produce any
                    evidence to show a prima facie case of breach of
                    Art 12(1) of the Constitution in the form of the AG failing to consider all
                    the relevant factors relating to his case. Some of the factors which
                    Mr Ravi claims are relevant (as set out at [24] above) are either misguided (eg, point (f) of [24]
                    above) or not borne out by the evidence (eg,
                    point (c) of [24] above, in so far as
                    Yong was unwilling to identify and testify against Chia in court). Of the
                    remaining factors, Mr Ravi’s contention that the Prosecution did not
                    consider these factors is, in our view, nothing more than an ex post facto attempt to “rationalise” (from
                    Yong’s perspective) why Yong was prosecuted for a capital offence while
                    the 26 charges against Chia (including the three capital charges) were
                    discontinued pursuant to a DNAQ – there is absolutely no evidence that the
                    Prosecution failed to consider these factors
                        at all.
33     In our view, the first limb of Yong’s
                    complaint is fatally undermined by the evidence on record. This is not a case where the Prosecution did not charge Chia at all or
                        charged Chia with only non-capital offences. As mentioned
                    earlier, the Prosecution brought 26 charges against Chia, three of which
                    were capital charges. The evidence on record shows that the Prosecution applied
                    to discontinue the 26 charges only after reconsidering
                        the evidence against Chia, and even then, only on the condition
                    that the discontinuance of the charges would not
                    amount to an acquittal (see [11] and
                        [14] above). Given the right
                    circumstances in the future, Chia can still be prosecuted for (inter alia) those discontinued charges which involve
                    Yong, in which event, Yong’s testimony may be material in securing
                    Chia’s conviction of those charges. The evidence on record also shows that
                    the Prosecution’s decision to apply for a DNAQ of the 26 charges
                    against Chia was not taken in haste. There was a significant period of time that
                    elapsed between the laying of the three capital charges against Chia (in August
                    2007) and the Prosecution’s application for their discontinuance (in May
                    2008). Mr Ravi’s argument is not that the Prosecution deliberately
                    discriminated against Yong by applying for a DNAQ of the 26 charges against
                    Chia, but that the Prosecution’s application for a DNAQ of those charges
                    is evidence that there was such discrimination. We reject this kind of
                        “post hoc ergo propter hoc”
                    reasoning. Contrary to what Mr Ravi contends, the evidence on record shows
                    that the Prosecution, after reassessing the evidence which it had against Chia,
                    believed that it had valid reasons to apply for a DNAQ of the 26 charges
                    against him. In the circumstances, it is not possible to infer from this
                    decision by the Prosecution any discrimination against Yong contrary to
                    Art 12(1) of the Constitution.
Taking into account irrelevant considerations
34     The second limb of Yong’s complaint of
                    breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution is that the AG took into account
                    irrelevant considerations in deciding to prosecute him but not Chia.
                    Specifically, Mr Ravi argues that the Prosecution “took into account
                    an irrelevant consideration in regarding the expression of [Yong’s]
                    concern for the safety of himself and his family as a relevant
                        factor”.[note: 18] This argument appears to be based on
                    two letters dated 25 October 2011 and 7 February 2012 written by the
                    Prosecution to Mr Ravi (collectively, “the Two
                        Letters”),[note: 19] in
                    which reference was made to Yong’s refusal to identify and testify against
                    Chia in court. According to Mr Ravi, the Two Letters suggest that the lack
                    of sufficient evidence to prosecute Chia was due to Yong’s refusal to
                    identify and testify against Chia in court. Mr Ravi submits that this
                    suggestion is inappropriate because, as explained in Yong’s affidavit
                    dated 5 March 2012, Yong expressed the aforesaid concern about his
                    family’s and his own safety at a time when he did not know whether or not
                    Chia was in police custody and, thus, whether or not Chia was in a position
                    where he could have harmed him (Yong) and his family.[note: 20] In this regard, we note that
                    the evidence on record shows that Mr Lim, Yong’s then defence
                    counsel, was informed by the Prosecution during the trial (specifically, on
                    30 September 2008 and 2 October 2008) that Chia had been arrested and
                    was in the custody of the CNB. Hence, with Chia in police custody by then, Yong
                    should no longer have had any fear of reprisals and could have volunteered to
                    assist the Prosecution in any proceedings brought against Chia.
35     The Prosecution has made two arguments in
                    reply. First, it argues that the Two Letters cannot be construed to mean that
                    the AG did indeed take into account Yong’s
                    refusal to identify and testify against Chia in court in deciding to proceed
                    with the capital charge against Yong but not with the 26 charges against
                        Chia.[note: 21] Second, it argues that even if the AG did indeed take this factor into account,
                    it was not an irrelevant consideration because Yong’s expression of
                    concern for the safety of himself and his family was made in the context of his
                    statement on 3 July 2007 that he did not wish to identify (and by
                    implication, testify against) Chia in court[note: 22]
                        (see [8] above). This anxiety on
                    Yong’s part would have been relevant to the Prosecution’s assessment
                    of his state of mind and, thus, his reliability as a potential prosecution
                    witness against Chia.
36     We agree with both of the Prosecution’s
                    arguments on the Two Letters. There is nothing in the letter dated
                    25 October 2011 to suggest that Yong was prosecuted because he refused to
                    identify and testify against Chia in court. That letter was merely a response to
                    Mr Ravi’s query as to why Chia had not been called as a prosecution
                    witness at Yong’s trial.[note: 23] That
                    letter, viewed in its proper context, did not support Yong’s contention
                    that the AG did take into account his refusal to
                    identify and testify against Chia in court in deciding to prosecute him (Yong)
                    but not Chia. In other words, Yong was prosecuted not because he refused to
                    identify and testify against Chia in court, but because, in the
                    Prosecution’s assessment, he did commit the offence which he was charged
                    with. As for the letter dated 7 February 2012, it asked whether Yong was
                        “now willing and prepared to …
                    testify against Chia in court”[note: 24]
                    [emphasis added] given Yong’s earlier statement on 3 July 2007 that
                    he did not wish to identify (and by implication, testify against) Chia in court.
                    While that letter does shed some light on the matters considered by the AG in
                    making the prosecutorial decisions which were eventually made apropos Yong and
                    Chia, it does not assist Yong because, as was made clear by Mr Ravi in his
                    oral submissions, Yong’s allegation that the AG took into account
                    irrelevant considerations relates to the point in time when the AG applied to
                    discontinue the 26 charges against Chia pursuant to a DNAQ (ie, soon after 13 May 2008), and not to the
                    situation in February 2012.
Failure to give unbiased consideration to all the offenders
                concerned
37     The third and final limb of Yong’s
                    complaint of breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution is that the AG failed
                    to give unbiased consideration to him vis-à-vis
                    Chia. In this regard, Mr Ravi submits that there was an appearance of bias
                    on the Prosecution’s part because Chia, the mastermind behind the Drug
                    Syndicate against whom 26 charges were preferred, was ultimately not
                    prosecuted at all, whereas Yong, a youthful courier, was prosecuted for a
                    capital charge.[note: 25]
                    Mr Ravi contends that the AG’s explanation that there was
                    insufficient evidence against Chia to prosecute him “is unpersuasive
                    given the weight of the evidence”[note: 26] against Chia. The appearance
                    of bias, it is argued, is supported by the fact that in the Prosecution’s
                    letter to Mr Ravi dated 25 October 2011, the different treatment of
                    Yong and Chia was “actually blamed on”[note: 27]
                    Yong, specifically, on his refusal to identify and testify against Chia in
                    court.
38     In our view, the above submissions by
                    Mr Ravi have no factual basis and consist merely of bare assertions. The
                    evidence on record shows that the Prosecution’s decision to apply for a
                    DNAQ of the 26 charges against Chia was fully considered
                        (see [33] above). There is nothing
                    to indicate that one or some of the prosecutors or the CNB officers involved in
                    the investigations relating to Yong and Chia had a personal animus against Yong,
                    or had something to gain from a discontinuance of the 26 charges against
                    Chia. Indeed, the very fact that Chia was detained under the CLTPA is prima facie evidence that although the Prosecution had
                    reason to believe that Chia might have been involved in drug trafficking
                    activities in Singapore, it did not prosecute him because it was of the view
                    that it did not have sufficient evidence to convict him of any of the
                    26 charges brought against him (which charges consequently had to be
                    discontinued), and not because the AG, in the
                    exercise of his prosecutorial discretion, decided to “let Chia off
                        lightly”.[note: 28]
39     The AG has the responsibility to protect the
                    integrity of the prosecutorial process, which is vital to public confidence in
                    our criminal justice system and the rule of law. He has an obligation to
                    exercise his prosecutorial discretion impartially. This entails (inter alia) that the AG should prosecute an accused
                    person only if there is sufficient evidence to support the charge against him
                    and, conversely, should discontinue a prosecution if he concludes, after
                    reassessing the case against the accused, that there is no or little prospect of
                    securing a conviction. In the present case, even if the AG had mistakenly
                    exercised his prosecutorial discretion in applying to discontinue the
                    26 charges against Chia, it would not matter for the purposes of
                    determining the substantive issue before us. An error of judgment in the
                    exercise of a discretionary power is not evidence of bias or apparent bias. If
                    the AG did indeed make a mistake in this regard (which we are not in any way suggesting), he would no doubt re-open the case
                    against Chia and proceed to prosecute him for one or more of the offences set
                    out in the 26 charges (and/or any other offence under the MDA) if there is
                    sufficient evidence to support such a prosecution. In our view, the DNAQ of the
                    26 charges against Chia contradicts any allegation of discriminatory
                    prosecution of Yong for the offence which he committed.
Did Chia commit an offence under the MDA in instigating Yong in Johor
                Baru to transport controlled drugs to Singapore? 
40     Yong’s complaint that he has been
                    unlawfully discriminated against in breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution
                    is predicated on Chia having committed the offence of abetment under the MDA in
                    instigating him (Yong) in Johor Baru to transport controlled drugs to Singapore.
                    It is on this basis that Yong claims that his prosecution was discriminatory
                    because Chia was a more culpable offender, and yet, was let off by the
                    Prosecution as a result of its applying for and obtaining a DNAQ of (inter alia) the five charges of instigating Yong in
                    Johor Baru to transport controlled drugs to Singapore. The offence of abetment
                    in the MDA is set out in ss 12 and 13, which provide as follows:

Abetments and attempts
                            punishable as offences


12.    Any person who abets
                            the commission of or who attempts to commit or does any act preparatory
                            to, or in furtherance of, the commission of any offence under this Act
                            shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable on conviction to the
                            punishment provided for that offence.

Abetting or procuring
                            commission of offences outside
                                Singapore


13.    It shall be an offence for a
                            person —
(a)    to aid, abet,
                                counsel or procure the commission in any place
                                    outside Singapore of an offence punishable under a
                                corresponding law in force in that place; or
(b)    to do an act
                                preparatory to, or in furtherance of, an act outside Singapore which
                                if committed in Singapore would constitute an offence under this
                                Act.
[emphasis added]
41     During the hearing of this appeal on
                    14 March 2012, we raised the issue of whether Chia, in instigating Yong in
                        Johor Baru to transport controlled drugs to
                    Singapore, did indeed commit the offence of abetment under the MDA (“the
                    abetment issue”). We raised this issue because there is an established
                    rule of statutory interpretation that a domestic statute has no
                    extra-territorial effect unless it is expressed to have such effect, and that in
                    the absence of such express provision, acts committed outside the jurisdiction
                    are presumed not to constitute an offence under the relevant domestic statute
                    even if they would have amounted to an offence under that statute had they been
                    committed within the jurisdiction (see Public Prosecutor v
                        Pong Tek Yin [1990] 1 SLR(R) 543 at [16] and Public Prosecutor
                        v Taw Cheng Kong [1998] 2 SLR(R) 489
                    at [66]–[69]). As neither Mr Ravi nor Ms Chionh was fully
                    prepared to address the abetment issue at the hearing on 14 March 2012
                    itself, we gave them leave to file written submissions on the issue, on the
                    factual assumption that Chia did instigate Yong in Johor Baru on 12 June
                    2007 to bring controlled drugs to Singapore. We have examined their written
                    submissions in this regard, and our conclusions are as set out
                below.
42     In our view, construing s 12 of the MDA
                    on the basis of the rule of statutory interpretation mentioned at [41] above, this section clearly applies only to
                    an abetment within Singapore of an offence
                    committed within Singapore since nothing therein suggests that the abetment
                    contemplated applies to an abetment which occurs outside
                Singapore.
43     Construing s 13(a) of the MDA likewise on the basis of the aforesaid rule of
                    statutory interpretation, we agree with the Prosecution’s submission that
                    the phrase “any place outside Singapore” in that provision
                    qualifies the principal offence committed, in that the principal offence
                    contemplated is one that is “punishable under a corresponding law in
                    force in that place” [emphasis added]. In
                    other words, s 13(a) applies only to
                    “principal offences committed outside
                        Singapore”[note: 29] [emphasis in original]
                        (cf the principal offence in this case, which
                    was committed by Yong in Singapore). This in turn
                    raises the question of whether the act of aiding, abetting, counselling or
                    procuring the commission of the principal offence has to take place within
                    Singapore before such act falls within the terms of s 13(a). In our view, this question can be answered by reference to
                    the legislative history of this provision, which we consider
                below.
44     In this respect, we agree with the Prosecution
                    that the legislative history of s 13(a) of
                    the MDA indicates that it is intended to apply to an abetment within Singapore of the commission in a place outside Singapore
                    of an offence under a corresponding law in force in that place.[note: 30] The earliest
                    incarnation of s 13 of the MDA is s 32A of the Deleterious Drugs
                    Ordinance (No 124) (“the DDO”), which was introduced by
                    s 8 of the Deleterious Drugs Amendment Ordinance 1925 (No 6 of 1925)
                    (“the 1925 Amendment Ordinance”). Section 32A of the DDO
                    provided as follows:
Any person who in the Colony aids, abets,
                        counsels or procures the commission in any place outside the Colony of any
                        offence punishable under the provisions of any corresponding law in force in
                        that place or does any act preparatory to, or in
                            furtherance of, any act which if committed in the Colony
                        would constitute an offence against this Ordinance, shall be guilty of an
                        offence against this Ordinance. [emphasis added]
It can be seen from the above that s 32A of the DDO expressly
                    provided that only acts of abetment committed “in the Colony” [emphasis added] of principal offences
                    outside the Colony would be an offence. This interpretation of s 32A is
                    supported by the legislative intention behind its enactment. When s 32A was
                    introduced into the DDO, the then AG stated (see Proceedings
                        of the Legislative Council of the Straits Settlements for the Year
                        1924 (30 June 1924) at p B52):
Clause 8 [viz, the clause which
                        subsequently became s 8 of the 1925 Amendment Ordinance] is new. That
                        provides for the punishment of abetment of a crime in regard to deleterious
                        drugs committed in the Colony or against the law in some other country.
                            That is one of the new provisions at Home. It is
                            rather an innovation to make it a crime
                            in one place if you abet the transgression
                            of the law of another country,
                        but the deleterious drugs question is so international in character that it
                        has been thought necessary that a provision of this sort should be inserted.
                        ... [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
The phrase “in the Colony” (or its equivalent when
                    Singapore became independent) was deleted when the earliest predecessor of the
                    MDA (viz, the 1973 Act) was enacted in 1973, but
                    no explanation was given. In our view, this deletion is insufficient evidence
                    that Parliament intended to alter the effect of the then equivalent of
                    s 32A of the DDO (viz, s 11 of the 1973
                    Act) because the 1973 Act was, inter alia, a
                    consolidating Act (see Singapore Parliamentary Debates,
                        Official Report (16 February 1973) vol 32 at
                    cols 414–415).
45     For the same reason as that set out in the
                    preceding paragraph, s 13(b) of the MDA has
                    to be construed in the same manner as s 13(a), ie, s 13(b) applies only to preparatory acts done within Singapore. The
                    legislative history of what is now ss 13(a)
                    and 13(b) of the MDA shows that they were
                    originally enacted as one composite section, ie,
                    s 32A of the DDO. Because the key phrase “in the Colony”
                    applied equally to both limbs of s 32A of the DDO, both limbs of s 13
                    of the MDA must likewise be interpreted in the same manner, ie, to the effect that ss 13(a) and 13(b) do not apply to acts
                    of abetment and preparatory acts occurring outside Singapore.
46     In this connection, we should mention that the
                    Penal Code (Cap 224, 1985 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”) was
                    amended in 2008 to address the kind of abetment that Chia is alleged to have
                    carried out with respect to the offence committed by Yong. Section 108B of
                    the Penal Code, which came into operation on 1 February 2008, provides as
                    follows:

Abetment outside Singapore of
                            an offence in Singapore


108B.    A person abets an
                            offence within the meaning of this Code who abets an offence committed
                            in Singapore notwithstanding that any or all of the acts constituting
                            the abetment were done outside Singapore.
As Chia’s alleged instigation of Yong took place in Johor
                    Baru on 12 June 2007, s 108B of the Penal Code would not apply to the
                    abetment issue. Whether or not s 108B of the Penal Code applies to the
                    abetment of offences under the MDA (having regard to the specific provisions on
                    abetment in ss 12 and 13 of the MDA) is not an issue before us, and we
                    therefore express no opinion on it.
47     Given our interpretation of the scope of
                    ss 12 and 13 of the MDA, it follows that the prosecution of Chia for the
                    five charges of instigating Yong in Johor Baru to transport controlled drugs to
                    Singapore would have failed if those charges had not been discontinued as the
                    alleged acts of instigation (even if they are factually proved in court) all
                    took place outside Singapore. That being the case, it would be an additional
                    reason for this court to hold that the DNAQ of (inter
                        alia) those charges cannot possibly support any argument that
                    Yong’s right to equality before the law and equal protection of the law
                    under Art 12(1) of the Constitution has been infringed.
The orders sought by Yong in this Motion
48     In the light of our findings on the facts and
                    the law, we will now deal with the orders sought by Yong in this Motion, which
                    we set out at the beginning of this judgment. First, there is absolutely no
                    legal basis for this court to re-open its decision upholding Yong’s
                    conviction of the capital offence which he was charged with. At the point in
                    time when Yong was charged with that capital offence, the only issue before the
                    court was whether or not, on the evidence, he was guilty of the offence. The
                    Trial Judge heard the evidence and convicted Yong on the evidence. Yong was
                    properly convicted on the evidence, and at all stages of the many proceedings he
                    has since brought before this court, he has not denied that he is guilty of the
                    aforesaid offence.
49     Yong’s case in this Motion, brought long
                    after his conviction, is that he should not have been prosecuted for a capital
                    offence at all as this constituted a breach of his constitutional right to
                    equality before the law and equal protection of the law under Art 12(1) of
                    the Constitution. He argues that there was such a breach because Chia, his
                    co-offender in the same criminal enterprise, was an even more culpable offender
                    but was let off by the AG as a result of the Prosecution applying for and
                    obtaining a DNAQ of the 26 charges against Chia, even though the
                    discontinuance did not amount to an acquittal. We are of the view that there is
                    absolutely no merit in this argument for the reasons we have given earlier,
                        ie:
(a)     The 26 charges against Chia
                        were discontinued pursuant to a DNAQ, ie, the
                        discontinuance of those charges did not amount
                        to an acquittal. Thus, Chia is still liable to be prosecuted for those
                        charges (and/or other new charges) if the AG has sufficient evidence to
                        bring such a prosecution.
(b)     The AG applied to discontinue the 26 charges against
                        Chia because, in his judgment, there was insufficient evidence to convict
                        Chia of any of the charges, and not because he decided, in the exercise of
                        his prosecutorial decision, to “let Chia off
                            lightly”.[note: 31]
(c)     Yong was prosecuted for the capital
                        offence which he was subsequently convicted of not because he refused to
                        identify and testify against Chia in court, nor because of any
                        discrimination against him (Yong), but because the Prosecution considered
                        that he was guilty of that offence.
(d)     Chia’s alleged instigation of Yong in Johor Baru to
                        transport controlled drugs to Singapore (assuming such instigation is
                        factually proved in court) did not in law constitute an offence under the
                        MDA and, thus, the prosecution of Chia for the five instigation charges
                        brought against him could not have succeeded.
50     In Ramalingam,
                    we observed at [68] that if Sundar had been charged with the same capital
                    offences as Ramalingam (the applicant in that case), Ramalingam’s
                    application could not have been brought because Ramalingam would then have had
                    no cause whatsoever to claim that he had been discriminated against contrary to
                    Art 12(1) of the Constitution. In the present case, the same observation
                    applies to Yong. Chia faced (inter alia) three
                    capital charges, all of which were discontinued without amounting to an
                    acquittal. As the DNAQ of (inter alia) those
                    charges was applied for by the Prosecution and granted by the court on the
                    ground of insufficient evidence against Chia, it is not possible for this court
                    to reject the basis on which the DNAQ was granted and infer that it was granted
                    with a view to discriminating against Yong. We should add that Mr Ravi has
                    not given a single coherent reason as to why the AG would have wanted to
                    discriminate against Yong if he had a bigger fish to fry.
51     The final point we wish to make is this. Even
                    if we were to find (contra our ruling
                        at [49]–[50] above) that Yong’s prosecution for a
                    capital offence was in breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution, we have no
                    power to set aside his conviction for that offence simply on the basis of a
                    breach of Art 12(1). This is because there is nothing wrong in law with the
                    conviction, and no fresh evidence has been adduced to show that the conviction
                    was a miscarriage of justice. Indeed, as we pointed out at [48] above, Yong has not denied that he is guilty
                    of the offence which he was convicted of. Thus, even if Yong’s prosecution
                    were indeed in breach of Art 12(1) (which is not the case here), the court’s power would be confined to
                    making a declaratory order to that effect. It would then be up to the AG to
                    decide what kind of action he should take to remedy the unequal position between
                    Yong and Chia in order to comply with Art 12(1).
Conclusion
52     For the reasons given above, we dismiss this
                    Motion as it has absolutely no merit both on the law and on the
                facts.
[note: 1]See the affidavit of Mr M Ravi dated
                                27 January 2012 (“Mr Ravi’s 27 Jan 2012
                                affidavit”) at
                para 5.[note: 2]See
                                Exhibit “YVK-2” of Yong’s affidavit dated
                                27 January 2012.[note: 3]See the Prosecution’s Bundle of
                                Documents (“the Prosecution’s BOD”) at
                                Tab A.[note: 4]See Exhibit “MR-2” of
                                Mr Ravi’s 27 Jan 2012
                        affidavit.[note: 5]Ibid.[note: 6]See the Prosecution’s BOD at
                                Tab 1.[note: 7]See the Prosecution’s BOD at
                            Tab 2.[note: 8]See the Prosecution’s BOD at
                                Tab 3.[note: 9]See the Prosecution’s BOD at
                                Tab 5.[note: 10]Ibid.[note: 11]See the
                                Supreme Court’s letter to the parties dated 14 March 2012
                                at para 3.[note: 12]See the
                                Supreme Court’s letter to the parties dated 15 March 2012
                                at para 3.[note: 13]See
                                Yong’s Further Skeletal Submissions at
                            para 6.[note: 14]See Yong’s Evidence of Lack of
                                Equality Core Bundle at Tab 9.[note: 15]Ibid.[note: 16]See
                                Exhibit “MR-2” of Mr Ravi’s
                                27 Jan 2012 affidavit.[note: 17]Ibid.[note: 18]See Yong’s Skeletal Submissions
                                dated 9 March 2012 (“Yong’s 9 Mar 2012
                                Skeletal Submissions”) at
                        para 17.[note: 19]See the Prosecution’s BOD at,
                                respectively, Tab 2 and Tab 5.[note: 20]See Yong’s affidavit dated 5 March 2012 at
                                para 20.[note: 21]See the Prosecution’s Further Skeletal
                                Arguments filed on 13 March 2012 at
                        para 24.[note: 22]See the
                                Prosecution’s Further Skeletal Arguments filed on
                                13 March 2012 at para 25.[note: 23]See the
                                Prosecution’s BOD at Tab 2.[note: 24]See the
                                Prosecution’s BOD at Tab 5.[note: 25]See Yong’s 9 Mar 2012
                                Skeletal Submissions at para 23.[note: 26]See
                                Yong’s 9 Mar 2012 Skeletal Submissions at
                                para 24.[note: 27]Ibid.[note: 28]See the Prosecution’s Skeletal
                                Arguments filed on 8 March 2012 at
                        para 39.[note: 29]See the Prosecution’s Further
                                Submissions on Abetment filed on 19 March 2012 (“the
                                Prosecution’s Abetment Submissions”) at
                                para 15.[note: 30]See the Prosecution’s Abetment Submissions at
                                paras 16–23.[note: 31]See the Prosecution’s
                                    Skeletal Arguments filed on 8 March 2012 at
                                    para 39.Copyright © Government of Singapore.
