


      Yong Vui Kong
      v
      Attorney-General
    [2011] SGCA 9Case Number:Civil Appeal No 144 of 2010Decision Date:04 April 2011Tribunal/Court:Court of AppealCoram:
      Chan Sek Keong CJ; 
      Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA; 
      V K Rajah JA
    Counsel Name(s):
      M Ravi (L F Violet Netto) for the appellant; 
      Aedit Abdullah, Low Siew Ling and Shawn Ho Hsi Ming (Attorney-General's Chambers) for the respondent.
    Parties:
      Yong Vui Kong — 
      Attorney-General
    
[LawNet Editorial Note: The decision from which this appeal arose is
                    reported at [2011] 1 SLR 1.]
                
4 April 2011Judgment reserved.

        Chan Sek Keong CJ:
Introduction
1       This is an appeal by Yong Vui Kong (“the
                    Appellant”) against the decision of the High Court judge (“the
                    Judge”) in Yong Vui Kong v Attorney-General
                    [2011] 1 SLR 1 (“the HC Judgment”) dismissing his judicial
                    review application in Originating Summons No 740 of 2010
                    (“OS 740/2010”).
Factual background
2       The events leading to the filing of
                    OS 740/2010 are as follows. On 14 November 2008, the Appellant was
                    convicted of trafficking in 47.27g of diamorphine, an offence under
                        s 5(1)(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act
                    (Cap 185, 2001 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”), and was sentenced to
                    death (see Public Prosecutor v Yong Vui Kong
                    [2009] SGHC 4 (“Yong Vui Kong
                    (HC)”)). On 27 November 2008, he appealed, via Criminal
                    Appeal No 13 of 2008 (“CCA 13/2008”), against both his
                    conviction and his sentence. Subsequently, he indicated, via a letter dated
                    23 April 2009 from his then counsel, that he wished to withdraw
                    CCA 13/2008. The Court of Appeal accepted the withdrawal of that appeal
                    when it came on for hearing on 29 April 2009, and dismissed it
                    formally.
3       After CCA 13/2008 was formally dismissed,
                    the Appellant submitted a petition to the President on 11 August 2009 for
                    clemency under Art 22P of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore
                    (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Singapore
                    Constitution”). The President, acting on the advice of the Cabinet,
                    declined on 20 November 2009 to grant clemency. On 30 November 2009,
                    four days before his death sentence was due to be carried out, the Appellant,
                    through his current counsel, Mr M Ravi (“Mr Ravi”),
                    filed Criminal Motion No 41 of 2009 (“CM 41/2009”)
                    seeking leave to pursue his appeal to the Court of Appeal (ie, CCA 13/2008) notwithstanding his earlier decision to
                    withdraw the appeal and its consequential formal dismissal. The ground relied on
                    by the Appellant for seeking leave to pursue CCA 13/2008 was that
                        (inter alia) he had earlier withdrawn that
                    appeal in the mistaken belief that he could not base it on the legal argument
                    that the mandatory death penalty prescribed for the offence of trafficking in
                    more than 15g of diamorphine (see s 33 of the MDA read with the Second
                    Schedule thereto) was unconstitutional. Pending the hearing of CM 41/2009,
                    the President, on the advice of the Attorney-General, granted a temporary stay
                    of execution in respect of the death sentence imposed on the
                Appellant.
4       At the hearing of CM 41/2009 on
                    8 December 2009, the Court of Appeal granted the Appellant leave to proceed
                    with CCA 13/2008 on the ground that his earlier decision to withdraw that
                    appeal was a nullity, given his mistaken belief as to his legal rights (see
                        Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor [2010]
                    2 SLR 192). Subsequently, CCA 13/2008 was heard on 15 March 2010.
                    In his written submissions for that hearing, the then Attorney-General stated
                        (inter alia) that under Art 22P of the
                    Singapore Constitution (referred to hereafter as “Art 22P”
                    for short), the President had no discretion in exercising the clemency power as
                    he had to act on the advice of the Cabinet. The Court of Appeal reserved
                    judgment at the end of the hearing, and, on 14 May 2010, delivered its
                    decision dismissing CCA 13/2008 (see Yong Vui Kong v
                        Public Prosecutor and another matter [2010] 3 SLR 489
                        (“Yong Vui Kong
                    (No 2)”)).
5       On 10 May 2010, shortly before the Court of
                    Appeal’s decision on CCA 13/2008 was released,
                    Mr K Shanmugam, the Minister for Law and the then Second Minister for
                    Home Affairs (“the Law Minister”), was reported in a local
                    newspaper, TODAY, as having made, at a community
                    event the previous day, certain comments on the mandatory death penalty for
                    serious drug trafficking offences (these comments will be referred to hereafter
                    as “the Law Minister’s statements”). The material parts of
                    the Law Minister’s statements, as reported in the 10 May 2010 edition
                    of TODAY, are set out below:[note: 1]

Death penalty, a trade-off


Saves ‘thousands of lives’ that may be
                            ruined if drugs freely available: Minister

05:55 AM May 10, 2010
by Teo Xuanwei
SINGAPORE – The mandatory death penalty for serious drug offences
                        here is a “trade-off” the Government makes to protect
                        “thousands of lives” that may be ruined if drugs were freely
                        available, Law Minister and Second Home Affairs Minister K Shanmugam
                        said yesterday.

He was replying to a resident during a dialogue session
                            at Siglap South Community Centre who asked if there would be changes on
                            this policy, in light of the case of [the Appellant].
The 22-year-old successfully got a stay of execution from [the] High Court
                        last December – despite the President rejecting his clemency plea
                        – after being sentenced to hang for trafficking 47g of heroin.
He had told the court during his trial [that] he was unaware of the
                        contents of the packages [he was carrying at the material time] as he was
                        merely following the instructions of his boss in Johor Bahru when he drove
                        into Singapore to deliver them.
But Mr Shanmugam said “thousands of lives
                            have been ruined due to the free availability of
                        drugs” in cities such as Sydney and New York. It also
                        contributes to soaring crime rates, he added.
“People assume you can have this safety and security without this
                        framework of the law; that you can change it, and yet your safety and
                        security will not be affected,” he said. “But there are always
                        trade-offs. The difficulty the Government has sometimes in explaining this
                        is that the trade-offs are not apparent. The damage to a large number of
                        others is not obvious.

“You save one life here, but 10 other lives will
                            be gone. What will your choice be?”


If [the Appellant] escapes the death penalty, drug
                            barons will think the signal is that young and vulnerable traffickers
                            will be spared and can be used as drug mules, argued
                            Mr Shanmugam.
“Then you’ll get 10 more. There’ll be an unstoppable
                        stream of such people coming through as long as we say we won’t
                        enforce our laws,” he said during his ministerial community visit to
                        Joo Chiat.
…
[emphasis added]
6       In response to the Law Minister’s
                    statements, Mr Ravi declared that those statements had caused the
                    Appellant’s fate to be “‘poisoned’ with
                        ‘biasedness’”.[note: 2]
                    Mr Ravi’s comments were reported in the 15 May 2010 edition of
                        TODAY, which also elaborated on the Law
                    Minister’s statements and a press statement released by the Ministry of
                    Law in respect of those statements (“the MinLaw press statement”),
                    as follows:[note: 3]

Convict’s last chance to escape death …
                            President to hear clemency plea; lawyer takes issue with
                            minister’s remarks

05:55 AM May 15, 2010
by Teo Xuanwei
SINGAPORE – His first clemency plea was unsuccessful and now
                        convicted drug mule Yong Vui Kong’s [viz, the Appellant’s] last chance to escape death lies in
                        the President’s hands, after the highest court in the land dismissed
                        his appeal.
…
But [the Appellant]’s lawyer, Mr M Ravi, told reporters he
                        plans to file for a judicial review before the Court of Appeal over Law
                        Minister K Shanmugam’s remarks relating to his client’s
                        case during a residents’ dialogue session last Sunday in Joo
                        Chiat.

The resident had asked if [the Appellant]’s case
                            would affect Singapore’s laws on the mandatory death
                            penalty.
Mr Shanmugam replied: “[The Appellant] (who
                            was sentenced to hang for trafficking in 47g of heroin) is young. But if
                            we say, ‘We let you go’, what’s the signal we’re
                            sending?
“We’re sending a signal to all drug barons out there: Just
                        make sure you choose a victim who’s young or a mother of a young child
                        and use them as the people to carry drugs into Singapore.”
With the sympathy generated after these people are caught, he added, there
                        will be “a whole unstoppable stream of people coming through as long
                        as we say we won’t enforce our laws”.
As [the Appellant]’s case was subjudice, or still under judgment,
                        Mr Ravi said his client’s fate had been “poisoned”
                        with “biasedness”.
In reply to media queries, the Ministry of Law said: “The
                        Government has made clear its policy and philosophy on having the mandatory
                        death penalty for a number of offences, such as drug trafficking.
“Minister Shanmugam, in response to a specific question
                        … reiterated the policy and philosophy behind the death penalty and
                        why Singapore adopted a tough stance.”
…
[emphasis added]
7       Following the above reports in TODAY, the Appellant commenced OS 740/2010 pursuant
                    to O 53 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2006 Rev Ed) on
                    21 July 2010, naming the Attorney-General as the respondent (“the
                    Respondent”) and seeking the following orders:[note: 4]
1)That leave be
                            granted for [the] hearing of prayers 2–12 as set out
                            below:–
2)That under
                            Article 22P of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore
                            [(1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the
                            Constitution”)] it is the … President and not his advisors
                            who has the discretion to decide whether or not to grant the
                            [Appellant]’s petition for clemency, this being a matter in
                            respect of which the President may decide in his discretion under
                            Article 21(2) of the Constitution, it being a function the
                            performance of which the President is authorised to act in his
                            discretion pursuant to Articles 21(2)(i) and 22P of the
                            Constitution[.]
3)That the
                            Executive’s statements that “Although in theory it is the
                            President who exercises the prerogative of mercy, in fact it is the
                            Cabinet that makes the decision” and that “the President
                            does not have discretion [in] this matter” amount to a preemption
                            and usurpation of the decision making powers of the … President
                            under Article 22P and jeopardise a fair and just determination of
                            the [Appellant]’s clemency
                            petition[.]
4)That the …
                            President’s manifest acquiescence in the Executive’s
                            position as aforesaid is ultra vires and in breach of the Constitution
                            inasmuch as:
a.It amounts to an abdication by the …
                                President of his decision making powers under
                                Article 22P;
b.It constitutes a breach of the maxim delegatus
                                non potest delegare inasmuch as the … President is delegating
                                to [the] Cabinet the decision making powers delegated to him by the
                                Constitution;
c.It amounts to an unlawful fettering by the
                                … President of his discretion to grant or refuse a petition
                                for clemency[;]
d.It subordinates the holder of the highest
                                office under the Constitution to an inferior executive body under
                                the Constitution[.]
5)That the President’s power, being a power of
                            high prerogative of mercy, is an executive act exercised with the
                            greatest conscience and care and without fear of influence from any
                            quarter. It is a real decision-making power and not a mere ceremonial
                            rubber stamp. It necessarily includes the power to decide to exercise
                            the discretion in a way which may differ from the advice of the
                            Cabinet.
6)That the remarks of the Law Minister
                            Mr K Shanmugam on 9 May 2010 [ie, the Law Minister’s statements as defined at
                            [5] above] and of the Ministry of Law in its press release dated
                            9 July 2010 [ie, the MinLaw press
                            statement as defined at [6] above] have created a reasonable
                            apprehension that the views there expressed represent those of [the]
                            Cabinet and that any advice which [the] Cabinet may give in this matter
                            has as a result already been predetermined prior to the receipt of the
                            [Appellant]’s clemency petition and that accordingly the
                            [c]onstitutional process for handling the [Appellant]’s clemency
                            petition has been irreversibly tainted to the prejudice of the
                            [Appellant].
7)That the remarks of the Law Minister
                            Mr K Shanmugam on 9 May 2010 and of the Ministry of Law
                            in its press release dated 9 July 2010 have created a reasonable
                            apprehension that the views there expressed represent those of [the]
                            Cabinet and that accordingly any advice which [the] Cabinet may give in
                            this matter has already been predetermined prior to the sentence being
                            “confirmed by the appellate court” and before such reports
                            were transmitted to the Cabinet for consideration as required under
                            Article 22P of the Constitution.
8)That in keeping with the strong public interest in
                            ensuring public confidence in the administration of justice, the Cabinet
                            is disqualified by a reasonable apprehension of bias from taking further
                            part in the clemency process; inasmuch as a reasonable member of the
                            public could harbour a reasonable suspicion of bias by reason of
                            predetermination even though the Court itself considers there is no real
                            danger of this on the facts.
9)That the [Appellant] has been deprived of the
                            possibility of a fair determination of the clemency process and is
                            entitled not to be deprived of his life on account
                        thereof.
10)That the conduct of the Minister of Law
                            Mr K Shanmugam has irreversibly tainted the clemency process
                            with apparent bias, and that the [Appellant] is entitled to be pardoned
                            on account thereof or is alternatively entitled not to be deprived of
                            his life.
11)The [Appellant] is entitled to see all the
                            materials that will be before the Cabinet on his clemency petition
                            including and in particular the Trial Judge’s report, the Chief
                            Justice’s report or other reports of the Appellate Court and the
                            Attorney-General’s opinion so as to afford him an opportunity to
                            make written representations before any decision is reached. The
                            [Appellant] relies on the decision of the Judicial Committee of the
                            Privy Council in Neville Lewis & Others (2001)
                                2 AC 50, as to the requirements of natural justice
                            in a case such as this.
12)That the [Appellant] has suffered grave injustice
                            as a result of the actions of the President and [the] Cabinet and is
                            entitled not to be deprived of his life on account
                        thereof.
[underlining and emphasis in bold italics in original]
8       In the statement filed by the Appellant as
                    required under O 53 r 1(2) of the Rules of Court (“the
                    Appellant’s O 53 statement”), the Appellant stated that he was
                    seeking the following reliefs:[note: 5]
2.The reliefs
                            sought:–
a.That the [Appellant] be granted leave to apply
                                for a [d]eclaratory judgment that it is the … President and
                                not his advisors who make the final determination of the
                                [Appellant]’s petition for clemency.
b.That the [Appellant] be granted leave to apply
                                for an order of prohibition enjoining the … President from
                                abdicating his authority under Article 22P to the
                                Cabinet.
c.That the … President be enjoined from
                                fettering his discretion to grant or refuse the [Appellant]’s
                                petition of clemency.
d.That the [Appellant] be granted an order of
                                prohibition to enjoin the director of prisons from executing the
                                [Appellant] and that the [Appellant] be granted an indefinite stay
                                of execution.
e.That the [Appellant] has been deprived of the
                                possibility of a fair determination of the clemency process and is
                                entitled not to be deprived of his life on account
                            thereof.
f.That the conduct of the Minister of Law
                                Mr K Shanmugam has irreversibly tainted the clemency
                                process with apparent bias, and that the [Appellant] is entitled to
                                be pardoned on account thereof or is alternatively entitled not to
                                be deprived of his life.
g.That the [Appellant] has suffered grave
                                injustice as a result of the actions of the President and [the]
                                Cabinet and is entitled not to be deprived of his life on account
                                thereof.
h.There is a distinction between the review of
                                the substantive decision whether or not to exercise discretion to
                                grant a pardon on the one hand and a review of the question whether
                                the decision to grant or not grant a pardon has been exercised by
                                the party empowered to decide the matter – the latter being a
                                reviewable jurisdictional issue. This application is not about
                                reviewing a decision on pardon but [is about] reviewing … a
                                failure to make a decision by the President; reviewing an abdication
                                of the decision making power; reviewing a fettering of discretion by
                                the President; reviewing a breach of the maxim delegatus non potest
                                delegare.
[underlining and emphasis in bold in original omitted]
9       In summary, in OS 740/2010, the Appellant
                    sought leave to be heard on his application for the grant of the following
                    substantive reliefs:
(a)     a declaratory order that under
                        Art 22P, the clemency power was exercisable by the President acting in
                        his discretion, and not in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet (see
                        para 2(a) of the Appellant’s O 53
                    statement);
(b)     a
                        prohibitory order enjoining the President from delegating to the Cabinet his
                        discretion to grant clemency (see paras 2(b) and 2(c) of the
                        Appellant’s O 53 statement);
(c)     an indefinite stay of execution of the death
                        sentence imposed on him (see para 2(d) of the Appellant’s
                        O 53 statement);
(d)     a declaratory order that clemency should be granted to him for the
                        reasons set out at paras 2(e)–2(g) of the Appellant’s
                        O 53 statement; and
(e)     a declaratory order that he was entitled to disclosure of
                        the materials required to be sent to the Cabinet under Art 22P(2) of
                        the Singapore Constitution (referred to hereafter as “the
                        Art 22P(2) materials” for short) in connection with his case
                        (see prayer 11 of OS 740/2010).
The proceedings in the court below
10     The Judge heard the Appellant’s
                    application for leave together with his application for the substantive reliefs
                    listed in the preceding paragraph.
11     The Appellant’s case before the Judge
                    was basically as follows:
(a)     The clemency power under
                        Art 22P was exercisable by the President acting in his discretion, and
                        not on (that is to say, not in accordance with) the advice of the Cabinet.
                        Hence, the President, in acting on the advice of the Cabinet in this regard,
                        had wrongfully delegated his clemency power to the
                    Cabinet.
(b)     The Law
                        Minister’s statements had given rise to a reasonable apprehension that
                        those statements represented not only the Law Minister’s view, but
                        also the view of the Cabinet as a whole. This had in turn engendered
                        “a reasonable apprehension that … any advice which [the]
                        Cabinet [might] give in [relation to the Appellant’s case] ha[d]
                        already been predetermined”;[note: 6]ie, there was “a reasonable suspicion
                        of bias by reason of predetermination”.[note: 7] Accordingly, the Law
                        Minister’s statements had “irreversibly tainted the clemency
                        process with apparent bias”.[note: 8] On this basis, the death
                        sentence imposed on the Appellant could not possibly be executed “in
                        accordance with law” within the meaning of Art 9(1) of the
                        Singapore Constitution, and, therefore, clemency must be granted to the
                        Appellant.
(c)     The
                        Appellant was entitled to disclosure of the Art 22P(2) materials
                        relating to his case so that he could make adequate representations to the
                        Cabinet before the Cabinet decided what advice to give to the President
                            vis-à-vis whether clemency should be
                        granted to him.
12     The Respondent’s case was basically that
                    the clemency power and/or its exercise (collectively referred to hereafter as
                    “the clemency power” for convenience) was not justiciable as the
                    clemency power was “an extra-legal, extra-judicial and extraordinary
                    [power] … that [was] only invoked when the legal process ha[d] reached
                    its final and ultimate conclusion”.[note: 9] Consequently, it was
                    argued, the manner in which the President exercised the clemency power and the
                    decision which he made pursuant to that power would be outside the purview of
                    the courts.
13     The Judge dismissed OS 740/2010 after
                    carefully analysing in a reserved judgment (ie,
                    the HC Judgment) the parties’ arguments on the facts and the law, as well
                    as case law from various common law jurisdictions on the clemency power. The
                    Appellant then appealed to this court against the Judge’s
                decision.
The issues on appeal
The Appellant’s case
14     In his written case for this appeal, the
                    Appellant listed his grounds of appeal under the following headings:[note: 10]
I.The power to
                            grant pardon under Article 22P of the Singapore Constitution is not
                            immune to judicial review …
…
II.The power to
                            pardon is susceptible to judicial review on the grounds that fair
                            procedure has not been observed …
…
III.Fair procedure
                            requires that the power to pardon be exercised in accordance with the
                            rule against apparent bias …
…
IV.The rule against
                            apparent bias is violated when there is an appearance of prejudgment
                            …
…
V.Apparent bias by
                            prejudgment has arisen in the present case, and [the] Cabinet is
                            therefore disqualified from taking any further part in the pardon
                            process …
…
VI.[The] Cabinet
                            being disqualified, the pardon process can no longer be properly
                            proceeded with …
…
VII.The propriety
                            of the pardon process has been further compromised because it is the
                            President who should make the ultimate decision regarding pardon, and
                            not [the] Cabinet …
…
VIII.The propriety
                            of the pardon process will be further compromised if the materials
                            placed before [the] Cabinet are not made available to the Appellant
                            …
…
IX.The Appellant
                            must not be excuted without the benefit of a properly conducted pardon
                            process …
…
X.Whether declarations can be granted in actions
                            begun under Order 53 …
[emphasis in bold in original omitted]
Mr Ravi elaborated on all of the above grounds of appeal in his
                    oral submissions before this court as well as in two “Speaking
                    Notes” which he tendered to the court at the hearing of the
                    appeal.
The Respondent’s case
15     The Respondent’s written case joined
                    issue with all of the Appellant’s grounds of appeal, and crystallised them
                    into five legal issues as follows:
(a)     whether the clemency power under
                        Art 22P is exercised by the President acting in his discretion or
                        whether the President is bound by the advice of the Cabinet in this regard
                        (referred to hereafter as “the Discretion
                    Issue”);
(b)     whether, in our local context, the clemency power is subject to judicial
                        review (referred to hereafter as “the Justiciability
                        Issue”);
(c)     if the Justiciability Issue is answered in the affirmative, whether breach
                        of natural justice is an applicable ground for reviewing the process of
                        exercising the clemency power (“the clemency process”), and,
                        if it is, whether the clemency process vis-à-vis the Appellant has been tainted by apparent bias in
                        the present case as a result of the Law Minister’s statements
                        (referred to hereafter as “the Natural Justice
                    Issue”);
(d)     whether the Appellant is entitled to disclosure of the Art 22P(2)
                        materials relating to his case so that he can make adequate representations
                        to the President on any fresh clemency petition which he may wish to file
                        (referred to hereafter as “the Disclosure Issue”);
                    and
(e)     whether
                        declaratory relief can be granted in proceedings commenced under O 53
                        of the Rules of Court (referred to hereafter as “the Declaratory
                        Relief Issue”).
The surprises which Mr Ravi sprang at the hearing of this
                appeal
The application for my recusal
16     At the commencement of the hearing of this
                    appeal, Mr Ravi sprang a surprise by making, without any prior notice to
                    either the court or the Respondent, a preliminary application for me to recuse
                    myself from hearing the appeal on the ground of apparent bias. His reasons for
                    making the application, in his own words (as recorded in the court’s notes
                    taken at the hearing of the appeal), are set out in the following
                        passages:[note: 11]
Apply to disqualify Chief Justice from the bench. ... Asking CJ to
                        disqualify himself from hearing the matter: he was the AG in 2006. Your Honours have a conflict of interest in this matter to the
                            extent that you were the AG advising the President. The
                        outcome of this application, in the event that [the] President does not have
                        powers, must be in conflict with the CA’s reasoning. YH [Your Honour]
                        becomes an interested member in the outcome of this application. Because if
                        YH agrees that [the] President has clemency powers, then YH would be wrong
                        as well. I’m not saying that CJ is prejudiced, I’m just going by
                        apparent bias. I am only basing my proposition on the rule of law, and the
                        fact that life is at stake. I will leave it to you, to make your own
                        judgment within the province and prerogative of the court.
…
Straightforward point. CJ was the AG who had advised the President, who
                        had no discretion in the matter. Puts CJ in conflict with
                            any reading of the [Singapore] Constitution which states that the
                            President does have power.
…
11 April 2006, the AG became the current CJ. When cases which were
                        processed by him as AG come up to court, the CJ doesn’t sit to hear
                        them. When [the Appellant]’s case was heard as a Criminal Appeal, his
                        case was not processed when CJ was AG. But the current application: the
                        current CJ, being the AG before, if this court rules that [the] President
                        has clemency powers, the CJ must have advised Cabinet wrongly as AG, and
                        therefore advised the President wrongly. If so, then all the other
                        executions would have been carried out wrongly. There is a potential of
                        reasonable apprehension of bias.
…
… It’s not whether [Your Honour] must have advised –
                        the fact that the President assumed he had no power. Either by way of negligence, omission, the advice was wrong.
                        I do not want to go outside and tell another story.
…
My proposition is Bentley [ie, Regina v Secretary of State
                            for the Home Department, Ex parte Bentley [1994] QB 349].
                        It’s not that [Your Honour has] advised the President. I fortify my
                        position that in 2005, Mr Nathan [ie,
                        President S R Nathan] … gave an interview to the
                        papers to say that he had no powers, it’s only the Cabinet. This
                        article shows that the President himself says he didn’t have clemency
                        powers. As it stands, it must mean that the
                            [Attorneys-General] have taken that view and given such advice to the
                            President.
[emphasis added]
Mr Ravi explained that his lateness in making his recusal
                    application, despite his having been informed of the coram two weeks before the
                    hearing of the appeal, was due to his foreign legal advisers having advised him
                    only two days before the hearing to raise the aforesaid arguments in the
                    interests of the Appellant.
17     Whatever reasons Mr Ravi might have for
                    the lateness of his recusal application, his objections to my hearing this
                    appeal were patently without merit. His objections were based on two premises,
                    none of which were tenable in the context of the present case.
18     The first premise is that I had, qua Attorney-General, given advice to the President
                    which had a bearing on the Discretion Issue. Mr Ravi was unable to make
                    good this premise. When I asked him if he had any evidence for his assertion
                    that I had, during my tenure as Attorney-General, given the President such
                    advice, he replied that his position was “not that you have advised the President”[note: 12] [emphasis added], but that, because
                    the President himself had said in an interview that he did not have any
                    discretion in exercising the clemency power, “it must mean that the
                    [Attorneys-General] have taken that view and given such advice to the
                        President”.[note: 13]
19     The second premise is that if I had advised the President that he had no discretion in
                    exercising the clemency power, I would have been wrong in law, and this would
                    put me in “in conflict with any reading of the
                        [Singapore] Constitution which states that the President does have
                        power”.[note: 14]
                    However, the legal argument which underlies this premise –
                    viz, the argument that the President can act in
                    his own discretion in exercising the clemency power – is fundamentally
                    flawed. It is trite law that the Head of State in a Constitution based on the
                    Westminster model, such as the Singapore Constitution, is a ceremonial Head of
                    State who: (a) must act in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet in the
                    discharge of his functions; and (b) has no discretionary powers except
                    those expressly conferred on him by the Constitution. In our local context,
                    Art 22P is not a provision which expressly confers discretionary powers on
                    the President. This point is conclusively demonstrated by my colleagues on this
                    bench, Andrew Phang Boon Leong and V K Rajah JJA, in their joint
                    judgment (see, specifically, [156]–[157] and
                        [178]–[180] below). Reference may also be made to the following
                    judicial pronouncements and academic writings: Lee Mau Seng v
                        Minister for Home Affairs and another [1971?1973] SLR(R) 135 (at
                        [31]?[34] per Wee Chong Jin CJ); S Jayakumar,
                        Constitutional Law (with documentary
                        materials) (Singapore Law Series No 1) (Malaya Law Review,
                    1976); N Madhavan Nair v
                        Government of Malaysia [1975] 2 MLJ 286 (at 289 and 292
                        per Chang Min Tat J); and
                    R H Hickling, Malaysian Public Law
                    (Pelanduk Publications, 1997) (at pp 67?68).
20     Notably, with reference to the clemency power
                    specifically, the constitutional law principle outlined at [19] above was stated by the then Prime Minister
                    on 22 December 1965 (in his parliamentary speech at the second reading of
                    the Republic of Singapore Independence Bill 1965 (Bill 43 of 1965), which
                    was subsequently enacted as the Republic of Singapore Independence Act 1965
                    (Act 9 of 1965)) vis-à-vis the
                    President’s role in the clemency process (see [172]–[173] below).
                    Mr Ravi’s argument that the President has a discretion in exercising
                    the clemency power was rejected by the Judge in a carefully reasoned judgment.
                    Before this court, Mr Ravi made no attempt whatsoever to demonstrate why
                    (in his view) the Judge was wrong, apart from baldly reiterating that the Judge
                    was wrong.
21     In our legal order, no judge, in discharging
                    his functions, is free to disregard fundamental principles of law. The principle
                    that under the Singapore Constitution, the President must act on the advice of
                    the Cabinet in all matters in the discharge of his functions, except where
                    discretion is expressly conferred on him, is one such fundamental principle of
                    constitutional law. This principle is set out in Art 21(1) read with
                    Art 21(2) of the Singapore Constitution, and has been part of our
                    constitutional order ever since Singapore attained internal self-government in
                    1959.
22     It was clear to this court that Mr Ravi
                    postulated a completely unsustainable argument vis-à-vis the President’s exercise of the clemency power
                    – one that contradicts our constitutional history, the text of
                    Arts 21 and 22P and existing case law – for no reason other than it
                    suited his purpose, whatever it was. For the foregoing reasons, this court
                    rejected Mr Ravi’s recusal application.
The late raising of an additional ground of appeal
23     In the course of his oral submissions before
                    this court on the appeal proper, Mr Ravi sprang another surprise when he
                    argued that, independent of the Appellant’s rights under the Singapore
                    Constitution, the Appellant had a legitimate expectation that the President
                    would act in his discretion, as opposed to on the Cabinet’s advice, in
                    deciding whether or not the Appellant should be granted clemency. Nevertheless,
                    given the grave personal (from the Appellant’s viewpoint) and
                    constitutional implications which the decision in this appeal will have, this
                    court permitted Mr Ravi to raise the argument notwithstanding his lateness
                    in presenting it as one of the Appellant’s grounds of appeal. For
                    convenience, I shall hereafter refer to this issue as “the Legitimate
                    Expectation Issue”.
My approach in this judgment
24     In this judgment, I shall not discuss in
                    detail all of the issues enumerated at [15]
                    above. I shall, instead, focus on the Justiciability Issue, the Natural Justice
                    Issue, the Disclosure Issue and the Declaratory Relief Issue. With respect to
                    the Discretion Issue and the Legitimate Expectation Issue, I have read the
                    relevant portions of Phang and Rajah JJA’s joint judgment (namely,
                        [151]-[187] below) which deal with these two issues
                    with great clarity, and I fully agree with the decision and the reasoning set
                    out therein.
The Declaratory Relief Issue
25     I shall begin my analysis with the
                    Discretionary Relief Issue since it can be given short shrift in view of
                    existing case law on the type of relief available in proceedings brought under
                    O 53 of the Rules of Court (see, eg,
                        Chan Hiang Leng Colin and others v Minister for
                        Information and the Arts [1996] 1 SLR(R) 294 at [5]–[6] and Re Application by Dow Jones (Asia)
                        Inc [1987] SLR(R) 627 at [14]). The case authorities show clearly that declaratory relief
                    is not a remedy provided for under O 53 of the Rules of Court, and, thus,
                    the court has no power to grant such relief in
                    proceedings commenced under this Order. Mr Ravi has not convinced us that
                    his argument to the contrary is correct.
The Justiciability Issue 
26     I turn next to the Justiciability Issue,
                        ie, the issue of whether or not, in our local
                    context, the clemency power under Art 22P is amenable to judicial review.
                    This issue has not hitherto been considered by this court. In this regard, I
                    note that in Jabar bin Kadermastan v Public
                        Prosecutor [1995] 1 SLR(R) 326, this court held, with
                    reference to the immediate predecessor of Art 22P (viz, s 8 of the Republic of Singapore Independence Act 1965
                    (1985 Rev Ed)), that only the President had the power to commute or remit a
                    sentence, or to stay the execution of a sentence (see also the decision to the
                    same effect in Lwee Kwi Ling Mary v Public
                        Prosecutor [2003] 2 SLR(R) 151). These two decisions are not
                    relevant to the Justiciability Issue since they concern the separation of the
                    executive power from the judicial power under the Singapore Constitution, and
                    not the reviewability or otherwise of executive decisions made in exercise of
                    the clemency power.
Preliminary points
27     Before I begin my analysis of the
                    Justiciability Issue, there are a number of preliminary points which I wish to
                    make. The first concerns the public policy underlying the clemency power (or the
                    pardon power, as it is also called), which originated from the prerogative of
                    mercy in England. In this regard, the following passages from two commentaries
                    on the clemency power under the US Constitution are apposite. The first is from
                    the section on “Pardon and Parole” by John Glenn et al in Corpus Juris Secundum: A
                        Complete Restatement of the Entire American Law as developed by All Reported
                        Cases (West Group, 2010), where the authors explain the relevant
                    public policy considerations as follows (at vol 67A, §11):
The pardoning power is founded on considerations of the public good, and
                        is to be exercised on the ground that the public welfare, which is the
                        legitimate object of all punishment, will be as well promoted by a
                        suspension as by an execution of the sentence. It may also be used to the
                        end that justice be done by correcting injustice, as where after-discovered
                        facts convince the official or board vested with the power that there was no
                        guilt or that other mistakes were made in the operation or enforcement of
                        the criminal law. Executive clemency also exists to afford relief from undue
                        harshness or evident mistake in the operation or enforcement of the criminal
                        law.
The second commentary is from the section on “Pardon and
                    Parole” by Anne M Payne in American
                        Jurisprudence (West Group, 2nd Ed, 2002), where the author
                    states (at vol 59, §11):
The granting of a pardon is an act of grace, bestowed by the government
                        through its duly authorized officers or department, and is designed to
                        relieve an individual from the unforeseen injustice, because of
                        extraordinary facts and circumstances peculiar to the case, of applying the
                        punishment provided in a general statute which, under ordinary
                        circumstances, is just and beneficial. However, a pardon is more than a mere
                        act of private grace proceeding from an individual having the power to
                        exercise it, and is a part of the constitutional scheme; properly granted,
                        it is also an act of justice, supported by a wise public policy.
28     My second preliminary point relates to the
                    meaning of the terms “justiciability” and
                    “reviewability” as used in the context of judicial review
                    proceedings. Judges from common law jurisdictions have often discussed the
                    question of whether judicial review applies to the clemency power in terms of
                    the “justiciability” of this power by the courts, with the concept
                    of “justiciability” frequently used synonymously with the concept
                    of “reviewability”. I shall adopt the same approach in this
                    judgment. I shall also adopt the meaning of “justiciable” set out
                    in The Oxford English Dictionary (Clarendon Press,
                    2nd Ed, 1989) at vol 8, p 327, ie,
                    “[l]iable to be tried in a court of justice; subject to
                    jurisdiction”.
29     My third preliminary point, which is likewise
                    a definitional one, concerns two expressions which are often used
                    interchangeably in discussions on the clemency power –
                    viz, “clemency power” and
                    “clemency process”. Indeed, in the present case, the Judge
                    expressly stated that he was treating these two terms as synonyms (see [22] of the HC Judgment). Thus, he set out his
                    ruling on the Justiciability Issue as follows in the HC Judgment:
67    For the reasons
                            which follow, I am … of the view that Article 22P is not justiciable on the grounds
                            raised by Mr Ravi, viz:
(a)    that it is the President, and not the Cabinet,
                                who should exercise the power to grant pardons;
(b)    that the clemency process is tainted because
                                the Cabinet has pre-judged [the Appellant]’s case, as
                                evidenced by the [Law] Minister’s statement[s];
                            and
(c)    that [the Appellant] has a right to see the
                                materials before the Cabinet.
…
85    In summary, the
                                clemency process is not justiciable on
                            the grounds pursued by [the Appellant], because:
(a)    the power to grant pardons under
                                Article 22P is exercised by the Cabinet, and not the President,
                                who has no discretion in the matter;
(b)    apparent bias is not an available ground on
                                which to review the clemency process;
(c)    there is no evidence of a pre-determination of
                                [the Appellant]’s imminent [clemency] petition;
                            and
(d)    there is no basis for a substantive right to
                                the materials which will be before the Cabinet when it advises the
                                President on the clemency petition.
[emphasis added]
In effect, at [67] of the HC
                    Judgment, the Judge said that “Article 22P” –
                    ie, the clemency power – was not justiciable, whilst at [85] thereof, he said that the clemency
                        process was not justiciable.
30     Unlike the Judge, I shall not be treating the
                    terms “clemency power” and “clemency process” as
                    synonyms in this judgment. Instead, as indicated earlier, I shall use the
                    expression “the clemency power” to denote the clemency power
                        and/or its exercise where the context so
                    requires (see [12] above), and the
                    expression “the clemency process” to denote the process of
                    exercising the clemency power (see sub-para (c) of [15] above). Admittedly, the distinction between the exercise of
                    the clemency power and the process of exercising that power (ie, the clemency process) is a fine one, and, arguably, the
                    distinction may not even exist at all in certain contexts (eg, the manner in which the clemency power is exercised can be
                    regarded either as an aspect of the clemency process or as an aspect of the clemency power, as defined to include (where appropriate) the exercise of
                    this power). Be that as it may, I think it is worthwhile to make this
                    distinction as it is, in my view, more appropriate to use the expression
                    “the clemency process”, as opposed to “the clemency
                    power”, in discussing the Natural Justice Issue.
The range of matters which are justiciable by the courts
31     The Justiciability Issue can be seen as a
                    subset of the broader question of whether there are any matters which are
                    non-justiciable, ie, which the courts do not have
                    jurisdiction to rule on. Where Singapore is concerned, I am of the view that by
                    virtue of the judicial power vested in the Supreme Court under Art 93 of
                    the Singapore Constitution, the Supreme Court has jurisdiction to adjudicate on
                    every legal dispute on a subject matter in respect of which Parliament has
                    conferred jurisdiction on it, including any constitutional dispute between the
                    State and an individual. In any modern State whose fundamental law is a written
                    Constitution based on the doctrine of separation of powers (ie, where the judicial power is vested in an independent
                    judiciary), there will (or should) be few, if any, legal disputes between the
                    State and the people from which the judicial power is excluded. In this regard,
                    the following comment by Melville Fuller Weston in his article “Political
                    Questions” (1924–1925) 38 Harv L Rev 296
                    (“Weston’s article”) is pertinent (at p 299):
The word “justiciable” … is legitimately capable of
                        denoting almost any question. That is to say, the questions are few which
                        are intrinsically incapable of submission to … an adjudication from
                        which practical consequences in human conduct are to follow.
32     The matters which are “intrinsically
                    incapable of submission to … an adjudication” (per Weston’s article at p 299) may vary greatly in
                    different legal contexts. For instance, in Chandler and
                        Others v Director of Public Prosecutions [1964] AC 763
                        (“Chandler”),
                    Viscount Radcliffe expressed the view that the question of whether it was
                    in the interests of the UK to acquire, retain or house nuclear armaments was
                    “not … a matter for judge or jury” (at 799) because it
                    involved “an infinity of considerations, military and diplomatic,
                    technical, psychological and moral” (at 799) which were not within the
                    province of the courts to assess. In contrast, the converse position was taken
                    in Operation Dismantle Inc and others v Her Majesty The
                        Queen [1985] 1 SCR 441 (“Operation
                        Dismantle”), where the Supreme Court of Canada held that
                    the courts could adjudicate on the issue of whether or not the Canadian
                    government’s decision to allow the US to test cruise missiles in Canada
                    violated s 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (“the
                    Canadian Charter”), which sets out “the right to life, liberty and
                    security of the person and the right not to be deprived thereof except in
                    accordance with the principles of fundamental justice”.
Whether the clemency power is justiciable in our local
                context
The parties’ arguments
33     Mr Ravi’s argument vis-à-vis the Justiciability Issue in the present appeal
                    is that the clemency power under Art 22P is justiciable, given the
                    principle of legality laid down by this court in Chng Suan
                        Tze v Minister for Home Affairs and others and other appeals
                    [1988] 2 SLR(R) 525 (“Chng Suan
                    Tze”) –
                    ie, the principle that “[a]ll power has
                    legal limits” (at [86]). He
                    argues that in view of this principle (referred to hereafter as “the
                        Chng Suan Tze principle”), the clemency
                    power is likewise subject to judicial review if the person or body of persons on
                    whom this power is conferred (“the ultimate authority”) has acted
                    illegally or outside the scope of the power, or has made a decision (pursuant to
                    the power) which is tainted by a reasonable apprehension of bias.
34     The Respondent does not take the position that
                        Chng Suan Tze was wrongly decided (ie, he accepts the Chng Suan
                        Tze principle). Rather, his position is that:
(a)     Because of the doctrine of
                        separation of powers which underlies Singapore’s constitutional
                        framework, “there are clearly provinces of executive decision-making
                        that are, and should be, immune from judicial review” (see Lee Hsien Loong v Review Publishing Co Ltd and another and
                            another suit [2007] 2 SLR(R) 453 at [95]).
(b)     The clemency power is one area of executive
                        power which is (or should be) non-justiciable.
(c)     If, however, the clemency power is indeed
                        justiciable, then its justiciability should be limited to a determination of
                        whether or not a particular clemency decision (ie, a particular decision as to: (i) whether or not to
                        grant clemency; and (ii) if clemency is to be granted, the form and/or
                        extent of clemency to be granted) was made in accordance with Art 22P,
                        and should extend no further.
35     To elaborate on the Respondent’s
                    position, its central premise is that the clemency power, howsoever exercised,
                    is non-justiciable. In support of this proposition, the Respondent highlighted
                    several factors. The first is the breadth of the power conferred by
                    Art 22P. This Article does not spell out any limits on the scope of the
                    clemency power or how it may be exercised, except for the procedure applicable
                    in what I shall hereafter refer to as a “death sentence case”,
                        ie, a case involving an offender who has been
                    sentenced to death and who has (assuming he appeals against his conviction
                    and/or his sentence) exhausted all his rights of appeal. The second factor
                    emphasised by the Respondent is that a clemency decision is based purely on
                    policy considerations. The third factor which the Respondent pointed out is that
                    the clemency power in Art 22P is derived from the prerogative of mercy.
                    Since mercy “begins where legal rights end” (to use
                    Lord Diplock’s famous aphorism in Michael de
                        Freitas also called Michael Abdul Malik v George Ramoutar Benny and
                        Others [1976] AC 239 (“de
                        Freitas”) at 247), the grant of mercy, so the Respondent
                    submits, is not the subject of legal rights and, therefore, is not amenable to
                    judicial review.
36     In order to evaluate the opposing views of
                    Mr Ravi and the Respondent respectively on the Justiciability Issue, it is
                    helpful to consider case law from and the constitutional history of England as
                    well as those former British colonies and dominions which have a legal heritage
                    similar to ours. Since Singapore was formerly a British colony, with the
                    clemency power previously exercisable by the Governor of Singapore (and,
                    subsequently, the Yang di-Pertuan Negara) in the name and on behalf of the
                    British sovereign (see further [160]–[168] below),
                    it is only appropriate that I begin by reviewing the English position on the
                    justiciability of the clemency power.
Justiciability of the clemency power in England and former British
                colonies 
(1)   The position in England
37     The traditional approach in England vis-à-vis the justiciability of the clemency power was
                    reiterated in 1971 by the English Court of Appeal in Hanratty
                        and Another v Lord Butler of Saffron Walden (1971)
                    115 SJ 386 (“Hanratty”),
                    namely, “[t]he law would not inquire into the manner in which [the]
                    prerogative [of mercy] was exercised” (at 386) –
                    ie, the clemency power was not reviewable by the
                    courts. Lord Denning MR (with whom Salmon and Stamp LJJ agreed)
                    explained that this approach was grounded on public policy. The English
                    courts’ traditional reluctance to encroach on the prerogative of mercy
                    stems from the fact that in England, this power has been exercised by the
                    Sovereign from time immemorial, and has always been regarded as an essential
                    attribute of sovereignty. This traditional approach persisted even long after
                    constitutional government had taken root in England, and even after prerogative
                    powers, including the prerogative of mercy, became exercisable by the Executive
                    instead of by the British sovereign.
38     In 1985, a significant inroad into the
                    non-justiciability of prerogative powers in general was made by the House of
                    Lords in its seminal decision in Council of Civil Service
                        Unions and Others v Minister for the Civil Service [1985] AC 374
                        (“GCHQ”). In that case, three of
                    the law lords (viz, Lord Scarman,
                    Lord Diplock and Lord Roskill) held that it was no longer
                    constitutionally appropriate to deny the courts supervisory jurisdiction over a
                    governmental decision merely because the legal authority for that decision
                    stemmed from a prerogative power rather than a statutory power (the other two
                    law lords, viz, Lord Fraser of Tullybelton
                    and Lord Brightman, preferred to leave this point open, although they
                    agreed with their fellow law lords that, on the facts of the case, the
                    governmental decision in question was not illegal).
39     At 407 of GCHQ,
                    Lord Scarman stated:
… [T]he law relating to judicial review has now reached the stage
                        where … if the subject matter in respect of which [the] prerogative
                        power [in question] is exercised is justiciable, that is to say[,] if it is
                        a matter upon which the court can adjudicate, the exercise of the power is
                        subject to review in accordance with the principles developed in respect of
                        the review of the exercise of statutory power. …
                        Today, therefore, the controlling factor in determining
                            whether the exercise of prerogative power is subject to judicial review
                            is not its source but its subject matter. [emphasis
                        added]
In essence, what Lord Scarman said in the above passage was that
                    the justiciability of an executive power depended not on the source of the
                    executive power in question (ie, the fact that the
                    executive power was derived from the royal prerogative did not automatically
                    render its exercise immune from judicial review), but on the subject matter in
                    respect of which the executive power was exercised, with the decisive factor
                    being whether that subject matter was one which, either as a matter of law or as
                    a matter of fact, the courts could not adjudicate on.
40     Notwithstanding the change in judicial
                    attitude expressed by Lord Scarman, Lord Diplock and Lord Roskill
                    in GCHQ apropos the justiciability of prerogative
                    powers, it appears that the prerogative of mercy specifically remained immune
                    from judicial review after GCHQ since that case
                    did not concern that particular prerogative power (it concerned, instead, the
                    prerogative power to make orders regulating the conditions of service of staff
                    employed by the UK Civil Service). Further, Lord Roskill (albeit alone
                    among the law lords) expressed the view (at 418) that the prerogative of mercy
                    was one of the prerogative powers which should remain non-justiciable (the
                    others being, in his Lordship’s view, the prerogative powers relating to,
                    respectively, the making of treaties, the defence of the realm, the grant of
                    honours, the dissolution of Parliament and the appointment of
                Ministers).
41     The break from the traditional view (expressed
                    in, inter alia, Hanratty) that there could be no judicial review of the clemency
                    power came in 1994 with the ruling of the Divisional Court in Regina v Secretary of State for the Home Department, Ex parte
                        Bentley [1994] QB 349 (“Bentley”). That case concerned the execution in 1953 of a
                    19-year-old murderer (“Bentley”). The then Home Secretary had
                    refused to grant Bentley a reprieve from the death sentence even though the jury
                    at the trial had, after returning its verdict of guilty, recommended mercy for
                    Bentley. In 1992, the Home Secretary rejected a petition by Bentley’s
                    sister for Bentley to be granted a posthumous free pardon (under English law,
                    the grant of a free pardon serves to “remove from the subject of the
                    pardon … ‘all pains[,] penalties and punishments whatsoever that
                    from the said conviction may ensue,’ but not … eliminate the
                    conviction itself” (see Regina v Foster
                    [1985] QB 115 at 130)). His reasons were that: (a) he could not substitute
                    his judgment for the judgment of the then Home Secretary in 1953; and
                    (b) it was the Home Office’s established policy not to grant a free
                    pardon to an offender unless the Home Secretary was satisfied that the offender
                    was both morally and technically innocent of any crime.
42     Bentley’s sister applied for judicial
                    review of the Home Secretary’s decision on the ground that, inter alia, the Home Secretary had failed to recognise
                    that the prerogative of mercy was capable of being exercised in many different
                    circumstances and over a wide range, and had therefore failed to consider the
                    form of pardon which would be appropriate in Bentley’s case. A preliminary
                    question arose before the Divisional Court as to whether the prerogative of
                    mercy was reviewable on the facts before the
                    court. The court declined to follow Hanratty on the basis that it had been decided before GCHQ, and answered the preliminary question in the
                    affirmative, as follows (see Bentley at
                    362–363 per Watkins LJ):
[Counsel for Bentley’s sister] … argues that the prerogative
                        of mercy is exercised by the Home Secretary on behalf of us all. It is an
                        important feature of our criminal justice system. It would be surprising and
                        regrettable in our developed state of public law were the decision of the
                        Home Secretary to be immune from legal challenge irrespective of the gravity
                        of the legal errors which infected such a decision. Many types of decisions
                        made by the Home Secretary do involve an element of policy (e.g. parole) but
                        are subject to review.
We accept these arguments. [GCHQ] made it
                        clear that the powers of the court cannot be ousted merely by invoking the
                        word “prerogative.”
                        The question is simply whether the nature and subject
                            matter of the decision is amenable to the judicial process. Are the
                            courts qualified to deal with the matter or does the decision involve
                            such questions of policy that they should not intrude because they are
                            ill-equipped to do so? Looked at in this way[,] there must be cases in
                            which the exercise of the [r]oyal [p]rerogative is
                        reviewable, in our judgment. If, for example, it was clear that
                        the Home Secretary had refused to pardon someone solely on the grounds of
                        their sex, race or religion, the courts would be expected to interfere and,
                        in our judgment, would be entitled to do.

We conclude therefore that some aspects of the exercise
                            of the [r]oyal [p]rerogative are amenable to the judicial process. We do
                            not think that it is necessary for us to say more than this in the
                            instant case. It will be for other courts to decide on a case by case
                            basis whether the matter in question is reviewable or
                        not.
[emphasis added]
The Divisional Court noted Lord Roskill’s comment in
                        GCHQ that the clemency power should remain
                    immune from judicial review, but regarded it as obiter (see Bentley at
                    363).
43     On the facts before it, the Divisional Court
                    found that the Home Secretary had not given sufficient consideration to his
                    power to grant some form of pardon which would be suitable to the particular
                    circumstances of the case, other than a free pardon. It did not, however,
                    declare the Home Secretary’s decision null and void, but merely invited
                    him to (see Bentley at 365):
… look at the matter again and … examine whether it would be
                        just to exercise the prerogative of mercy in such a way as to give full
                        recognition to the now generally accepted view that [Bentley] should have
                        been reprieved.
44     In my view, Bentley clearly decided that the prerogative of mercy would be
                    reviewable if it were exercised based on an error of law (in that case, the Home
                    Secretary’s misconstruction of the type of pardon which the Home Office
                    could grant), or based on arbitrary and/or extraneous considerations. In other
                    words, the Divisional Court held that, depending on the facts of the case at
                    hand, it was possible that the prerogative of mercy would be subject to judicial
                    review like any other executive power, whether derived from a statutory source
                    or a prerogative source. However, the Divisional Court also affirmed the
                    long-established administrative law principle that the courts could not review
                    the merits of the Home Secretary’s decision
                    as to whether or not to grant clemency in a particular case.
(2)   The position in the Caribbean States
45     The current legal position in the Caribbean
                    States on the justiciability of the clemency power is that set out by the Privy
                    Council in Neville Lewis v Attorney General of Jamaica and
                        another [2001] 2 AC 50 (“Lewis”). In that case, the Privy Council declined to
                    follow two of its own decisions, viz, de Freitas, an appeal from Trinidad and Tobago, and
                        Thomas Reckley v Minister of Public Safety and
                        Immigration and Others (No 2) [1996] AC 527
                        (“Reckley”), an appeal from the
                    Bahamas, both of which held that, under the law of the jurisdiction concerned,
                    the clemency power was not amenable to judicial review.
46     In de Freitas,
                    the offender in question (“MF”) was a convicted murderer who had
                    been sentenced to death. Under the Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago, the
                    prerogative of mercy is exercisable by the Governor-General on the advice of the
                    designated Minister. In a death sentence case, the trial judge’s report
                    and such other information as the designated Minister may require must be placed
                    before the advisory committee on the prerogative of mercy. The designated
                    Minister must consult the advisory committee
                    before he advises the Governor-General, but is not obliged to follow its
                    advice.
47     MF, after exhausting all his rights of appeal,
                    commenced an action in the High Court of Trinidad and Tobago seeking a
                    declaration that the execution of the death sentence imposed on him would
                    violate his human rights and fundamental freedoms under the Constitution of
                    Trinidad and Tobago. One of the arguments which MF made was that the functions
                    of the advisory committee were quasi-judicial in nature and thus had to be
                    performed in accordance with the rules of natural justice. This meant, MF
                    contended, that whenever the advisory committee met to consider what advice to
                    give to the designated Minister vis-à-vis the
                    prerogative of mercy in a death sentence case, the offender in question was
                    entitled to be shown the materials placed before the advisory committee, and was
                    also entitled to be legally represented and heard at a hearing before the
                    advisory committee.
48     The Privy Council unanimously rejected
                    MF’s argument. Lord Diplock said (at 247–248):
Except in so far as it may have been altered by the Constitution [of
                        Trinidad and Tobago,] the legal nature of the exercise of the royal
                        prerogative of mercy in Trinidad and Tobago remains the same as it was in
                        England at common law. At common law this has always been
                            a matter which lies solely in the discretion of the sovereign, who by
                            constitutional convention exercises it in respect of England on the
                            advice of the Home Secretary to whom Her Majesty delegates her
                            discretion. Mercy is not the subject of legal rights. It begins where
                            legal rights end. A convicted person has no legal right even to have his
                            case considered by the Home Secretary in connection with the exercise of
                            the prerogative of mercy. In tendering his advice to the sovereign the
                            Home Secretary is doing something that is often cited as the exemplar of
                            a purely discretionary act as contrasted with the exercise of a
                            quasi-judicial function. While capital punishment was still a
                        lawful penalty for murder in England it was the practice of the Home
                        Secretary in every capital case to call for a report of the case from the
                        trial judge and for such other information from such other sources as he
                        thought might help him to make up his mind as to the advice that he would
                        tender to the sovereign in the particular case. But it was never the
                        practice for the judge’s report or any other information obtained by
                        the Home Secretary to be disclosed to the condemned person or his legal
                        representatives.
Section 70(1) of the Constitution [of Trinidad and Tobago] makes it
                        clear that the prerogative of mercy in Trinidad and Tobago is of the same
                        legal nature as the royal prerogative of mercy in England. It is exercised
                        by the Governor-General but “in Her Majesty’s name and on Her
                        Majesty’s behalf.” By section 70(2) the Governor-General
                        is required to exercise this prerogative on the advice of a Minister
                        designated by him … This provision does no more than spell out a
                        similar relationship between the designated Minister and the
                        Governor-General acting on behalf of Her Majesty to that which exists
                        between the Home Secretary and Her Majesty in England under an unwritten
                        convention of the British Constitution. It serves to emphasise the personal
                        nature of the discretion exercised by the designated Minister in tendering
                        his advice. The only novel feature is the provision in section 72(1)
                        and (2) that the [designated] Minister before tendering his advice must, in
                        a case where an offender has been sentenced to death, and may, in other
                        cases, consult with the Advisory Committee established under
                        section 71, of which the [designated] Minister himself is chairman; but
                        section 72(3) expressly provides that he is not obliged in any case to
                        act in accordance with their advice. In capital cases the Advisory Committee
                        too must see the judge’s report and any other information that the
                        [designated] Minister has required to be obtained in connection with the
                        case, but it still remains a purely consultative body without any
                        decision-making power.

In their Lordships’ view these provisions are not
                            capable of converting the functions of the [designated] Minister, in
                            relation to the advice he tenders to the Governor-General, from
                            functions which in their nature are purely discretionary into functions
                            that are in any sense quasi-judicial. This being so [an
                        offender in a death sentence case] has no legal right to have disclosed to
                        him any material furnished to the [designated] Minister and the Advisory
                        Committee when they are exercising their respective functions under
                        sections 70 to 72 of the Constitution [of Trinidad and Tobago].
[emphasis added]
49     Some twenty years later, in 1996, the Privy
                    Council reviewed its approach in de Freitas and
                    affirmed it in Reckley, an appeal from the
                    Bahamas. The clemency regime in that jurisdiction is similar to the clemency
                    regime in Trinidad and Tobago, in that: (a) the prerogative of mercy is
                    exercised by the Governor-General on the advice of the designated Minister; and
                    (b) in a death sentence case, the designated Minister must place before the
                    advisory committee on the prerogative of mercy the trial judge’s report of
                    the case and such other information as he (the designated Minister) may require.
                    However, unlike the position in Trinidad and Tobago, in a death sentence case in
                    the Bahamas, the designated Minister is not
                    required to consult the advisory committee before he advises the
                    Governor-General on whether or not mercy should be granted to the offender
                    concerned. The designated Minister may consult the advisory committee if he
                    wishes, but even if he does do so, he is not obliged to accept its
                    advice.
50     In Reckley, the
                    offender in question (“TR”) was convicted of murder and sentenced
                    to death. His clemency petition to the designated Minister was rejected without
                    his being given the opportunity to see and comment on the trial judge’s
                    report and the other materials placed before the advisory committee. TR filed a
                    constitutional motion alleging that his constitutional rights would be violated
                    if he were executed without his having the opportunity to see those materials
                    and make representations to the advisory committee.
51     The Privy Council applied the principle laid
                    down in de Freitas and rejected TR’s
                    argument. Lord Goff of Chieveley, delivering the Privy Council’s
                    judgment, said that the observations of Lord Diplock in de Freitas were apposite to the corresponding provisions of the
                    Bahamian Constitution. At 539–540 of Reckley, Lord Goff said:
It is of some interest to observe that articles 90 to 92
                        of the present Bahamian Constitution first appeared in the Constitution of
                        1963, which came into force at a time before capital punishment was
                        abolished in Great Britain in 1965. At that time, there can be no doubt that
                        the status of the Home Secretary’s discretion in death sentence cases
                        in England was as described by Lord Diplock [in de
                            Freitas]; and it appears that the statutory intention, when
                        enacting articles 90 to 92 of the Bahamian Constitution of 1963, was to
                        replicate that discretion, save that the designated minister was to be
                        provided with the benefit of advice from an advisory committee. It was
                        recognised by Lord Diplock in Abbott v.
                            Attorney-General of Trinidad and Tobago [1979] 1 W.L.R.
                        1342, 1346, that section 89 of the Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago
                        (identical to article 92 of the Bahamian Constitution) imposes duties
                        upon the designated minister and the advisory committee arising under public
                        law; and further that no warrant of execution should be issued[:]
“until after the advisory committee has considered the case and
                            proffered its advice to the designated minister and the designated
                            minister has tendered his own advice (which may differ from that of the
                            advisory committee) to the President” – in [t]he Bahamas,
                            to the Governor-General.
Even so, their Lordships consider that the introduction
                            of the advisory committee, and the statutory provisions governing the
                            exercise of its functions in death sentence cases, reinforce
                            Lord Diplock’s analysis in de Freitas … [at] 247–248. First of all, it is
                        made plain that every death sentence case must be considered by the advisory
                        committee. There is no question of such consideration depending on any
                        initiative from the condemned man or his advisers. Second, despite the
                        obvious intention that the advisory committee shall be a group of
                        distinguished citizens, and despite the fact that the [designated] minister
                        is bound to consult with them in death sentence cases, he is not bound to
                        accept their advice. This provides a strong indication of an intention to preserve the status of the [designated]
                            minister’s discretion as a purely personal discretion,
                        while ensuring that he receives the benefit of advice from a reputable and
                        impartial source. Indeed it may be inferred that the reason why provision
                        was made in the [Bahamian] Constitution for an advisory committee was to
                        provide a constitutional safeguard in circumstances where the [designated]
                        minister’s discretionary power was of such a nature that it was not
                        subject to judicial review. Third, the material which has to be taken into
                        consideration at the meeting of the advisory committee is, apart from the
                        trial judge’s report, “such other information derived from the
                        record of the case or elsewhere as the minister may require.” This
                        provision, which is consistent with the practice formerly applicable in
                        England in the consideration of death sentence cases by the Home Secretary,
                        is inconsistent with the condemned man having a right to make
                        representations to the advisory committee.
The point can be placed in a broader context. A man accused of a capital
                        offence in [t]he Bahamas has of course his legal rights. In particular he is
                        entitled to the benefit of a trial before a judge and jury, with all the
                        rights which that entails. After conviction and sentence, he has a right to
                        appeal to the [Bahamian] Court of Appeal and, if his appeal is unsuccessful,
                        to petition for leave to appeal to the Privy Council. After his rights of
                        appeal are exhausted, he may still be able to invoke his fundamental rights
                        under the [Bahamian] Constitution. For a man is still entitled to his
                        fundamental rights, and in particular to his right to the protection of the
                        law, even after he has been sentenced to death. If therefore it is proposed
                        to execute him contrary to the law, for example because there has been such
                        delay that to execute him would constitute inhuman or degrading punishment,
                        or because there has been a failure to consult the Advisory Committee on the
                        Prerogative of Mercy as required by the [Bahamian] Constitution, then he can
                        apply to the [Bahamian] Supreme Court for redress under article 28 of
                        the [Bahamian] Constitution. But the actual exercise by
                            the designated minister of his discretion in death sentence cases is
                            different. It is concerned with a regime, automatically applicable,
                            under which the designated minister, having consulted with the advisory
                            committee, decides, in the exercise of his own personal discretion,
                            whether to advise the Governor-General that the law should or should not
                            take its course. Of its very nature the [designated] minister’s
                            discretion, if exercised in favour of the condemned man, will involve a
                            departure from the law. Such a decision is taken as an act of mercy or,
                            as it used to be said, as an act of grace. As Lord Diplock said
                            in de Freitas … [at] 247G:
                            “Mercy is not the subject of legal rights. It begins where legal
                            rights end.” And the act of the advisory committee in advising
                            the [designated] minister is of the same character as the act of the
                            [designated] minister in advising the
                        Governor-General.
[emphasis added]
52     Approximately five years later, in 2000, in
                        Lewis, an appeal from Jamaica, the majority of
                    the Privy Council (namely, Lord Slynn of Hadley, Lord Nicholls of
                    Birkenhead, Lord Steyn and Lord Hutton (collectively referred to
                    hereafter as “the majority in Lewis”)) departed from the earlier approach taken in
                        de Freitas and Reckley. The material facts of Lewis, which involved six offenders who had been convicted of
                    murder and sentenced to death (“the applicants in Lewis”), are, in simplified form, as
                follows.
53     Under s 90 of the Jamaican Constitution,
                    the Governor-General, acting on the advice of the Jamaican Privy Council
                    (“the JPC”), may grant clemency to an offender in a death sentence
                    case. In this regard, the Governor-General must forward to the JPC the trial
                    judge’s written report of the case and such other information as he (the
                    Governor-General) may require so that the JPC may advise him on whether or not
                    mercy should be granted to the offender concerned.
54     The applicants in Lewis, after exhausting all their domestic avenues for reprieve
                    from the death sentences imposed on them, applied to the United Nations Human
                    Rights Committee (“the UNHRC”) and the Inter-American Commission
                    on Human Rights (“the IACHR”) alleging breach of their human
                    rights. Pending the decision of these two international human rights bodies, the
                    JPC considered the clemency petitions of all the applicants in Lewis without their knowledge, without their seeing the
                    materials before the JPC and without their making representations to the JPC.
                    Acting on the JPC’s advice, the Governor-General declined to grant
                    clemency to all the applicants in Lewis, who then
                    brought judicial review proceedings to challenge the Governor-General’s
                    decision on the basis that their constitutional right to the protection of the
                    law had been violated since they had been denied natural justice by the JPC when
                    it considered their clemency petitions.
55     The majority in Lewis (Lord Hoffmann dissenting) ruled in favour of the
                    applicants in Lewis, holding that:
(a)     Although there was no legal right to
                        mercy, and although the merits of a decision of the Governor-General (acting
                        on the JPC’s advice) made pursuant to the prerogative of mercy were
                        not reviewable by the courts, the prerogative of mercy should nonetheless,
                        in the light of Jamaica’s international obligations, be exercised
                        pursuant to “procedures which [were] fair and proper and to that end
                        … subject to judicial review” (per Lord Slynn at 79).
(b)     In considering what natural justice required, it
                        was relevant to have regard to international human rights norms laid down in
                        treaties to which Jamaica was a party, regardless of whether or not the
                        provisions of those treaties were independently enforceable under
                        Jamaica’s domestic law.
(c)     In a death sentence case:
(i)       The offender was entitled
                            to have sufficient notice of the date on which the JPC would consider
                            his case so that he or his legal advisers could prepare representations.
                            The JPC was bound to consider such representations before deciding what
                            recommendation to give to the Governor-General vis-à-vis whether or not clemency should be granted to
                            the offender.
(ii)       When a report by an international human rights
                            body was available, the JPC should consider it and should give an
                            explanation if it did not accept the recommendations in the
                            report.
(iii)       The offender should normally be given a copy of all the documents
                            available to the JPC, and not merely the gist of those
                        documents.
(d)     The defects in the procedure adopted in relation to the clemency
                        petitions of the applicants in Lewis had
                        resulted in a breach of the rules of fairness and natural justice.
                        Accordingly, the applicants in Lewis had been
                        deprived of the protection of the law which they were entitled to either
                        under s 13(a) of the Jamaican Constitution (which provides that every
                        person in Jamaica is entitled to, inter alia,
                        “the protection of the law”) or at common
                law.
56     Lord Hoffmann issued a strong dissent in
                        Lewis, stating (at 87–89):
There are three questions which arise. The first (“the Jamaican
                        Privy Council issue”) is whether the [JPC], before deciding whether
                        or not to recommend to the Governor[-]General that a sentence of death be
                        commuted, is required to disclose to the prisoner the information which it
                        has received pursuant to section 91 of the [Jamaican] Constitution. The
                        second (“the Inter-American Commission issue”) is whether it
                        would be unlawful to execute a sentence of death while the prisoner’s
                        petition remained under consideration by the [IACHR]. … [The third
                        question set out by Lord Hoffmann is not relevant to the present appeal
                        and has thus been omitted from this quote.]
All … these questions have been considered and answered in recent
                        decisions of the Board. The Jamaican Privy Council issue was decided in the
                        negative in Reckley …, when the Board
                        decided not to depart from its earlier decision in de
                            Freitas … The Inter-American Commission issue was
                        decided in the negative in Fisher v Minister of Public
                            Safety and Immigration (No 2) [2000] 1 AC 434 and
                        most recently in Higgs v Minister of National
                            Security [2000] 2 AC 228. …
The Board now proposes to depart from its recent decisions on all [of the
                        above] points. I do not think that there is any
                            justification for doing so. It was appropriate in Reckley … for the Board to review its
                        previous decision in de Freitas …
                        Twenty years had passed, during which there had been important developments
                        in administrative law. In particular, the notion once entertained that an
                        exercise of the prerogative was, as such, immune from judicial review had
                        been repudiated by the House of Lords in [GCHQ]. It was arguable that the reluctance of the courts to
                        impose a general rule of audi alterem partem upon the exercise of the
                        prerogative of mercy was a mere relic of outdated theory. But the Board
                        decided in …
                        Reckley … that there were still, in
                        modern conditions, strong enough grounds for maintaining the old rule. In
                            Burt v Governor General [1992] 3 NZLR
                        672 Cooke P similarly decided that although there were no conceptual
                        obstacles to requiring the Governor[-]General to observe the principle of
                        audi alterem partem in exercising the prerogative of mercy, pragmatic
                        considerations in New Zealand pointed the other way. The Board in …
                        Reckley … took the same view of
                        conditions in the Caribbean in 1996. Nothing has happened since then which
                        could justify revisiting the decision not to depart from de Freitas …
On the Inter-American Commission issue, the majority have found in the
                        ancient concept of due process of law a philosopher’s stone undetected
                        by generations of judges which can convert the base metal of executive
                        action into the gold of legislative power. It does not however explain how
                        the trick is done. Fisher v Minister of Public Safety and
                            Immigration (No 2) [2000] 1 AC 434 and Higgs v Minister of National Security [2000]
                        2 AC 228 are overruled but the arguments stated succinctly in the
                        former and more elaborately in the latter are brushed aside rather than
                        confronted. In particular, there is no explanation of how, in the domestic
                        law of Jamaica, the proceedings before the [IACHR] constitute a legal
                        process (as opposed to the proceedings of any other non-governmental body)
                        which must be duly completed. Nor can there be any question of the
                        [applicants in Lewis] having a legitimate
                        expectation (as that term is understood in administrative law) that the
                        state would await a response to their petitions. All the petitions were
                        presented after the [Jamaican] government had issued the instructions
                        [prescribing time limits for applications to the UNHRC and/or the IACHR by
                        offenders sentenced to death, and stipulating that no further postponement
                        of execution would be granted after the expiry of those time limits] and a
                        legitimate expectation can hardly arise in the face of a clear existing
                        contrary statement of policy. …
[emphasis added]
57     Despite Lord Hoffmann’s powerful
                    dissent, the legal position in the Caribbean States generally after Lewis is that the clemency power is subject to judicial
                    review, although the merits of the clemency decision made in a particular case
                    remain non-justiciable (see, eg, the decision of
                    the Caribbean Court of Justice in Attorney-General and Others
                        v Joseph (Jeffrey) and Boyce (Lennox) (2006) 69 WIR 104
                        (“Joseph and Boyce”) and the
                    decision of the High Court of Trinidad and Tobago in Allan
                        Henry and others v The Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago and The
                        Commissioner of Prisons (1 December 2009,
                    unreported)).
(3)   The position in Canada
58     In Canada, the clemency power was held by
                    Reed J in Ivan William Mervin Henry v Minister of
                        Justice (1992) 54 FTR 153 to be reviewable. In this regard,
                    it appears that the Canadian position is that the clemency power is reviewable
                    on both procedural and substantive grounds, with the courts being prepared to
                    review a clemency decision on the merits in an
                    appropriate case. This emerges from the decision in Wilbert
                        Colin Thatcher v The Attorney General of Canada, The Honourable Allan Rock,
                        Minister of Justice, and the Attorney General of Saskatchewan
                    [1997] 1 FC 289 (“Thatcher”).
59     In Thatcher,
                    Rothstein J pointed out (at [6])
                    that ever since the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Operation Dismantle, Cabinet decisions made pursuant to
                    prerogative powers had been subject to judicial review for compatibility with
                    the Canadian Charter. Specifically, Rothstein J cited the following passage
                    from Dickson J’s judgment in Operation
                        Dismantle at 455:
… [C]abinet decisions fall under s. 32(1)(a) of the [Canadian] Charter [this provision sets out the
                        scope of application of the Canadian Charter] and are therefore reviewable
                        in the courts and subject to judicial scrutiny for compatibility with the
                        [Canadian] Constitution. … [T]he executive branch of the Canadian
                        government is duty bound to act in accordance with the dictates of the
                        [Canadian] Charter. [emphasis in original omitted]
In effect, Rothstein J held (in Thatcher) that the merits of a
                    clemency decision and the manner in which the
                    decision was made could be scrutinised for compatibility with, respectively, the
                    substantive rights and the procedural rights set out in the Canadian
                    Charter.
(4)   The position in Australia
60     The traditional position in Australia was set
                    out by the High Court of Australia in Horwitz v Connor,
                        Inspector General of Penal Establishments of Victoria (1908)
                    6 CLR 38 (“Horwitz v Connor”).
                    That case concerned an accused who had been sentenced to a total of six
                    years’ imprisonment. Midway through his term of imprisonment, a writ of
                        habeas corpus was issued directing his
                    immediate release from prison even though the Governor in Council had not
                    ordered remission of any part of the imprisonment term. The Supreme Court of
                    Victoria discharged the writ of habeas corpus. The
                    High Court of Australia refused to grant the accused special leave to appeal
                    against the Supreme Court of Victoria’s decision on the ground that (at
                    40) “no Court ha[d] jurisdiction to review the discretion of the Governor
                    in Council in the exercise of the prerogative of mercy”.
61     The position laid down in Horwitz v Connor was upheld by both Lander J at first
                    instance and the Court of Appeal of the Australian Capital Territory
                    (“ACT”) in Eastman v Australian Capital
                        Territory (2008) 227 FLR 262 (“Eastman (ACT)”). It should
                    be noted, however, that Lander J, while accepting that he was bound by
                        Horwitz v Connor, also stated (see [78]–[79] of Lander J’s judgment as reproduced at
                        [40] of Eastman
                        (ACT)):
… I am not, I think, prevented … from concluding that the
                        processes [pertaining to the exercise of the prerogative of mercy] …
                        are subject to judicial review.
I think therefore I am entitled to inquire into whether the decision-maker
                        in the Executive discharged its obligations at law in reaching its decision.
                        The decision itself is for the Executive and [is] not subject to review.
                        However, if the Executive has not conducted itself in accordance with the
                        law in reaching that decision and, in particular, [has] not observed the
                        rules of natural justice, the decision must be set aside.
In contrast, the ACT Court of Appeal appeared to take a narrower view.
                    It noted the Privy Council decisions (in appeals from the Caribbean States)
                    departing from the traditional view set out in Horwitz v
                        Connor (namely, that the prerogative of mercy was not
                    reviewable), but stated (see Eastman (ACT) at
                        [38]):
… [W]e are reluctant to treat those decisions as necessarily
                        offering a principled basis for departing from well-established legal
                        propositions. Similarly, we are not persuaded that we may depart from the
                        decision in Horwitz v Connor in the interests
                        of promoting a consistent body of administrative law. Until the High Court
                        [of Australia] holds to the contrary, the decision in Horwitz v Connor is binding on us.
62     The High Court of Australia dismissed the
                    application for special leave to appeal against the ACT Court of Appeal’s
                    decision (see David Harold Eastman v Australian Capital
                        Territory [2008] HCASL 553) on the ground (per Heydon and Kiefel JJ) that it was pointless to allow
                    the application since there was no reason to doubt the ACT Court of
                    Appeal’s decision on the particular issue which would form the crux of any
                    appeal against that decision. It should, however, be noted that Kirby J,
                    whilst agreeing with the decision to dismiss the application, stated (at
                        [2]) that in a proper case, judicial
                    review would be available as a matter of law (Heydon and Kiefel JJ did not
                    comment on this point in their joint judgment). Thus, it would appear that in
                    Australia, the law on whether the clemency power is reviewable by the courts is
                    not settled.
(5)   The position in New Zealand
63     Turning now to clemency cases from New
                    Zealand, the New Zealand Court of Appeal examined the justiciability of the
                    clemency power in Burt v Governor-General [1992]
                    3 NZLR 672 (“Burt”). The
                    appellant in that case (“Burt”) was convicted of murder and
                    sentenced to life imprisonment. His petition to the Governor-General in Council
                    for a full pardon was dismissed on the ground that the trial verdict could not
                    be considered unsafe. Under s 406 of the Crimes Act 1961 (NZ), the
                    Governor-General in Council, when considering a clemency petition, may (but is
                    not required to) refer to the New Zealand Court of Appeal either a question
                    relating to the petitioner’s conviction or sentence or any other point
                    arising in the clemency petition, whereupon the New Zealand Court of Appeal must
                    rule on the matter referred to it. In Burt, the
                    Governor-General in Council rejected Burt’s clemency petition without
                    referring any matter to the New Zealand Court of Appeal for its consideration.
                    Burt commenced judicial review proceedings, alleging that the Governor-General
                    in Council had failed to act fairly and reasonably in dealing with his clemency
                    petition. The Governor-General in Council applied to dismiss the action on the
                    ground that Burt had no reasonable cause of action since his complaint concerned
                    the exercise of a prerogative, rather than a statutory, power. The
                    Governor-General in Council’s application was allowed at first instance,
                    whereupon Burt appealed.
64     The New Zealand Court of Appeal dismissed
                    Burt’s appeal. Cooke P, who delivered the judgment of the court,
                    acknowledged that the argument that the prerogative of mercy was justiciable, at
                    least to the extent of ensuring that elementary standards of fair procedure were
                    followed, “[could not] by any means be brushed aside as absurd, extreme
                    or contrary to principle” (at 681), partly because the issues raised by a
                    clemency petition were often not foreign at all to the judicial function.
                    Nevertheless, after referring to the various safeguards in New Zealand against
                    wrongful convictions and unfair procedures, Cooke P held that (at 683)
                    “no pressing reason ha[d] been made out for altering the practice
                    regarding the [r]oyal prerogative of mercy”.
(6)   The position in India
65     In India, the clemency power is subject to
                    judicial review. In Maru Ram v Union of India and
                        others (1981) 1 SCC 107 (“Maru
                        Ram”), a decision by a five-member bench of the Supreme
                    Court of India, it was held in the joint judgment of three of the judges
                        (viz, Y V Chandrachud CJ,
                    P N Bhagwati J and V R Krishna Iyer J) that (at
                        [62]):
Wide as the power of pardon, commutation and release … is, it
                        cannot run riot; for no legal power can run unruly like John Gilpin on the
                        horse but must keep sensibly to a steady course. … [A]ll public power, including constitutional power, shall
                        never be exercis[ed] arbitrarily or mala fide and, ordinarily, guidelines
                        for fair and equal execution are guarantors of the valid play of power. We
                        proceed on the basis that these axioms are valid in our constitutional
                        order. [emphasis in original]
The position laid down in Maru Ram was
                    followed by a two-member bench of the Indian Supreme Court in Epuru Sudhakar and another v Govt of A P and others (2006)
                    8 SCC 161 (“Epuru Sudhakar”),
                    where the court held (at [22]) that it
                    was “fairly well settled that the exercise or non-exercise of pardon
                    power by the President or Governor, as the case [might] be, [was] not immune
                    from judicial review”.
66     
          Epuru Sudhakar
                    is an instructive case on the legal limits of judicial review of the clemency
                    power. In that case, the sons of the deceased, who had been murdered by the
                    second respondent, sought judicial review of the order of the Governor of Andhra
                    Pradesh (“the Andhra Pradesh Governor”) remitting seven years out
                    of the ten-year imprisonment sentence which had been imposed on the second
                    respondent upon his conviction for murder. The Andhra Pradesh Governor had made
                    the remission order on the basis of, inter alia,
                    erroneous statements that the second respondent was “a good Congress
                    worker” [emphasis in original omitted] (see Epuru
                        Sudhakar at [55]) and had
                    been falsely implicated in the murder, which had allegedly been committed by
                    another respondent. The Indian Supreme Court held that the clemency process had
                    been tainted by not only the misleading information placed before the Andhra
                    Pradesh Governor, but also the Andhra Pradesh Governor’s conduct in taking
                    into account the assertion that the second respondent was “a good
                    Congress worker” [emphasis in original omitted] (see Epuru Sudhakar at [55]).
                    That factor, the Indian Supreme Court held, had “no relevance to the
                    objects sought to be achieved i.e. the consideration of the question whether
                    pardon/remission was to be granted” (see Epuru
                        Sudhakar at [56]). As the
                    remission order had been made based on extraneous and irrelevant grounds, the
                    Indian Supreme Court set it aside.
(7)   The position in Hong Kong
67     In Hong Kong, the legal position on the
                    justiciability of the clemency power is similar to the English position
                        post-Bentley. This can be seen from the Hong
                    Kong High Court case of Ch’ng Poh v The Chief Executive
                        of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Case No 182
                    of 2002 (3 December 2003, unreported) (“Ch’ng Poh”), where Hartmann J held (at
                        [38]) that while the merits of any clemency decision made by the Chief
                    Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
                    Republic of China (“SAR Chief Executive”) pursuant to
                    Art 48(12) of the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
                    of the People’s Republic of China (“the Basic Law”) were not
                    subject to judicial review, the lawfulness of the
                    process by which such a decision was made was open to judicial review. His
                    Honour explained that this was because although the Basic Law gave the SAR Chief
                    Executive prerogative powers, it did not seek to place him above the law as his
                    powers were defined and constrained by the Basic Law, the office of SAR Chief
                    Executive being a creature of that law (at [35]).
(8)   The position in Malaysia
68     In Malaysia, the courts have consistently held
                    that both the clemency power and the merits of a clemency decision cannot be
                    questioned by the courts. In Public Prosecutor v Soon Seng
                        Sia Heng [1979] 2 MLJ 170, which concerned (inter alia) the decision of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong to
                    commute the death sentence of an offender who had, at the age of 14, been
                    convicted and sentenced to death under the Emergency (Security Cases)
                    Regulations 1975, the Federal Court made no order on the application for the
                    Yang di-Pertuan Agong’s decision to be reviewed, stating (at 171 per Suffian LP):
When considering whether to confirm, commute, remit or pardon, His Majesty
                        does not sit as a court, is entitled to take into consideration matters
                        which courts bound by the law of evidence cannot take into account, and
                        decides each case on grounds of public policy; such decisions are a matter
                        solely for the executive. We cannot confirm or vary them; we have no
                        jurisdiction to do so. The royal prerogative of mercy, as is recognised by
                        its inclusion in Chapter 3 Part IV of the [Malaysian]
                        Constitution, is an executive power …
69     The Federal Court took the same approach in
                        Chow Thiam Guan v Superintendent of Pudu Prison & The
                        Government of Malaysia and Connected Appeals [1983] 2 MLJ
                    116 (“Chow Thiam Guan”). That case
                    concerned an application by the appellant for the execution of the death
                    sentence imposed on him to be stayed pending the hearing of an appeal which he
                    had filed in the Federal Court on the sole ground that the death sentence was
                    unconstitutional. The Federal Court, citing de
                        Freitas, held that the courts had no jurisdiction to deal with
                    the stay application as “[a]ny stay of execution would be … an
                    extension of the prerogative of mercy, [which was] exercisable only by His
                    Majesty the Yang di-Pertuan Agong in accordance with Article 42 of the
                    [Malaysian] Constitution” (at 119).
70     
          Chow Thiam Guan
                    was followed in Sim Kie Chon v Superintendent of Pudu Prisons
                        & Ors [1985] 2 MLJ 385, a decision of the Supreme Court
                    of Malaysia. The appellant in that case (“Sim”), who had been
                    sentenced to death and who had exhausted all his avenues of appeal, filed an
                    action against (inter alia) the Pardons Board,
                    alleging that it had not considered his clemency petition properly. The High
                    Court of Malaysia struck out the action. On appeal, the Malaysian Supreme Court
                    upheld that order, stating (at 387):
… [P]roceedings in Court aimed at questioning the propriety or
                        otherwise of such a decision [viz, a decision
                        made in the exercise of the prerogative of mercy] are … not
                        justiciable. By the same token[,] a contention of any violation of the
                        fundamental right which rests wholly on or [is] dependent upon such an
                        allegation is also not justiciable. It is our considered view that the power
                        of mercy is a high prerogative exercisable by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong
                        …, who acts with the greatest conscience and care and without fear of
                        influence from any quarter … ([s]ee Hanratty …).
A second challenge by Sim to the rejection of his clemency petition
                    was dismissed in Superintendent of Pudu Prison & Ors v
                        Sim Kie Chon [1986] 1 MLJ 494 (“Sim Kie Chon (No 2)”) by the Malaysian Supreme
                    Court, which held (at 497):
… [W]hen the Constitution has empowered the nation’s highest
                        executive as the repository of the clemency power, the court cannot
                        intervene and judicial review is excluded by implication.
71     The case which bears the closest factual
                    correspondence to the present case is Karpal Singh v Sultan
                        of Selangor [1988] 1 MLJ 64 (“Karpal Singh”). In that case, the applicant applied for a
                    declaration that a public statement allegedly made by the Sultan of Selangor
                    (“the Selangor Sultan”) and reported in two English newspapers
                    –
                    viz, that he would not pardon anyone who had been
                    sentenced to the mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking in Selangor
                    – was in violation of Art 42 of the Malaysian Constitution as the
                    Selangor Sultan had effectively predetermined any clemency petition which might
                    be filed by a convicted drug trafficker. The applicant contended that the
                    Selangor Sultan could only reject a petition for clemency after considering the
                    advice of the Selangor Pardons Board and then applying his mind to the petition
                    before him. The Chief Justice of Malaysia dismissed the application on the
                    ground that the allegation had not been proved, and, therefore, the issue was
                    hypothetical. He also held, citing Sim Kie Chon
                        (No 2), that “an issue concerning the process of
                    clemency … [was] clearly non-justiciable” (see Karpal Singh at 67), and stated that “mercy [was] not the
                    subject of legal rights” (at 66).
72     Most recently, in Juraimi
                        bin Husin v Pardons Board, State of Pahang & Ors [2002]
                    4 MLJ 529 (“Juraimi bin
                    Husin”), the Federal Court applied Lord Roskill’s
                        obiter dictum in GCHQ that the prerogative of mercy was not justiciable. In
                        Juraimi bin Husin, the appellant (who had been
                    sentenced to death for murder) submitted a clemency petition to the Sultan of
                    Pahang. His petition was rejected. He applied for a stay of execution of his
                    death sentence pending his application to challenge the constitutionality of the
                    rejection of his clemency petition. The High Court of Malaysia referred to the
                    Federal Court for determination the question of whether the courts could review
                    the decision-making process of the Sultan of Pahang vis-à-vis the clemency power in Art 15 of the Laws of the
                    Constitution of Pahang, read with Art 42 of the Malaysian Constitution. The
                    Federal Court answered this question in the negative, stating (at 537):
… [T]he effect of making the decision making process justiciable
                        would, in the final analysis, make the decision itself [vulnerable] to be
                        held null and void. This would have the same effect as [making] the decision
                        itself justiciable. Consequently, we are of the view that any attempt to
                        make the decision process justiciable would indirectly make the decision
                        itself justiciable.
In other words, the court held that since the clemency decision made
                    in any given case was not justiciable, the process of making that decision was
                    also not justiciable.
Analysis of the position in Singapore 
73     I turn now to analyse what the legal position
                    in Singapore is vis-à-vis the justiciability of
                    the clemency power.
74     I start by stating that the clemency power is
                    a legal power of an extraordinary character. It is unlike all other legal powers
                    in that:
(a)     It is an executive power which is
                        exercised as an act of executive grace and not as a matter of legal right
                        (see, eg, de
                            Freitas and Reckley).
(b)     A decision to grant clemency is “[a] determination of the
                        ultimate authority that the public welfare will be better served by
                        inflicting less [punishment] than what the judgment fixed” (per Oliver Wendell Holmes J in Biddle, Warden v Perovich 274 US 480 (1927)
                            (“Biddle v Perovich”) at
                        486). Conversely, a decision not to grant clemency represents a
                        determination by the ultimate authority that the public welfare is better
                        served by allowing the law to take its course, ie, by carrying out the punishment prescribed by the
                        law.
(c)     Ordinarily, the law should be allowed to take its course. However, when the
                        clemency power is exercised in favour of an offender, it will
                        “involve a departure from the law” (per Lord Goff in Reckley
                        at 540) in that, in the interests of the public welfare, the law (in terms
                        of the punishment mandated by the law) is prevented from taking its
                        course.
(d)     The
                        considerations of public welfare that the ultimate authority deems relevant
                        in making a clemency decision are entirely a matter of policy for it to
                        decide. As was said by S H Kapadia J at [65] of Epuru
                            Sudhakar (a decision relied upon by Mr Ravi),
                        “[t]he President and the Governor [viz,
                        the ultimate authority in the context of India’s clemency regime] are
                        the sole judges of the sufficiency of facts and of the appropriateness of
                        granting … pardons and reprieves”.
(e)     In the specific context of a death
                        sentence case (which is also the context of the present appeal), the grant
                        of clemency to the offender confers a gift of life on him. This is because
                        the offender has effectively already been deprived of his life by the law
                        due to his conviction for a capital offence. If clemency is granted to the
                        offender, his life will be restored to him, whereas if clemency is not
                        granted, his life will be forfeited as decreed by the law. In other words,
                        in a death sentence case, the clemency decision made, be it in favour of or
                        against the offender, does not deprive the
                        offender of his life; the law (in terms of the conviction and death sentence
                        meted out on the offender by a court of law) has already done
                    so.
75     Given that the clemency power is a
                    constitutional power vested exclusively in the Executive, it is not justiciable
                        on the merits, firstly, on the basis of the
                    doctrine of separation of powers (see sub-para (d) of [74] above) and, secondly, on the basis of
                    established administrative law principles (see, eg, Chandler at 809–810
                        per Lord Devlin and Operation Dismantle at 470 per
                    Wilson J). In our local context, this entails that, assuming the clemency
                    power is exercised in accordance with law, the merits of the clemency decision
                    made will fall outside the purview of our courts. Our courts cannot look into
                    whether a clemency decision is wise or foolish, harsh or kind; neither can they
                    substitute their own decision for the clemency decision made by the President
                    simply because they disagree with the President’s view on the matter. This
                    principle is common ground between the parties in the present
                appeal.
76     However, this conclusion –
                    viz, that the merits of a clemency decision are
                    not reviewable by our courts – does not, in my view, entail that the
                    clemency power in our constitutional context is therefore an
                    “extra-legal” power in the sense of being a power beyond any legal
                    constraints or restraints. In this regard, the following observations of the
                    Indian Supreme Court in Maru Ram (another decision
                    relied upon by Mr Ravi) are pertinent:
62.    … Wide as the power of pardon … is,
                            it cannot run riot; for no legal power can run unruly like John Gilpin
                            on the horse but must keep sensibly to a steady course. … [A]ll
                                public power, including constitutional
                            power, shall never be exercis[ed] arbitrarily or mala fide and,
                            ordinarily, guidelines for fair and equal execution are guarantors of
                            the valid play of power. We proceed on the basis that these axioms are
                            valid in our constitutional order.
…
65.    Pardon, using this expression in the amplest
                            connotation, ordains fair exercise, as we have indicated above.
                            Political vendetta or party favouritism cannot but be interlopers in
                            this area. The order which is the product of extraneous or mala fide
                            factors will vitiate the exercise. While constitutional power is beyond
                            challenge, its actual exercise may still be vulnerable. Likewise,
                            capricious criteria will void the exercise. For example, if the Chief
                            Minister of a State releases everyone in the prisons in his State on his
                            birthday or because a son has been born to him, it will be an outrage on
                            the [Indian] Constitution to let such madness survive.
                        …
[emphasis in original]
77     In my view, the aforesaid observations of the
                    Indian Supreme Court are equally applicable to the clemency power under
                    Art 22P. They are substantially a restatement of the Chng Suan Tze principle that no legal power – including a
                    constitutional power (see [79]–[80] below)
                    – is beyond the reach of the supervisory jurisdiction of the courts if it
                    is exercised beyond its legal limits (ie,
                        ultra vires the enabling law) or if it is
                    exercised mala fide (ie, for an extraneous purpose).
78     In Chng Suan
                    Tze, this court formulated the Chng Suan
                        Tze principle as follows (at [86]):
In our view, the notion of a subjective or unfettered discretion is
                        contrary to the rule of law. All power has legal limits and the rule of law
                        demands that the courts should be able to examine the exercise of
                        discretionary power.
More accurately stated, the principle is that “all legal powers … have legal limits[;] [t]he notion
                    of a subjective or unfettered discretion is contrary to the rule of law”
                    [emphasis added] (see Law Society of Singapore v Tan Guat Neo
                        Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239 (“Phyllis Tan”) at [149]; see also Raja Azlan Shah Ag CJ’s
                    statement in the Malaysian Federal Court case of Pengarah
                        Tanah Dan Galian, Wilayah Persekutuan v Sri Lempah Enterprise Sdn
                        Bhd [1979] 1 MLJ 135 (at 148) that “[e]very legal
                    power must have legal limits, otherwise there is
                dictatorship”).
79     Significantly, after Chng
                        Suan Tze was decided, Parliament enacted the Constitution of the
                    Republic of Singapore (Amendment) Act 1989 (Act 1 of 1989) to amend
                    Art 149 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed)
                    by inserting what is now Art 149(3) of the Singapore Constitution. The
                    effect of this constitutional amendment was to restrict our courts’
                    supervisory jurisdiction, apropos national security decisions made under the
                    Internal Security Act (Cap 143, 1985 Rev Ed), to reviewing such
                    decisions for procedural improprieties only. Save for this limitation,
                    Parliament left untouched the full amplitude of the Chng Suan
                        Tze principle, and thereby implicitly endorsed it. Thus, in
                        Phyllis Tan, this court stated that the
                        Chng Suan Tze principle, which was applied to
                    a statutory power in Chng Suan
                        Tze (viz, the power to make
                    detention orders and to suspend such orders under, respectively, s 8 and
                    s 10 of the Internal Security Act), was also applicable to a constitutional power (viz,
                    the Attorney-General’s prosecutorial power under Art 35(8) of the
                    Singapore Constitution).
80     Specifically, what this court said in
                        Phyllis Tan was as follows (at [149]):
The discretionary power to prosecute under the [Singapore] Constitution is
                        not absolute. It must be exercised in good faith for the purpose [for which]
                        it is intended, ie, to convict and punish
                        offenders, and not for an extraneous purpose. As the Court of Appeal said in
                            Chng Suan Tze … at [86], all legal powers, even a
                        constitutional power, have legal limits. The notion of a subjective or
                        unfettered discretion is contrary to the rule of law. In our view, the
                        exercise of the prosecutorial discretion is subject to judicial review in
                        two situations: first, where the prosecutorial power is abused, ie, where it is exercised in bad faith for an
                        extraneous purpose, and second, where its exercise contravenes
                        constitutional protections and rights (for example, a discriminatory
                        prosecution which results in an accused being deprived of his right to
                        equality under the law and the equal protection of the law under Art 12
                        of the [Singapore] Constitution).
On the basis of the Chng Suan Tze
                    principle as elaborated on in Phyllis Tan, our
                    courts must have the power to review the clemency power under Art 22P on
                    the same legal basis as that stated in the above quotation.
81     A further reason (apart from the Chng Suan Tze principle) for holding that the clemency
                    power is amenable to judicial review lies in the specific procedural safeguards
                    prescribed by Art 22P for the conduct of the clemency process in death
                    sentence cases. Article 22P, which is set out in full below, makes it clear
                    that these procedural safeguards apply only to death sentence cases, and are
                    inapplicable to non-death sentence cases:

22P.—(1) The
                        President, as occasion shall arise, may, on the advice of the
                        Cabinet —
(a)    grant a pardon
                                to any accomplice in any offence who gives information which leads
                                to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of the
                                principal offenders, if more than one;
(b)    grant to any
                                offender convicted of any offence in any court in Singapore, a
                                pardon, free or subject to lawful conditions, or any reprieve or
                                respite, either indefinite or for such period as the President may
                                think fit, of the execution of any sentence pronounced on such
                                offender; or
(c)    remit the whole
                                or any part of such sentence or of any penalty or forfeiture imposed
                                by law.
(2)    Where any offender has been condemned to death by
                            the sentence of any court and in the event of an appeal such sentence
                            has been confirmed by the appellate court, the President shall cause the
                            reports which are made to him by the Judge who tried the case and the
                            Chief Justice or other presiding Judge of the appellate court to be
                            forwarded to the Attorney-General with instructions that, after the
                            Attorney-General has given his opinion thereon, the reports shall be
                            sent, together with the Attorney-General’s opinion, to the Cabinet
                            so that the Cabinet may advise the President on the exercise of the
                            power conferred on him by clause (1).
82     Unlike the position in non-death sentence
                    cases, in a death sentence case, the President is required under Art 22P(2)
                    to cause the report of the trial judge and (where there is an appeal from the
                    trial judge’s decision) the report of the presiding judge of the appellate
                    court to be sent to the Attorney-General, who must give his opinion thereon. The
                    Attorney-General’s opinion and the aforesaid report(s), which collectively
                    form the Art 22P(2) materials in a death sentence case, must then be sent
                    to the Cabinet so that the Cabinet may advise the President on the exercise of
                    the clemency power. In my view, the requirement that the trial judge’s
                    report, the report of the presiding judge of the appellate court (where there is
                    an appeal) and the Attorney-General’s opinion on the report(s) must be
                    sent to the Cabinet for its consideration necessarily implies a constitutional
                    duty on the Cabinet’s part to consider those materials impartially and in
                    good faith before it advises the President on the exercise of the clemency
                    power.
83     It therefore follows that if, hypothetically
                    speaking, conclusive evidence is produced to the court to show that the Cabinet
                    never met to consider the offender’s case at all, or that the Cabinet did
                    not consider the Art 22P(2) materials placed before it and merely tossed a
                    coin to determine what advice to give to the President (see, in this regard, the
                    example given in Lewis at 76), the Cabinet would
                    have acted in breach of Art 22P(2). If the courts cannot intervene to
                    correct a breach of Art 22P of this nature, the rule of law would be
                    rendered nugatory. In this regard, it should be noted that in Singapore (just as
                    in many other common law jurisdictions which have elevated the clemency power
                    from a common law prerogative power to a constitutional power under a written
                    Constitution), the making of a clemency decision pursuant to Art 22P is now
                    “not a private act of grace from an individual happening to possess power
                    … [but] a part of the [c]onstitutional scheme” (see Biddle v Perovich at 486; see also Epuru Sudhakar at [62]).
84     My conclusion that the clemency power is
                    subject to judicial review may also be said to be a corollary of the right to
                    life and personal liberty guaranteed by Art 9(1) of the Singapore
                    Constitution, which provides that “[n]o person shall be deprived of his
                    life or personal liberty save in accordance with law”. In Reckley, Lord Goff said at 540 (also reproduced at
                        [51] above):
A man accused of a capital offence in [t]he Bahamas has of course his
                        legal rights. In particular he is entitled to the benefit of a trial before
                        a judge and jury, with all the rights which that entails. After conviction
                        and sentence, he has a right to appeal to the [Bahamian] Court of Appeal
                        and, if his appeal is unsuccessful, to petition for leave to appeal to the
                        Privy Council. After his rights of appeal are exhausted, he may still be
                        able to invoke his fundamental rights under the [Bahamian] Constitution.
                            For a man is still entitled to his fundamental
                            rights, and in particular to his right to the protection of the law,
                            even after he has been sentenced to death. If therefore it is
                        proposed to execute him contrary to the law, for example … because
                        there has been a failure to consult the Advisory Committee on the
                        Prerogative of Mercy as required by the [Bahamian] Constitution, then he can
                        apply to the [Bahamian] Supreme Court for redress under article 28 of
                        the [Bahamian] Constitution. [emphasis added]
85     I agree with this statement of law
                    (interpreted mutatis mutandis) as regards the
                    applicability of Art 9(1) of the Singapore Constitution to the clemency
                    process, not because an offender has any constitutional or legal right or even
                    any expectation with respect to the grant of clemency to him, but because the
                    requirements of Art 22P(2) must be complied with as that is what the law
                    mandates. As just pointed out at [82]–[83] above, in a
                    death sentence case, the Cabinet must consider impartially and in good faith the
                    Art 22P(2) materials submitted to it before it advises the President on how
                    the clemency power should be exercised. That said, I reiterate that a decision
                    not to exercise the clemency power in favour of the offender in a death sentence
                    case does not, in the legal sense, deprive him of
                    his life or personal liberty since he has already been sentenced to death by a
                    court in accordance with law (see sub-para (e) of [74] above). If clemency is granted to an offender in a death
                    sentence case, it restores to him his life, which the law has already decreed is
                    to be forfeited.
The Natural Justice Issue 
86     I turn now to the Natural Justice Issue,
                        ie, the question of whether breach of natural
                    justice is an applicable ground for reviewing the clemency process (as defined
                    at sub-para (c) of [15] above), and, if
                    it is, whether the clemency process vis-à-vis the
                    Appellant has been tainted by apparent bias in the present case as a result of
                    the Law Minister’s statements.
The rules of natural justice in administrative law
87     In arguing that there has been a breach of
                    natural justice in the present case, Mr Ravi relied on two specific rules
                    applicable in Singapore as well as in Commonwealth jurisdictions to judicial
                    review of administrative decisions (see William Wade & Christopher Forsyth,
                        Administrative Law (Oxford University Press,
                    10th Ed, 2009) at p 372). In my discussion of the Natural Justice
                    Issue, I shall refer to these two rules collectively as “the
                    administrative law rules of natural justice” so as to distinguish them
                    from the “fundamental rules of natural justice” discussed by
                    Lord Diplock in the Privy Council cases of Ong Ah Chuan
                        v Public Prosecutor [1981] AC 648 (“Ong
                        Ah Chuan”) (at, inter alia,
                    671) and Haw Tua Tau v Public Prosecutor [1982] AC
                    136 (“Haw Tua Tau”) (at, inter alia, 153), which rules will hereafter be termed
                    “the Ong Ah Chuan rules of natural
                    justice”.
88     The two specific rules which make up the
                    administrative law rules of natural justice are the following:
(a)     the rule encapsulated by the maxim
                            “nemo iudex in sua causa”
                        (“no one shall be a judge in his own cause”), which I shall
                        hereafter refer to as “the rule against bias”, as this rule is
                        more commonly known; and
(b)     the rule encapsulated by the maxim “audi alteram partem” (“hear the other
                        side”), which I shall hereafter refer to as “the hearing
                        rule”.
A breach of either of these rules in the
                    course of making an administrative decision is an established ground for setting
                    aside the decision in judicial review proceedings. The issue in the present
                    appeal is whether the administrative law rules of natural justice apply to the
                    clemency process as well.
89     Before I proceed to analyse this issue, I
                    should highlight two points concerning my use of the terms “bias”
                    and “the rule against bias” in this part of my
                judgment.
90     First, unless otherwise indicated, the word
                    “bias” should be understood as denoting both actual bias and
                    apparent bias since the legal objection to apparent bias applies a fortiori to actual bias, especially bias that amounts
                    to a predetermination of the relevant matter to be decided. Correspondingly, the
                    expression “the rule against bias” will, unless otherwise
                    indicated, cover both actual bias and apparent bias. (In this regard, there will
                    be instances in the discussion below where I shall refer to apparent bias and
                    the rule against apparent bias specifically in keeping with the basis on which
                    this case was argued in the court below.)
91     Second, the rule against bias is different from and should not be equated with the constitutional prohibition against
                        discrimination, ie, the protection against unequal treatment conferred by
                    Art 12 of the Singapore Constitution. What the rule against bias prohibits
                    is a person acting as a judge in his own cause in any matter
                        where there is an actual or potential conflict of interest. As
                    stated in Lord Woolf, Jeffrey Jowell & Andrew Le Sueur, De Smith’s Judicial Review (Sweet & Maxwell,
                    6th Ed, 2007) (“De Smith”) at
                    para 10-006:
The principle expressed in the maxim nemo iudex in sua
                            causa (no one should be a judge in his own cause) refers not
                        only to the fact that no one shall adjudicate his own case; it also refers
                        to the fact that no one should adjudicate a matter in which he has a
                        conflicting interest. In order to give effect to those two aspects of the
                        principle, the concern is not only to prevent the distorting influence of
                            actual bias, but also to protect the
                        integrity of the decision-making process by ensuring that, however
                        disinterested the decision-maker is in fact, the circumstances should not
                        give rise to the appearance of bias. As has
                        been famously said: “justice should not only be done, but should
                        manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done”. [emphasis in
                        original]
The parties’ arguments
92     Before the Judge, Mr Ravi argued that the
                    administrative law rules of natural justice applied to the clemency process, and
                    that pursuant to (specifically) the rule against bias, apparent bias in the
                    course of the clemency process would vitiate the clemency decision made at the
                    end of that process. In contrast, the Respondent’s position was that since
                    the clemency power was not justiciable, apparent bias was not a ground which
                    could be invoked to challenge the clemency process in any given case. The Judge
                    held that “apparent bias [was] not an available ground on which to review
                    the clemency process” (see sub-para (b) of [85] of the HC Judgment), but it is not clear
                    from the context whether he was holding that the clemency power was not
                    justiciable per se, or that it was not justiciable
                    on the facts before him.
93     In the present appeal, Mr Ravi’s
                    contention is that the clemency process is an integral part of the process of
                    depriving a person of his life “in accordance with law” for the
                    purposes of Art 9(1) of the Singapore Constitution. According to
                    Mr Ravi, the term “law” in Art 9(1) (and likewise
                    Art 12(1), which protects a person from discriminatory laws and/or actions)
                    incorporates the administrative law rules of natural justice, and, thus, the
                    clemency process must comply with those rules.
94     As authority for his proposition, Mr Ravi
                    cited Lord Diplock’s pronouncement in Ong Ah
                        Chuan (at 670–671) on the meaning of the word
                    “law” as used in the then equivalent of Arts 9(1) and 12(1)
                    of the Singapore Constitution, as follows:
In a Constitution founded on the Westminster model and particularly in
                        that part of it that purports to assure to all individual citizens the
                        continued enjoyment of fundamental liberties or rights, references to
                        “law” in such contexts as “in accordance with
                        law,” “equality before the law,” “protection of
                        the law” and the like … refer to a system of law which
                        incorporates those fundamental rules of natural justice that had formed part
                        and parcel of the common law of England that was in operation in Singapore
                        at the commencement of the Constitution. It would have been taken for
                        granted by the makers of the Constitution that the “law” to
                        which citizens could have recourse for the protection of fundamental
                        liberties assured them by the Constitution would be a system of law that did
                        not flout those fundamental rules. If it were otherwise it would be [a]
                        misuse of language to speak of law as something which affords
                        “protection” for the individual in the enjoyment of his
                        fundamental liberties, and the purported entrenchment (by article 5) of
                        articles 9(1) and 12(1) would be little better than a mockery.
Mr Ravi also referred to: (a) Haw Tua
                        Tau, where the Privy Council (likewise per Lord Diplock) reiterated its views as set out in the
                    above passage from Ong Ah Chuan; (b) the
                    decision of the Caribbean Court of Justice in Joseph and
                        Boyce (at [62]–[64]); and
                    (c) the decision of the Court of Appeal of Guyana in Abdool Salim Yasseen and Thomas v Attorney-General (1996)
                    62 WIR 98, where George JA referred (at 113–114) to the above
                    extract from Ong Ah Chuan.
95     In contrast, the Respondent’s case on
                    the Natural Justice Issue in this appeal is that, as argued in the court below,
                    the administrative law rules of natural justice do not apply to the clemency
                    process because the clemency power is not justiciable. The Respondent submits
                    that the extraordinary nature of the clemency power renders it unsuitable for
                    the clemency process to be subjected to the administrative law rules of natural
                    justice, which sit most comfortably in the context of judicial and
                    quasi-judicial decisions that involve the determination of rights and remedies.
                    In support of this proposition, the Respondent cited Ch’ng Poh, where Hartmann J, in discussing the
                    exercise of the clemency power set out in Art 48(12) of the Basic Law, said
                    (at [111]) that “it would be
                    wrong in principle for [the] court to impose judicial or quasi-judicial
                    procedures and attitudes on what [was] the essence of an executive act”.
                    The Respondent also referred to Thatcher (a case
                    cited by Mr Ravi as well), where Rothstein J made the point that the
                    duty of fairness on the part of the Minister of Justice (viz, the ultimate authority in the Canadian context) must
                    necessarily be “less than that applicable to judicial proceedings”
                    (at [13]), and that even within the
                    context of s 7 of the Canadian Charter (which expressly provides for the
                    application of “the principles of fundamental justice”), all that
                    the Canadian Charter required in the clemency context was that the Minister of
                    Justice must “act in good faith and conduct a meaningful review”
                    (at [13]) of each clemency case before
                    him.
96     Another reason advanced by the Respondent as
                    to why the rule against apparent bias specifically is not applicable to the
                    clemency process is that this conclusion is supported by the very terms of
                    Art 22P itself. In a death sentence case, Art 22P(2) requires the
                    Attorney-General, who (in his capacity as the Public Prosecutor) initiated the
                    criminal proceedings against the offender concerned, to give his opinion on the
                    trial judge’s report on the case and (if there is an appeal from the trial
                    judge’s decision) the report of the presiding judge of the appellate
                    court. This, in the Respondent’s view, is further indication that the rule
                    against apparent bias has no application to the clemency process.
97     The Respondent argues that even if the
                    clemency process is subject to procedural fairness as manifested in the
                    administrative law rules of natural justice (which is what Mr Ravi
                    contends), the only procedural requirements are those set out in Art 22P,
                    and that to superimpose the administrative law rules of natural justice onto the
                    clemency process would result in the unwarranted creation of new constitutional
                    rights within the clemency regime by way of judicial pronouncement. In this
                    regard, the Respondent emphasises that an offender has no legal right to
                    mercy.
98     For the foregoing reasons, the Respondent
                    contends that the administrative law rules of natural justice have no
                    application to the clemency process, although he “does
                        not dispute that the rule against bias is a fundamental principle of natural
                        justice”[note: 15]
                    [emphasis added].
Whether the administrative law rules of natural justice apply to the
                clemency process
The conceptual distinction between the administrative law rules of
                natural justice and the Ong Ah Chuan rules of natural justice
99     In assessing the merits of the parties’
                    respective arguments on the applicability or otherwise of the administrative law
                    rules of natural justice to the clemency process, it is important to bear in
                    mind the conceptual difference between these rules
                    and the Ong Ah Chuan rules of natural justice.
                    This conceptual difference is best appreciated by examining the context in which
                    the pronouncements on the Ong Ah Chuan rules of
                    natural justice were made in Ong Ah Chuan and
                        Haw Tua Tau.
100    In Ong Ah
                        Chuan, one of the issues before the Privy Council was whether
                    s 15 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (Act 5 of 1973), which provided
                    that a person who had in his possession more than 2g of diamorphine would be
                    presumed, unless the contrary was proved, to have had the drug in his possession
                    for the purpose of trafficking, was unconstitutional. The appellants argued that
                    the presumption in s 15 (“the s 15 presumption”)
                    violated the then equivalent of Art 9(1) of the Singapore Constitution as
                    it replaced the presumption of innocence with the presumption of guilt, and also
                    violated the then equivalent of Art 12(1) of the Singapore Constitution as
                    it amounted to a denial of the equal protection of the law. In the course of the
                    hearing, Lord Diplock asked counsel for the Public Prosecutor if the Public
                    Prosecutor was contending that “provided a statute [was] an Act of the
                    Singapore Parliament[,] then however unfair or absurd or oppressive it [might]
                    be[,] it [was] justified by article 9(1)” (see Ong Ah Chuan at 659). Counsel for the Public Prosecutor replied
                    that the issue was not relevant – to which Lord Diplock responded (at
                    659):
Their Lordships cannot accept that because they will have to deal with the
                        point. They are not disposed to find that article 9(1) justifies all
                        legislation whatever its nature.
101    Proceeding on the basis that it was
                        not the case that the then equivalent of
                    Art 9(1) of the Singapore Constitution “justifie[d] all legislation
                    whatever its nature” (at 659), the Privy Council examined whether the
                    s 15 presumption contravened the then equivalent of either Art 9(1) or
                    Art 12(1), and ruled in the negative. It was in this context that
                    Lord Diplock propounded his famous formulation of the meaning of the word
                    “law” as used in the then equivalent of Arts 9(1) and 12(1),
                    as follows (at 670–671):
… their Lordships are unable to accept the narrow view of the
                        effect of articles 9(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution [ie, the then equivalent of the Singapore
                        Constitution] for which counsel for the Public Prosecutor contended. This
                        was that since “written law” is defined in article 2(1)
                        to mean “this Constitution and all Acts and Ordinances and subsidiary
                        legislation for the time being in force in Singapore” and
                        “law” is defined as including “written law,” the
                        requirements of the Constitution are satisfied if the deprivation of life or
                        liberty complained of has been carried out in accordance with provisions
                        contained in any Act passed by the Parliament of Singapore, however
                        arbitrary or contrary to fundamental rules of natural justice the provisions
                        of such Act may be. To the full breadth of this contention one limitation
                        only was conceded: the arbitrariness, the disregard of fundamental rules of
                        natural justice for which the Act provides, must be of general application
                        to all citizens of Singapore so as to avoid falling foul of the
                        anti-discriminatory provisions of article 12(1).
Even on the most literalist approach to the construction of the
                        Constitution this argument in their Lordships’ view involves the
                        logical fallacy of petitio principii. The definition of “written
                        law” includes provisions of Acts passed by the Parliament of
                        Singapore only to the extent that they are “for the time being
                            in force in Singapore”; and
                        article 4 provides that “any law enacted by the legislature
                        after the commencement of this Constitution which is inconsistent with this
                        Constitution shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be void.” So
                        the use of the expression “law” in articles 9(1) and
                        12(1) does not, in the event of challenge, relieve the court of its duty to
                        determine whether the provisions of an Act of Parliament … relied
                        upon to justify depriving a person of his life or liberty are inconsistent
                        with the Constitution and consequently void.
In a Constitution founded on the Westminster model and particularly in
                        that part of it that purports to assure to all individual citizens the
                        continued enjoyment of fundamental liberties or rights, references to
                        “law” in such contexts as “in accordance with
                        law,” “equality before the law,” “protection of
                        the law” and the like, in their Lordships’ view, refer to a
                        system of law which incorporates those fundamental rules of natural justice
                        that had formed part and parcel of the common law of England that was in
                        operation in Singapore at the commencement of the Constitution. It would
                        have been taken for granted by the makers of the Constitution that the
                        “law” to which citizens could have recourse for the protection
                        of fundamental liberties assured to them by the Constitution would be a
                        system of law that did not flout those fundamental rules. If it were
                        otherwise it would be [a] misuse of language to speak of law as something
                        which affords “protection” for the individual in the enjoyment
                        of his fundamental liberties, and the purported entrenchment (by
                        article 5) of articles 9(1) and 12(1) would be little better than
                        a mockery.
[emphasis in original]
102    In Haw Tua
                    Tau, a similar challenge was made to the constitutionality of
                    ss 188(2) and 195(1)–195(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code
                    (Cap 113, 1970 Rev Ed) (“the 1970 CPC”) as amended by
                    the Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act 1976 (Act 10 of 1976), which
                    abrogated the common law right of an accused to make an unsworn statement from
                    the dock without subjecting himself to cross-examination. It was argued that the
                    aforesaid provisions of the 1970 CPC (as amended) were inconsistent with the
                    then equivalent of Art 9(1) of the Singapore Constitution. The Privy
                    Council rejected this argument, reiterating (at 147 per Lord Diplock) the formulation in Ong
                        Ah Chuan (at 670–671) of the meaning of the word
                    “law” as used in (inter alia) the
                    then equivalent of Art 9(1).
103    It can be seen from the above outline of
                        Ong Ah Chuan and Haw Tua
                        Tau that in both cases, the Ong Ah
                        Chuan rules of natural justice were articulated and applied in
                    the context of a constitutional challenge to the validity of legislation, and
                    not in the judicial review context, where what is challenged is an
                    administrative decision made pursuant to valid
                    legislation. For this reason, it is my view that a distinction must be made
                    conceptually between the Ong Ah Chuan rules of
                    natural justice and the administrative law rules of natural justice. This
                    distinction stems from the difference in the juridical status of these two
                    categories of rules of natural justice. As I have just mentioned, the Ong Ah Chuan rules of natural justice operate at the
                    constitutional level in relation to the validity of legislation, whereas the
                    administrative law rules of natural justice operate at an executive level in
                    relation to the validity of administrative decisions.
104    To elaborate, the effect of the Privy
                    Council’s ruling in Ong Ah Chuan is that the
                        Ong Ah Chuan rules of natural justice have
                    been incorporated into the content or meaning of the term “law” as
                    used in Arts 9(1) and 12(1) of the Singapore Constitution, and form part of
                    “the ‘law’ to which citizens [can] have recourse for the
                    protection of [the] fundamental liberties assured to them by the [Singapore]
                    Constitution” (see Ong Ah Chuan at
                    670–671). It follows that these fundamental rules have the status of
                    constitutional rules and, thus, can only be abrogated or amended by a
                    constitutional amendment under Art 5 of the Singapore Constitution. In
                    contrast, the administrative law rules of natural justice, which apply to
                    judicial review of administrative decisions made under valid legislation, can be
                    abrogated or disapplied by ordinary legislation either directly or indirectly
                    (see, eg, De Smith
                    at para 8-003, Regina v Dudley Justices, Ex parte
                        Payne [1979] 1 WLR 891, Commissioner of
                        Business Franchises v Borenstein and Another [1984] VR 375,
                        Twist v Randwick Municipal Council (1976)
                    12 ALR 379 (at 382–383 per
                    Barwick CJ), Selvaraju a/l Ponniah v Suruhanjaya
                        Perkhidmatan Awam Malaysia & Anor [2007] 7 MLJ 1 and
                        Public Services Commission Malaysia & Anor v
                        Vickneswary a/p R M Santhivelu (substituting M Senthivelu a/l
                        R Marimuthu, deceased) [2008] 6 MLJ 1).
105    In drawing a conceptual distinction between
                    the Ong Ah Chuan rules of natural justice and the
                    administrative law rules of natural justice, I do
                        not imply that these two categories of rules of natural justice
                    are different rules. They are the same in nature and function, except that they
                    operate at different levels of our legal order, one to invalidate legislation on
                    the ground of unconstitutionality, and the other to invalidate administrative
                    decisions on the ground of administrative law principles (as to which, see
                        Chng Suan Tze at [119]).
106    I mentioned earlier (at [88] above) that the administrative law rules of
                    natural justice consist of two specific rules, viz, the rule against bias and the hearing rule. In my view, these
                    two rules are the same in nature as the Ong Ah
                        Chuan rules of natural justice as incorporated in substantive
                    legislation in the criminal justice context. This can be seen from the following
                    passage in Ong Ah Chuan (at 671 per Lord Diplock):

One of the fundamental rules of natural justice in the
                            field of criminal law is that a person should not be punished for an
                            offence unless it has been established to the satisfaction of an
                            independent and unbiased tribunal that he committed it. This
                        involves the tribunal being satisfied that all the physical and mental
                        elements of the offence with which he is charged, conduct and state of mind
                        as well where that is relevant, were present on the part of the accused. To
                        describe this fundamental rule as the “presumption of
                        innocence” may, however, be misleading to those familiar only with
                        English criminal procedure. Observance of the rule does not call for the
                        perpetuation in Singapore of technical rules of evidence and permitted modes
                        of proof of facts precisely as they stood at the date of the commencement of
                        the Constitution. These are largely a legacy of the role played by juries in
                        the administration of criminal justice in England as it developed over the
                        centuries. Some of them may be inappropriate to the conduct of criminal
                        trials in Singapore. What fundamental rules of natural
                            justice do require is that there should be material before the court
                            that is logically probative of facts sufficient to constitute the
                            offence with which the accused is charged. [emphasis
                        added]
107    The above passage states, in substance, that
                    our criminal justice system contains the following fundamental elements:
                    (a) the accused can be convicted of the offence charged only if the
                    ingredients of the offence have been proved by the Prosecution according to the
                    standard of proof applicable to criminal proceedings (ie, the standard of beyond reasonable doubt); (b) the
                    tribunal trying the accused must be independent and unbiased; and (c) the
                    accused must be heard on his defence to the offence charged. Accordingly,
                    legislation that abrogates any of these fundamental elements may be open to
                    challenge on the ground of inconsistency with Art 9(1).
108    To return to the more immediate question
                    raised by the Natural Justice Issue, since the administrative law rules of
                    natural justice were part of the common law of Singapore even before the
                    commencement of the very first predecessor of the Singapore Constitution, there
                    is no reason why, in principle, they cannot apply to the making of a clemency
                    decision, which is an executive decision, albeit one made under a constitutional
                    power. In other words, even though the grant of clemency is a matter of
                    executive grace and not of legal right, I see no reason why the administrative
                    law rules of natural justice should not apply to the clemency process, provided the application of these rules is not
                    inconsistent with the terms of Art 22P – an issue which I shall now
                    examine.
Whether applying the administrative law rules of natural justice to
                the clemency process would be inconsistent with Art 22P
(1)   The rule against bias
109    As mentioned earlier (see [96] above), the Respondent argues (inter alia) that the rule against apparent bias is not
                    applicable to the clemency process because Art 22P(2) requires the
                    Attorney-General, who (in his capacity as the Public Prosecutor) initiated the
                    criminal proceedings against the offender concerned, to give his opinion on the
                    report of the trial judge and (if there is an appeal from the trial
                    judge’s decision) the report of the presiding judge of the appellate court
                    on the case. This requirement, it is contended, is inconsistent with the rule
                    against apparent bias; therefore, Art 22P itself has abrogated the
                    rule.
110    With respect, I do not accept the logic of
                    the above argument. When the Attorney-General decides whether or not to
                    prosecute an offender for an offence, his decision is based on whether there is
                    sufficient evidence to show that the offender committed that offence. In
                    contrast, when the Attorney-General is giving his opinion under Art 22P(2),
                    he is not giving an opinion on the same matter (as he has already decided that
                    the offender should be prosecuted, and as the offender has already been charged,
                    tried by a court of law and convicted), but is instead giving an opinion on
                    whether there is a case for granting clemency to the offender. There is no
                    conflict of interest involved. In any case, the issue of bias is relevant not so
                    much to the opinion of the Attorney-General as to the decision of the ultimate
                    authority on whether or not to grant clemency – it is the possibility of
                    bias on the part of the ultimate authority that is relevant for the purposes of
                    the rule against bias as applied to the clemency process.
111    In my view, the rule against bias does apply
                    to the ultimate authority in the clemency regime. In our local context, it is
                    clear from the terms of Art 22P that the ultimate authority is the
                    President since it is in him that the clemency power is vested. What is disputed
                    in this appeal (and this forms the Discretion Issue) is whether the President
                    acts in his discretion in exercising the clemency power, or whether he is bound
                    by the Cabinet’s advice. If the former represents the correct
                    constitutional position, then what is relevant, vis-à-vis the rule against bias, is the possibility of bias on
                    the President’s part; if, however, the latter is the correct
                    constitutional position, then what is of concern is the possibility of bias on
                    the Cabinet’s part.
112    Regardless of whether it is the possibility
                    of bias on the President’s part or on the Cabinet’s part that is
                    relevant for the purposes of the rule against bias, I accept that it is not
                    beyond the realms of possibility for the President or one or more members of the
                    Cabinet to be placed in a position of conflict of interest vis-à-vis the clemency decision to be made (eg, if the President or a member of the Cabinet is related to
                    the offender in question by blood or by other ties of kinship). But, it is also
                    important to bear in mind that an allegation of bias or conflict of interest on
                    the part of the ultimate authority is, in effect, a factual assertion. Given the
                    evidentiary rule that “he who asserts must prove”, such an
                    assertion will be accepted by the court only if it is proved to the
                    court’s satisfaction. In this regard, I would add that the issue of bias
                    is less likely to arise when clemency is not
                    granted (see Epuru Sudhakar) than when it
                        is granted: this is because in the former
                    scenario, the ultimate authority has merely decided to let the law take its
                    course.
(2)   The hearing rule
113    In contrast to my ruling on the
                    applicability of the rule against bias, I am of the view that the hearing rule
                    does not apply to the clemency process. As mentioned at [27] above, the clemency power is derived from the prerogative
                    of mercy, which is a common law power.
                    Historically, at common law, an offender seeking mercy had no right to be heard
                    during the clemency process (see, eg, Horwitz v Connor, Hanratty, de Freitas and Reckley). This was the position in Singapore when the
                    clemency power was a prerogative power. After the clemency power in Singapore
                    became a constitutional power (in the sense of a power entrenched in a written
                    Constitution (as to which, see [169]–[171] below)),
                    the common law position that an offender had no right of hearing during the
                    clemency process continued to apply. In the words of Lord Diplock in
                        de Freitas at 247 (as applied mutatis mutandis to our local context), “[e]xcept
                    in so far as it may have been altered by the Constitution[,] the legal nature of
                    the exercise of the royal prerogative of mercy in [Singapore] remain[ed] the same as it was in England at common law”
                    [emphasis added].
114    In short, the hearing rule has never applied
                    to the clemency process in Singapore, both during the time when the clemency
                    power was a prerogative power and, subsequently, after this power became a
                    constitutional power. This situation is reflected by the absence of any
                    provision in Art 22P for an offender (regardless of the offence which he
                    has been convicted of) to be heard during the clemency process. This is the
                    position even in a death sentence case. All that Art 22P(2) specifically
                    provides for in a death sentence case is that the Art 22P(2) materials
                    relating to the offender must be considered by the Cabinet impartially and in
                    good faith before it advises the President on the exercise of the clemency power
                    (see [82]–[83] above). Notably, Art 22P(2) does not provide for any
                    right on the part of the offender in a death sentence case to file a clemency
                    petition. Furthermore, even if the offender files a clemency petition, under the
                    terms of Art 22P(2), the petition does not form part of the Art 22P(2)
                    materials. That said, it is an established procedure in death sentence cases for
                    the Prisons Department to ask the offender (through his counsel) to file a
                    clemency petition, if he wishes, within three months of his conviction (or of
                    the conclusion of his appeal against conviction and/or sentence, as the case may
                    be). If the offender does file a clemency petition, the Cabinet will no doubt
                    consider it together with the Art 22P(2) materials relating to the offender
                    before advising the President on the exercise of the clemency
                power.
115    For the foregoing reasons, I hold that
                    whilst the rule against bias applies to the clemency process, the hearing rule
                    does not.
Whether the Law Minister’s statements created a reasonable
                suspicion of bias by reason of predetermination
116    With the foregoing analysis of the law in
                    mind, I now examine Mr Ravi’s argument that the Law Minister’s
                    statements have engendered “a reasonable suspicion of bias by reason of predetermination”[note: 16] [emphasis added]. Mr Ravi
                    alleges that the Law Minister and, in turn, the rest of the Cabinet have already
                    predetermined the advice to be given to the President vis-à-vis whether the Appellant should be granted clemency. The
                    question before this court is whether there is any merit in this
                    allegation.
117    In the court below, Mr Ravi contended
                    that the Law Minister’s statements gave rise to “a reasonable
                    suspicion of bias by reason of predetermination”[note: 17]
                    as they showed that:
(a)     the Law Minister and, in turn, the
                        rest of the Cabinet predetermined, even before receiving any fresh clemency
                        petition which the Appellant might file, that the Appellant should not be
                        granted clemency (see prayer 6 of OS 740/2010);
                    and
(b)     the Law
                        Minister and his fellow Cabinet Ministers also predetermined, prior to the
                        release of this court’s judgment in Yong Vui Kong
                            (No 2) on 14 May 2010, that the Appellant should
                        not be granted clemency in the event of his appeal (viz, CCA 13/2008) being dismissed (see prayer 7 of
                        OS 740/2010).
Those arguments were rejected by the
                    Judge.
118    Mr Ravi reiterated the above arguments
                    before this court. In order to evaluate their merits, it is necessary to examine
                    closely the material parts of the Law Minister’s statements as reported in
                    the 10 May 2010 edition of TODAY. They are as
                        follows:[note: 18]
[The Law Minister] was replying to a resident during a dialogue session at
                        Siglap South Community Centre who asked if there would be changes on
                            this policy [ie, the mandatory death penalty for serious drug trafficking
                        offences], in light of the case of [the Appellant].
…
“You save one life here, but 10 other lives will be gone. What will
                        your choice be?”
If [the Appellant] escapes the death penalty, drug
                            barons will think the signal is that young and vulnerable traffickers
                            will be spared and can be used as drug mules, argued [the Law
                        Minister].
[emphasis added]
The following passage from the 15 May 2010 edition of TODAY is also relevant:[note: 19]
The resident had asked if [the Appellant]’s case would affect
                            Singapore’s laws on the mandatory death
                            penalty.
[The Law Minister] replied: “[The Appellant] (who was sentenced to
                        hang for trafficking in 47g of heroin) is young. But if we say, ‘We
                        let you go’, what’s the signal we’re sending?
“We’re sending a signal to all drug barons out there: Just
                        make sure you choose a victim who’s young or a mother of a young child
                        and use them as the people to carry drugs into Singapore.”
[emphasis added]
119    In my view, there are four difficulties with
                    Mr Ravi’s attempt to make out a case of “reasonable suspicion
                    of bias by reason of predetermination”[note: 20] based on the Law
                    Minister’s statements.
120    First, if one reads the material portions of
                    the Law Minister’s statements in their proper context and in good faith
                        (ie, without attributing bad faith to the Law
                    Minister as a starting point), it is plain that the Law Minister’s
                    statements were nothing more than an articulation of the Government’s
                    policy of adopting a tough approach to serious drug trafficking offences by
                    imposing the death penalty as the mandatory punishment for these offences so as
                    to check and deter them. Under s 213 of the Criminal Procedure Code
                    (Cap 68, 1985 Rev Ed), which was the applicable provision at the time
                    of the Appellant’s offence (see now s 314 of the Criminal Procedure
                    Code 2010 (Act 15 of 2010)), the minimum age for imposing the death penalty
                    on an offender is the age of 18 (taking the age of the offender at the time he
                    committed the offence in question). Hence, when the Law Minister referred to the
                    Appellant as “young”,[note: 21] he was doing
                    no more than restating the legislative policy on the minimum age at which the
                    death sentence can be imposed on an offender and pointing out that if clemency
                    were to be shown to the Appellant simply because he was only 19 years old at the
                    time of his offence, the aforesaid legislative policy would be undermined. The
                    Law Minister was not in any way indicating that
                    the Appellant, in the event of his appeal in CCA 13/2008 being dismissed,
                    should not be granted clemency.
121    Second, in arguing that the Law
                    Minister’s statements have given rise to “a reasonable suspicion of
                    bias by reason of predetermination”,[note: 22] Mr Ravi has conveniently
                    ignored in its entirety the reasoning of the High Court of Australia in
                        Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Jia
                        Legeng (2001) 205 CLR 507 (“Jia
                        Legeng”) and Hot Holdings Pty Limited v
                        Creasy and Others (2002) 210 CLR 438. Jia
                        Legeng, in particular, is pertinent in the present
                appeal.
122    The facts of Jia
                        Legeng are as follows. A Chinese national living in Australia
                    (“Jia”) applied for a Special Entry Permit. Pending the processing
                    of his application, Jia committed a number of offences in Australia and was duly
                    convicted. Subsequently, his application for a Special Entry Permit was rejected
                    by the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs (“the
                    Immigration Minister”). Jia appealed to the Administrative Appeals
                    Tribunal (“the Tribunal”), which set aside the Immigration
                    Minister’s decision and remitted the matter to the Immigration Minister
                    with a direction that Jia qualified for a Transitional (Permanent) Visa. Shortly
                    after the Tribunal’s decision, the Immigration Minister, in a radio
                    interview, expressed his concern about the Tribunal’s decision and the way
                    in which the Tribunal had dealt with a number of cases similar to that of Jia.
                    The Immigration Minister did grant Jia a Transitional (Permanent) Visa as the
                    Tribunal directed, but then exercised his discretion under s 501 of the
                    Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (“the 1958 Migration Act”) to cancel the
                    visa on the ground that Jia was not a person of good character; the Immigration
                    Minister also exercised his discretion under s 502 of that Act to declare
                    Jia an excluded person. Jia applied for judicial review of the Immigration
                    Minister’s decision, contending that it was affected by bias or,
                    alternatively, had been made in circumstances where there was a reasonable
                    apprehension of bias.
123    The High Court of Australia ruled that the
                    Immigration Minister’s decision was not vitiated by bias. In their joint
                    judgment, Gleeson CJ and Gummow J explained their reasoning as follows
                    (see Jia Legeng at [102]):
… [L]awyers usually equate “bias” with a departure
                        from the standard of even-handed justice which the law requires from those
                        who occupy judicial, or quasi-judicial, office. The [Immigration] Minister
                        is in a different position. The statutory powers in question [ie, the statutory powers under ss 501 and 502
                        of the 1958 Migration Act] have been reposed in a political official, a
                        member of the Executive Government, who not only has general accountability
                        to the electorate and to Parliament, but who, in s 502, is made subject
                        to a specific form of parliamentary accountability. … The powers
                        given by ss 501 and 502 … [enable] the [Immigration] Minister in
                        effect to reverse the practical consequences of decisions of the Tribunal in
                        the cases of the persons involved, even though no new facts or circumstances
                        ha[ve] arisen; and even though the [Immigration] Minister [was] involved in
                        the proceedings before the Tribunal. As the circumstances of the radio
                        interview demonstrate, the [Immigration] Minister himself can be drawn into
                        public debate about a matter in respect of which he may consider exercising
                        his powers. He [may] equally well [be] asked questions about the cases in
                        Parliament. The position of the [Immigration] Minister is
                            substantially different from that of a judge, or quasi-judical officer,
                            adjudicating in adversarial litigation. It would be wrong to apply to
                            his conduct the standards of detachment which apply to judicial officers
                            or jurors. There is no reason to conclude that the
                        legislature intended to impose such standards upon the [Immigration]
                        Minister, and every reason to conclude otherwise. [emphasis added]
124    In essence, what the High Court of Australia
                    held in Jia Legeng was that where a Minister made
                    a public statement on the Government’s policy on any issue, the rule
                    against bias ought not to be applied to him as though he were a judicial officer
                    or a quasi-judicial officer should he later be required to exercise his
                    discretion on a matter relating to that policy. I agree with this reasoning as,
                    otherwise, no Minister would be able to speak on any governmental policy in
                    public lest his statement be construed as a predetermination of any matter which
                    he might subsequently have to decide in connection with the policy in question.
                    As stated in Thatcher at [13] (see [95] above), the
                    duty of fairness which the rule against bias imposes on a Minister must, by
                    virtue of a Minister’s position, be less onerous than the corresponding
                    duty of fairness incumbent on a judge or a tribunal exercising a quasi-judicial
                    function.
125    Applying the reasoning in Jia Legeng analogously, I find it unrealistic to regard the Law
                    Minister’s statements as evidence of bias or as giving rise to “a
                    reasonable suspicion of bias by reason of predetermination”.[note: 23]
                    To do so would mean, as I have just stated, that a government Minister cannot
                    say anything in public (or, for that matter, even in Parliament) to explain the
                    policy of any law which he has introduced or is about to introduce without
                    creating the spectre of bias in relation to (and thereby disqualifying him from
                    deciding) any particular matter apropos that law which might subsequently
                    require his decision.
126    The third weakness in Mr Ravi’s
                    contention on predetermination arising from the Law Minister’s statements
                    is that Mr Ravi has side-stepped the difficulty of explaining how, even if
                    those statements do indeed evince the Law Minister’s predetermination not
                    to grant clemency to the Appellant, such predetermination can be attributed to
                    the other 20 Ministers who currently make up the Cabinet. In this regard,
                    Mr Ravi’s assertion that the Law Minister’s statements have
                    also infected the other members of the Cabinet with bias consists only of empty
                    words, supported neither by facts nor by logic. That assertion has been advanced
                    merely to get over the difficulty of attributing the Law Minister’s bias
                    (assuming it is indeed reasonably apprehended) to the other 20 members of the
                    Cabinet. Although all Cabinet decisions are made collectively under our
                    constitutional system, which is based on the Westminster model, in any
                    discussion at a Cabinet meeting on what advice should be given to the President
                    on the clemency decision to be made in a particular death sentence case, each
                    Minister can only speak for himself. Hence, Mr Ravi’s argument, even
                    taken at its highest, cannot cross this much higher hurdle of having to show
                    that when the Law Minister made the statements complained of (ie, the Law Minister’s statements), he was speaking on
                    behalf of his Cabinet colleagues in relation to the advice to be given to the
                    President apropos whether or not clemency should be granted to the
                    Appellant.
127    The fourth flaw in Mr Ravi’s
                    argument on predetermination arising from the Law Minister’s statements is
                    one that I mentioned during the parties’ oral arguments before this court
                    – namely, if one accepts Mr Ravi’s arguments, the logical
                    consequence would be that any articulation by a Cabinet Minister of the
                    Government’s policy on the death penalty would lead to the entire Cabinet
                    being disqualified from advising the President under Art 22P(2) on the
                    exercise of the clemency power in all death sentence cases. The result (as
                    contended by Mr Ravi) would be that none of the death sentences imposed on
                    convicted persons can be carried out. Effectively, the Appellant’s death
                    sentence (and, likewise, all other death sentences which have yet to be carried
                    out) would have to be commuted. This would also in effect mean the abrogation or
                    suspension of the death penalty, a consequence too absurd to
                contemplate.
128    For the aforesaid reasons, there is no merit
                    in Mr Ravi’s contention that the clemency process vis-à-vis the Appellant has been tainted by “a reasonable
                    suspicion of bias by reason of predetermination”[note: 24]
                    as a result of the Law Minister’s statements.
The Disclosure Issue
129    I now move on to discuss the Disclosure
                    Issue. To recapitulate, this issue concerns the question of whether the
                    Appellant is entitled to disclosure of the Art 22P(2) materials relating to
                    his case so as to afford him an opportunity to make adequate representations to
                    the President on any fresh clemency petition which he (the Appellant) may file.
                    In the present case, the Art 22P(2) materials consist of: (a) the
                    report of the judge who heard Yong Vui Kong (HC),
                    (b) my report on CCA 13/2008 in my capacity as the presiding judge of
                    the appellate court in that appeal; and (c) the opinion of the
                    Attorney-General on these two reports. Mr Ravi relies strongly and
                        solely on the majority judgment in Lewis (and its progeny) in support of his argument that
                    the Appellant is entitled to such disclosure. As mentioned at
                    sub-para (c)(iii) of [55] above, the
                    majority in Lewis held that the offender in a
                    death sentence case was entitled to be given a full copy – and not merely
                    the gist – of all the materials placed before the JPC for consideration in
                    connection with its constitutional duty to advise the Governor-General on the
                    exercise of the clemency power; this was to enable the offender to make proper
                    representations on clemency to the JPC for its consideration (for convenience, I
                    shall hereafter refer to this holding as “the disclosure holding in
                        Lewis”).
130    In so ruling, the majority in Lewis departed from two previous decisions of the Privy
                    Council, namely, de Freitas and Reckley, both of which held that the offender in a death
                    sentence case was not entitled to disclosure of the materials placed before the
                    advisory committee for consideration in connection with its constitutional duty
                    to advise the ultimate authority on the exercise of the prerogative of mercy. In
                        de Freitas, the reason given by
                    Lord Diplock was that the decision of the ultimate authority (viz, the Governor-General of Trinidad and Tobago) as to
                    how the clemency power should be exercised was “a purely discretionary
                    act” (at 247). In Reckley, Lord Goff
                    agreed with Lord Diplock on the ground (inter
                        alia) that the relevant Bahamian constitutional provisions gave
                    no right to an offender who had been sentenced to death to present a clemency
                    petition to the ultimate authority (viz, the
                    Governor-General of the Bahamas) – the clemency process was
                    constitutionally required in a death sentence case, whether or not a clemency
                    petition was made.
131    It is clear from the majority judgment in
                        Lewis that the key reason for the
                    majority’s decision to depart from previous authorities was Art 4 of
                    the American Convention on Human Rights of 1969 (“the 1969 American
                    Convention”), which, at the time Lewis was
                    decided, Jamaica had ratified but had yet to incorporate into its domestic law.
                    Article 4(6) of this Convention provides as follows:
Every person condemned to death shall have the right to
                            apply for amnesty, pardon, or commutation of sentence, which
                        may be granted in all cases. Capital punishment shall not be imposed while
                        such a petition is pending decision by the competent authority. [emphasis
                        added]
Pursuant to Art 4(6), at the time Lewis was decided, Jamaica allowed offenders sentenced to death
                    to present clemency petitions to the UNHRC and the IACHR, and also allowed the
                    JPC to consider the recommendations of these international bodies for the
                    purpose of advising the Governor-General on the exercise of the clemency power
                    (see Lewis at 80). Given this context, it was
                    unsurprising that the majority in Lewis held that
                    the applicants in Lewis had a right to make
                    representations to the JPC and to disclosure of the materials required to be
                    placed before the JPC, including the reports of international human rights
                    bodies such as the IACHR.
132    As mentioned at [56] above, Lord Hoffmann, who had also been a member of
                    the Board in Reckley, delivered a powerful dissent
                    in Lewis. His Lordship protested that the
                    disclosure holding in Lewis was a mistake as there
                    was no justification for departing from the legal position laid down in
                        Reckley, given that nothing had changed in the
                    intervening period of approximately five years since that case was decided (see
                        Lewis at 88–90):
The Board now proposes to depart from its recent decisions on all [the]
                        points [raised in Lewis]. I do not think that
                        there is any justification for doing so. …
…
I entirely accept that the Board is not, as a matter of law, bound by its
                        previous decisions. And I respect the conviction of the majority that this
                        is an occasion to exercise the Board’s power to overrule the earlier
                        cases. But I think it is a mistake. The fact that the Board has the power to
                        depart from earlier decisions does not mean that there are no principles
                        which should guide it in deciding whether to do so.
…
… If the Board feels able to depart from a previous decision simply
                        because its members on a given occasion have a “doctrinal disposition
                        to come out differently”, the rule of law itself will be damaged and
                        there will be no stability in the administration of justice in the
                        Caribbean.
I also mentioned earlier (at [61]
                    above) that in the Australian case of Eastman
                        (ACT), the ACT Court of Appeal likewise did not consider that the
                    Privy Council decisions on appeals from the Caribbean States necessarily offered
                    a principled basis for departing from the position
                    laid down by Horwitz v Connor (which is in pari materia with the position laid down by de Freitas and Reckley).
133    In the present case, the Judge rejected the
                    disclosure holding in Lewis (as well as the other
                    aspects of the majority decision). At [64] of the HC Judgment, he said:
The Jamaican position [post-Lewis] is based
                        on the premise that the clemency process ameliorates the problems with a
                        mandatory death penalty. It is therefore inapplicable to Singapore, where
                        the Court of Appeal has held [in Yong Vui Kong
                            (No 2)], in a challenge brought by [the Appellant]
                        himself, that the mandatory death penalty is perfectly constitutional. The
                        Jamaican position is also based on that jurisdiction’s ratification of
                        [the 1969 American Convention], a treaty which does not apply in the
                        Singapore context.
134    I agree with the Judge’s rejection of
                    the majority judgment in Lewis as being irrelevant
                    to our local context. That judgment was based on the finding that by virtue of
                    the 1969 American Convention, the applicants in Lewis had a legal right to petition for clemency (see Lewis at 80, where Lord Slynn expressly pointed out
                    that the majority in Lewis “ha[d] so far
                    dealt with [the] matter on the basis that there [was] a right
                        to put in ‘representations’” [emphasis
                    added]). In contrast, Lord Hoffmann, in his dissenting judgment, gave a
                    very convincing explanation of why that Convention should not have been applied
                    in that case.
135    In contrast to the legal backdrop against
                    which Lewis was decided, the legal position in
                    Singapore is absolutely clear. There is no Convention that binds Singapore to
                    give a right of hearing to an offender during the clemency process in a death
                    sentence case - as I held in my discussion of the Natural
                    Justice Issue, an offender has no right to be heard during the clemency process.
                    Further, the terms of Art 22P do not give an offender any right to petition
                    for clemency. Since the existence of a right to disclosure of the
                    Art 22P(2) materials is premised on the offender in a death sentence case
                    having a right to petition for clemency and/or a right to be heard during the
                    clemency process, it follows that no such right of disclosure exists under
                    Art 22P. As Lord Goff explained in Reckley in rejecting the argument by TR (the offender in that
                    case) that the principle of fairness entailed that he should be entitled to make
                    representations to the advisory committee and should, for that purpose, be
                    entitled to see the materials placed before the committee (at 542):
In support of this proposition, reliance was placed on the decision of the
                        House of Lords in Reg. v. Secretary of State for the Home
                            Department, Ex parte Doody [1994] 1 A.C. 531. That case
                        was however concerned with a different subject matter, viz. the exercise by
                        the Home Secretary of his statutory power to release on licence a person
                        serving a sentence of life imprisonment. It was there held that the Home
                        Secretary was bound to afford a prisoner serving a mandatory life sentence
                        the opportunity to submit in writing representations as to the penal element
                        in the sentence which he must serve, and further that, to enable those
                        representations to be effective, he [ie, the
                        Home Secretary] must make available to the prisoner the gist of the material
                        upon which he will [rely] when making his decision. What is important for
                        present purposes, however, is that Lord Mustill (with whose speech the
                        remainder of the Appellate Committee agreed) was careful, at
                        p. 556G–H, to distinguish that case from a case in which the
                        prisoner is “essentially in mercy” where there is “no
                        ground to ascribe to him the rights which fairness might otherwise
                        demand:” see p. 556H. That is precisely the present case. Indeed
                        it is clear from the constitutional provisions under which the advisory
                        committee is established, and its functions are regulated, that the condemned man has no right to make representations to the
                            committee in a death sentence case; and,
                            that being so, there is no basis on which he is entitled to be supplied
                            with the gist of other material before the committee. This is entirely
                            consistent with a regime under which a purely personal discretion is
                            vested in the minister. Of course the condemned man is at
                        liberty to make such representations, in which event the minister can (and
                        no doubt will in practice) cause such representations to be placed before
                        the advisory committee, although the condemned man has no right that he
                        should do so. [emphasis added]
This is likewise the position in our local context under
                    Art 22P.
136    I am also of the view that the disclosure
                    holding in Lewis is flawed in so far as it was
                    influenced by considerations such as: (a) the possibility that false or
                    incorrect materials might be placed before the advisory body tasked with
                    advising the ultimate authority on how the clemency power should be exercised;
                    and/or (b) the possibility that the advisory body’s members might be
                    unconsciously biased against the offender or might decide the matter in an
                    arbitrary or perverse manner. The majority in Lewis expressed these concerns (at 76) as follows:
On the face of it there are compelling reasons why a body which is
                        required to consider a petition for mercy should be required to receive the
                        representations of a man condemned to die and why he should have an
                        opportunity in doing so to see and comment on the other material which is
                        before that body. This is the last chance[,] and in so far as it is possible
                        to ensure that proper procedural standards are maintained[,] that should be
                        done. Material may be put before the body by persons
                            palpably biased against the convicted man or which is demonstrably false
                            or which is genuinely mistaken but capable of correction. Information
                            may be available which by error of counsel or honest forgetfulness by
                            the condemned man has not been brought out before. Similarly
                        if it is said that the opinion of the [advisory body] is taken in an
                        arbitrary or perverse way – on the throw of a dice or on the basis of
                        a convicted man’s hairstyle – or is otherwise arrived at in an
                        improper, unreasonable way, the court should prima facie be able to
                        investigate.
Are there special reasons why this should not be so?
In [Reckley] much importance was attached to
                        the composition of the Advisory Committee on the Prerogative of Mercy. The
                        experience, status, independence of the members is no doubt an important
                        feature of the process. It provides a valuable protection and prevents the
                        autocratic rejection of a petition by one person. Their Lordships do not
                        however accept that this is a conclusive reason why judicial review should
                        be excluded. [The members] may unconsciously be biased,
                            there may still be inadvertently a gross breach of fairness in the way
                            the proceedings are conducted. …
[emphasis added]
137    In my view, these concerns may be relevant
                    for the purpose of deciding whether, as a matter of principle, the clemency
                    power is justiciable. However, they are not relevant to the question of whether
                    the materials placed before the advisory body should be disclosed to an offender
                    sentenced to death who has no right to present a clemency petition and no right
                    to be heard during the clemency process.
138    More importantly, in my view, the risks
                    highlighted by the majority in Lewis have no
                    bearing on the clemency process under Art 22P(2) (ie, the clemency process in death sentence cases), where the
                    persons directly involved in the making of a clemency decision are:
(a)     the trial judge and, if there is an
                        appeal, the presiding judge of the appellate court, who are required to
                        write reports on the case;
(b)     the Attorney-General, who is required to give his
                        opinion on those reports;
(c)     the members of the Cabinet, who are required to consider
                        the aforesaid reports and the Attorney-General’s opinion (viz, the Art 22P(2) materials) impartially and
                        in good faith before advising the President on how the clemency power should
                        be exercised; and
(d)     the President, who is the ultimate authority in our local
                        context.
139    Given the high constitutional offices held
                    by these individuals, no court is justified in hypothesising that the trial
                    judge and (where there is an appeal) the presiding judge of the appellate court
                    may write biased or inaccurate reports, or that the Attorney-General may give a
                    spiteful opinion on the offender’s case, or that the Cabinet members
                    and/or the President may be unconsciously prejudiced against the offender or may
                    not give his case full and fair consideration. In my view, until the contrary is
                    shown, the courts, instead of proceeding on such fanciful hypotheses, should
                    proceed on the basis of presumptive legality encapsulated in the maxim
                        “omnia praesumuntur rite esse
                    acta” – all things are presumed to have been done
                    rightly and regularly, ie, in conformity with the
                    law.
140    For the above reasons, I hold that the
                    Appellant has no right to disclosure of the Art 22P(2) materials relating
                    to his case.
Conclusion
141    For the reasons given above, I would dismiss
                    this appeal.

        Andrew Phang Boon Leong and V K Rajah JJA:
Introduction
142    This appeal raises a very important issue as
                    to whether the clemency power under Art 22P of the Constitution of the
                    Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the
                    Singapore Constitution”) is amenable to judicial review, and, if so, the
                    extent to which the exercise of this power is subject to the legal principles
                    applicable in judicial review proceedings. We have read the foregoing judgment
                    of the Chief Justice (“Chan CJ”), and we fully agree with it.
                    For convenience, we will, in this judgment, use the same abbreviations as those
                    used in Chan CJ’s judgment.
143    As the background facts have been fully set
                    out in the HC Judgment as well as in Chan CJ’s judgment, we will not
                    revisit them in this judgment. Suffice it to say that in this appeal, the
                    Appellant is challenging the Judge’s dismissal of his application for
                    judicial review in OS 740/2010, which was made under O 53 of the Rules
                    of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2006 Rev Ed). OS 740/2010 is an
                    extraordinary application because the principal relief sought by the Appellant
                    is a declaration – a form of relief which is not provided for under
                    O 53 of the Rules of Court (see [25]
                    above and also [189] below). The specific
                    declaratory order which the Appellant seeks is a declaration that “it is
                    the … President and not his advisors [ie,
                    the Cabinet, in the present context] who has the discretion to decide whether or
                    not to grant the [Appellant]’s petition for clemency, this being a matter
                    in respect of which the President may decide in his discretion under
                    Article 21(2) of the [Singapore] Constitution”.[note: 25] Together with this
                    declaration, the Appellant seeks, inter alia, an
                    order prohibiting the President from delegating to the Cabinet his discretion to
                    grant clemency. The other reliefs sought by the Appellant are set out in the
                    judgment of Chan CJ (at [8]–[9]
                above).
144    In his judgment, Chan CJ categorised
                    the issues raised by the Appellant in this appeal under the following five heads
                    (at [15] above):
(a)the Discretion Issue;
(b)the Justiciability Issue;
(c)the Natural Justice Issue;
(d)the Disclosure Issue; and
(e)the Declaratory Relief Issue.
In addition, as mentioned in Chan CJ’s judgment (see
                        [23] above), Mr Ravi raised the
                    Legitimate Expectation Issue.
Mr Ravi’s application for Chan CJ’s
                disqualification
145    Before we consider the issues set out in the
                    preceding paragraph, it is desirable that we express our views on
                    Mr Ravi’s surprising application, made right at the outset of the
                    hearing of this appeal without any prior notice to either this court or the
                    Respondent, to disqualify Chan CJ from hearing the appeal (for convenience,
                    we will hereafter refer to this application as “Mr Ravi’s
                    disqualification application”).
146    As can be seen from [16] above, Mr Ravi’s objection to
                    Chan CJ’s hearing the appeal was based on Chan CJ’s tenure
                    as the Attorney-General of Singapore from 1992 to 2006 – a fact which was
                    known to Mr Ravi long before this appeal was filed. Specifically,
                    Mr Ravi’s objection was directed at the Discretion Issue.
                    Mr Ravi argued that Chan CJ, during his tenure as Attorney-General,
                    must have advised the President that he (the President) had no discretion in
                    exercising the clemency power under Art 22P. That being the case,
                    Mr Ravi submitted, should Chan CJ now decide that the President
                        has a discretion in exercising the clemency
                    power, he would have been remiss or negligent in his advice to the President
                    regarding clemency decisions made during his tenure as Attorney-General. This,
                    Mr Ravi contended, would put Chan CJ in conflict as regards any
                    interpretation of the Singapore Constitution favourable to the Appellant’s
                    case on the Discretion Issue, ie, any
                    interpretation to the effect that the President has a discretion in deciding
                    whether or not to grant clemency to an offender under Art 22P. In effect,
                    the implicit suggestion at the heart of Mr Ravi’s disqualification
                    application was that Chan CJ would have to decide against the Appellant on
                    the Discretion Issue in order to cover up his remiss or negligence (if any)
                    during his tenure as Attorney-General.
The law on judicial disqualification
147    The basic rule which underlies the law on
                    judicial disqualification is that a judge is automatically disqualified from
                    hearing a case if he has a personal interest in the outcome of the case (see
                        William Dimes v The Proprietors of the Grand Junction
                        Canal, T E Skidmore, A Boham, and
                        W W Martin (1852) 3 HL Cas 759; 10 ER
                    301 (“Dimes”)). The rationale of
                    this rule (“the judicial disqualification rule”) is that where a
                    judge is personally interested in the outcome of the case before him, he will
                    not be able to give an impartial and objective judgment on the case. If he were
                    to be allowed to adjudicate on the case notwithstanding this risk, that would,
                    without more, undermine public confidence in the integrity of the administration
                    of justice (see Dimes at 793–794; 315). A
                    more recent and well-publicised example of the application of this rule is the
                    decision of a panel of the House of Lords in Regina v Bow
                        Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate and Others, Ex parte Pinochet
                        Ugarte (No 2) [2000] 1 AC 119 setting aside the earlier
                    decision of another panel of the House of Lords in Regina v
                        Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate and Others, Ex parte Pinochet
                        Ugarte [2000] 1 AC 61 on the ground of apparent bias on the
                    part of one of the members of the panel in the earlier decision.
148    Although it is of the utmost importance that
                    judges adhere scrupulously to the judicial disqualification rule, we are of the
                    view that any attempt to recuse a judge from hearing a case on the ground of
                    conflict of interest must be based on credible grounds, and must not be
                    motivated by any extraneous purpose; otherwise, the rule could become a charter
                    for abuse by manipulative advocates. In this regard, we respectfully endorse the
                    English Court of Appeal’s observation in Locabail (UK)
                        Ltd v Bayfield Properties Ltd and Another [2000] QB 451
                        (“Locabail”) that a judge
                    “would be as wrong to yield to a tenuous or frivolous
                        objection as he would [be] to ignore an objection of
                    substance” [emphasis added] (at [21]).
This court’s reasons for dismissing Mr Ravi’s
                disqualification application
149    This court dismissed Mr Ravi’s
                    disqualification application for the reasons set out by Chan CJ at
                        [17]-[22] above. We would only add that in our view,
                    Mr Ravi’s disqualification application was frivolous as it was based
                    on the most tenuous of grounds (to echo the words of the English Court of Appeal
                    in Locabail at [21]). Having regard to the timing of the application and the
                    manner in which it was made, it appeared to us that the application was
                    calculated to diminish the judicial process and disrupt the hearing of the
                    appeal so that a fresh hearing had to be convened. Significantly, when pressed
                    by this court to explain why he had made the application in a dramatic fashion
                    only at the commencement of the hearing of this appeal when he had known as
                    early as 4 January 2011 (some two weeks before the hearing) that
                    Chan CJ would preside over this appeal, Mr Ravi admitted that he
                        “had thought about it, but … never
                        seriously felt that it would be that serious”[note: i] [emphasis added]. In our view,
                    whatever concerns Mr Ravi might have had about Chan CJ’s hearing
                    this appeal could not have been as serious as he claimed.
150    Our conclusion that Mr Ravi’s
                    disqualification application was devoid of merit was reinforced by the
                    consideration that Mr Ravi ought to have known that one of the central
                    premises of his disqualification application –
                    viz, that the President can act in his discretion
                    in exercising the clemency power – was wholly untenable, notwithstanding
                    that it had been boldly dressed up as a plausible legal argument. As we will show below, Mr Ravi, in seeking
                    to derive support for his argument from the legislative history of the clemency
                    power in this jurisdiction, referred (albeit in a piecemeal fashion) to
                    materials that proved, at every juncture, that his argument was in fact flawed
                    in its understanding of both the relevant legislative history as well as the
                    very language of the relevant provisions of the Singapore Constitution.
                    Mr Ravi’s own research showed (although Mr Ravi failed to either
                    recognise or accept this) that: (a) it was established
                        law in Singapore even before 9 August 1965 (“Singapore
                        Day”), the day on which Singapore became an independent sovereign
                        republic, that in our local context, the ultimate authority (as defined
                        at[33] above) had no discretion in exercising the clemency power;
                        and (b) this legal position was confirmed by Parliament on Singapore
                        Day itself. All the previous Presidents since Singapore Day have
                    exercised the clemency power on the basis that they were bound by the advice of
                    the Cabinet. As Chan CJ observed in his judgment (at [22] above), Mr Ravi wanted to overturn this
                    aspect of our constitutional order for no reason other than that it suited his
                    purpose in the present proceedings.
The Discretion Issue
151    Turning now to the Discretion Issue, this
                    issue raises a very simple point of law, namely: under our constitutional
                    framework, does the ultimate authority have a discretion in exercising the
                    clemency power, or is he bound to follow the Cabinet’s advice? In this
                    regard, it should be noted that the Discretion Issue does not concern the question of who the ultimate authority is under
                    our constitutional framework – it is clear from the wording of
                    Art 22P (especially Art 22P(1)) that the ultimate authority in our
                    local context is the President since it is he who carries out the formal act of
                    either granting or refusing clemency to an offender (in this regard, see also
                        [111] above).
The Judge’s decision on the Discretion Issue
152    Mr Ravi’s argument before the
                    Judge was that the President did not necessarily have to act on the advice of
                    the Cabinet in exercising the clemency power. His argument rested specifically
                    on the word “may” in the phrase “may, on the advice of the
                    Cabinet” in Art 22P(1). It was contended that Art 22P vested
                    the clemency power in the President and not the Cabinet; therefore, in view of
                        Art 21(2)(i) of the Singapore
                    Constitution, the President could act in his own discretion in exercising the
                    clemency power. Mr Ravi cited no authority for his argument, perhaps
                    because he was unable to find any supporting authority and/or perhaps because he
                    thought it was unnecessary to cite any authority in support, the law on this
                    point being (in his view) clear and well established.
153    In the HC Judgment, the Judge rejected
                    Mr Ravi’s argument as follows:
69    Under the [Singapore] Constitution, the default
                            position is that the President acts in accordance with the advice of the
                            Cabinet or a Minister acting under the general authority of the Cabinet.
                            This is specifically provided for under Art 21(1) of the
                            [Singapore] Constitution:

Discharge and performance of
                            functions of President


21.—(1) Except as provided by
                            this Constitution, the President shall, in the exercise of his functions
                            under this Constitution or any other written law, act
                                in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet or of a Minister acting
                                under the general authority of the Cabinet.
…
The exceptions to this default position are exhaustively set
                        out in Art 21(2), which provides that the President may act in his
                        discretion for the following functions:
(2)    The President
                                    may act in his discretion in the
                                performance of the following functions:
(a)    the
                                    appointment of the Prime Minister in accordance with
                                    Article 25;
(b)    the
                                    withholding of consent to a request for a dissolution of
                                    Parliament;
(c)    the
                                    withholding of assent to any Bill under Article *5A, 22E,
                                    22H, 144(2) or 148A;
*Article 5A was not in operation at the date of this
                                Reprint.
(d)    the
                                    withholding of concurrence under Article 144 to any
                                    guarantee or loan to be given or raised by the
                                    Government;
(e)    the
                                    withholding of concurrence and approval to the appointments and
                                    budgets of the statutory boards and Government companies to
                                    which Articles 22A and 22C, respectively,
                                apply;
(f)    the
                                    disapproval of transactions referred to in Article 22B(7),
                                    22D(6) or 148G;
(g)    the
                                    withholding of concurrence under Article 151(4) in relation
                                    to the detention or further detention of any person under any
                                    law or ordinance made or promulgated in pursuance of
                                    Part XII;
(h)    the exercise
                                    of his functions under section 12 of the Maintenance of
                                    Religious Harmony Act (Cap. 167A); and
(i)    any other
                                    function the performance of which the President is authorised by
                                    this Constitution to act in his discretion.
...
(5)    The Legislature
                                may by law make provision to require the President to act after
                                consultation with, or on the recommendation of, any person or body
                                of persons other than the Cabinet in the exercise of his functions
                                other than —
(a)    functions
                                    exercisable in his discretion; and
(b)    functions
                                    with respect to the exercise of which provision is made in any
                                    other provision of this Constitution.
…
70    Mr Ravi submitted that based on the saving
                            clause under Art 21(2)(i), the
                            President may act in his own discretion to grant pardons since the
                            discretion to do so is vested with the President and not the Cabinet
                            under [Art] 22P. However[,] on a plain reading of
                            [Art] 22P(1), it is clear that the President does not have any
                            discretion and can only act on the advice of the Cabinet in granting a
                            pardon to a convicted offender …
[emphasis in original]
Our decision on the Discretion Issue
154    We agree with the Judge’s
                    interpretation of Art 22P as set out in the above extract from the HC
                    Judgment. Mr Ravi’s argument on the Discretion Issue is wholly
                    misconceived. Mr Ravi pursued his argument even though he (and, presumably,
                    his advisers) must have known that the position which he advocated was not the
                    law under a Constitution based on the Westminster model (such as the Singapore
                    Constitution (see Ong Ah Chuan at 669)) since he
                    actually referred to (inter alia) a decision of
                    the Supreme Court of India (viz, Maru Ram) in connection with his argument on the
                    Justiciability Issue, (seemingly) without being aware that that decision made it
                    abundantly clear that the ultimate authority had no discretion in the exercise
                    of the clemency power (see below at [175]).
                    Indeed, as alluded to at [150] above, in
                    citing authorities which he believed to be supportive of his case on the
                    Discretion Issue, Mr Ravi in fact undermined his own case.
155    In our view, there are four factors which
                    render Mr Ravi’s argument on the Discretion Issue untenable,
                    namely:
(a)     the wording of
                    Art 22P;
(b)     the
                        legislative history of the clemency power in this
                    jurisdiction;
(c)     case
                        law on the clemency power; and
(d)     the nature of the President’s powers under
                        Singapore’s constitutional framework.
We shall
                    elaborate on these factors seriatim in the analysis which follows.
The wording of Art 22P
156    Taking the first of the aforesaid factors,
                    the wording of Art 22P makes it clear that the President has no discretion
                    as to how the clemency power should be exercised in a particular case. This
                    Article provides as follows:

22P.—(1) The
                        President, as occasion shall arise, may, on the advice of
                            the Cabinet —
(a)    grant a pardon
                                to any accomplice in any offence who gives information which leads
                                to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of the
                                principal offenders, if more than one;
(b)    grant to any
                                offender convicted of any offence in any court in Singapore, a
                                pardon, free or subject to lawful conditions, or any reprieve or
                                respite, either indefinite or for such period as the President may
                                think fit, of the execution of any sentence pronounced on such
                                offender; or
(c)    remit the whole
                                or any part of such sentence or of any penalty or forfeiture imposed
                                by law.
(2)    Where any offender has been condemned to death by
                            the sentence of any court and in the event of an appeal such sentence
                            has been confirmed by the appellate court, the President shall cause the
                            reports which are made to him by the Judge who tried the case and the
                            Chief Justice or other presiding Judge of the appellate court to be
                            forwarded to the Attorney-General with instructions that, after the
                            Attorney-General has given his opinion thereon, the reports shall be
                            sent, together with the Attorney-General’s opinion, to the Cabinet
                                so that the Cabinet may advise the President on
                                the exercise of the power conferred on him by
                                clause (1).
[emphasis added]
157    The words “on the advice of the
                    Cabinet” in Art 22P(1) cannot be any clearer, especially when they
                    are read in the light of the words “act in accordance with the advice of
                    the Cabinet” in Art 21(1). The aforesaid words in Art 22P(1)
                    mean what they say. They do not mean what Mr Ravi says they mean, ie, that the President may act against the advice of the Cabinet. Mr Ravi has made great
                    play on the word “may” in the phrase “may, on the advice of
                    the Cabinet” in Art 22P(1) as vesting a personal discretion in the
                    President. Mr Ravi is wrong. The word “may” in that context
                    does not connote a personal discretion which allows the President to reject the
                    advice of the Cabinet as to how the clemency power is to be exercised in a
                    particular case – otherwise, the advice of the Cabinet would be pointless.
                    The word “may” in Art 22P(1) simply vests the President with
                    the constitutional power to make a clemency decision (as defined at
                    sub-para (c) of [34] above) on the
                    advice of the Cabinet –
                    ie, that word has an authorising or enabling
                    effect, absent which the President would have no legal power to make any
                    decision under Art 22P.
The legislative history of the clemency power in this
                jurisdiction
158    Our view that the President has no
                    discretion in exercising the clemency power is incontrovertibly supported by the
                    legislative history of the clemency power in this jurisdiction (presently
                    embodied in Art 22P).
159    From 1819 to 1963, Singapore was part of the
                    UK. The first direct election to the Legislative Council of Singapore was held
                    in 1948 (Singapore having become a separate Crown colony in 1946) pursuant to
                    the Singapore Colony Orders in Council 1946 to 1948, which comprised the
                    Singapore Colony Order in Council 1946 (GN No S 2/1946), the Singapore
                    Colony (Amendment) Order in Council 1947 (GN No S 128/1947), the
                    Singapore Colony (Amendment) Order in Council 1948 (GN No S 75/1948)
                    and the Singapore Colony (Amendment) (No 2) Order in Council 1948 (GN
                    No S 113/1948). The first real change in Singapore’s
                    constitutional order came with the appointment in 1953 of the constitutional
                    commission headed by Sir George Rendel (commonly known as “the
                    Rendel Commission”), most of whose recommendations were implemented
                    through the promulgation of the Singapore Colony Order in Council 1955 (GN
                    No S 38/1955) (“the 1955 Order in
                Council”).
(1)   The 1955 Order in Council
160    Section 6 of the 1955 Order in Council
                    provided for a Governor and Commander-in-Chief (“Governor”) over
                    the Colony of Singapore. Under s 19, the Governor was obliged to consult
                    with the Council of Ministers (consisting of the Governor as President, three
                        ex officio Ministers and six appointed
                    Ministers (see s 17)), and had to act in accordance with the advice of the
                    Council of Ministers in the exercise of all powers conferred upon him, except
                        (inter alia) “in the exercise of any
                    power which he [was] directed or empowered to exercise in his discretion”
                    (see s 19(1)(i)). The power to grant pardon was conferred upon the Governor
                    under s 14 as follows:
14.    When any offence has been committed for which the
                            offender may be tried in the Colony the Governor may, as he shall see
                            fit, in Her Majesty’s name and on Her Majesty’s behalf,
                            grant a pardon to any accomplice in such offence who shall give such
                            information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal offender,
                            or of any one of such principal offenders if more than one; and further,
                            may grant to any offender convicted of any such offence in any Court
                            within the Colony a pardon, either free or subject to lawful conditions,
                            or any respite, either indefinite or for such period as the Governor may
                            think fit, of the execution of any sentence passed on such offender, and
                            may remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalties or
                            forfeitures otherwise due to Her Majesty.
That power was expressly stated in s 15 to be exercisable by
                    the Governor “acting in his
                    discretion” [emphasis added].
161    The Instructions Passed under the Royal Sign
                    Manual and Signet to the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of
                    Singapore dated 24 February 1955 (“the 1955 Royal
                    Instructions”), which were published in the Colony of
                        Singapore Government Gazette Supplement (GN
                    No S 73/1955) on 4 March 1955, formed the constitutional
                    framework for the Colony of Singapore at that time, along with the 1955 Order in
                    Council. Under s 12 of the 1955 Royal Instructions, the exercise of the
                    power of pardon in death sentence cases was regulated as follows:

12.—(1)(a) Whenever any offender shall have been condemned by
                        the sentence of any civil court in the Colony to suffer death, the Governor shall call upon the Judge who presided at the
                            trial to make to him a written report of the case of such offender, and
                            shall cause such report to be taken into consideration at a meeting of
                            the Council of Ministers, and he may cause the said Judge to
                        be specially summoned to attend such meeting and to produce his notes taken
                        thereat.
(b)    The Governor shall
                            not pardon or reprieve any such offender unless it shall appear
                            expedient to him so to do upon receiving the advice
                                of the Council of Ministers thereon; but he is to decide either to extend or to withhold a pardon or
                                reprieve according to his own deliberate judgment, whether the
                                members of the Council of Ministers concur therein or
                                otherwise; entering, nevertheless, in the minutes of the
                            Council his reasons at length in case he should decide … such
                            question in opposition to the judgment of the majority of the members
                            thereof.
[emphasis added]
162    The terms of s 12 of the 1955 Royal
                    Instructions made it plain that the Governor had a personal discretion in
                    exercising the power of pardon. While he had the benefit of the advice of the
                    Council of Ministers, he could decide, “according to
                        his own deliberate judgment” [emphasis added] (see
                        s 12(1)(b)), not to follow that advice.
                    This was consistent with the Governor’s express power to grant pardon
                    “acting in his discretion” under s 15 of the 1955 Order in
                    Council. However, as s 12(1)(b) of the 1955
                    Royal Instructions also made clear, the Governor’s discretion in this
                    regard was not wholly unfettered: in the event
                    that the Governor decided to disregard the advice of the Council of Ministers,
                    he was obliged to give his reasons for doing so “at length” (see
                        s 12(1)(b)). It is noteworthy that such a
                    situation obtained during a time when Singapore was still a British
                    colony.
(2)   The Singapore (Constitution) Order in Council 1958 (GN
                No S 293/1958)
163    Time did not stand still after the aforesaid
                    constitutional framework was established. The British government decided to
                    grant statehood to Singapore in 1959, leading to the Colony of Singapore being
                    renamed “the State of Singapore” under the State of Singapore Act
                    1958 (c 59) (UK) (“the State of Singapore Act”). Although
                    Singapore ceased to be called “the Colony of Singapore”, its
                    legislature remained subject to the provisions of the Colonial Laws Validity Act
                    1865 (c 63) (UK) (see O Hood Phillips, “The Constitution of the
                    State of Singapore” [1960] PL 50 (“Phillips”) at p 53).
164    On 3 June 1959 (following the general
                    election held on 30 May 1959), the Singapore (Constitution) Order in
                    Council 1958 (GN No S 293/1958) (“the 1958 Order in
                    Council”), which was made pursuant to s 1 of the State of Singapore
                    Act, came into force. Under the 1958 Order in Council, responsibility for
                    internal security, finance and law was transferred from the UK to elected
                    Ministers. Singapore thereby acquired internal
                        self-government, with a Prime Minister and other Ministers
                    forming the Cabinet, which was collectively responsible to the Legislative
                    Assembly. The Instructions Passed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet to the
                    Yang di-Pertuan Negara, Singapore, dated 12 December 1958 (“the 1958
                    Royal Instructions”), which were published in the Colony of Singapore Government Gazette Supplement (GN
                    No S 166/1959) on 10 April 1959, completed the constitutional
                    instruments that were applicable to Singapore at that particular point in
                    time.
165    Under s 4(1) of the 1958 Order in
                    Council, the Queen’s representative in Singapore was given the Malay title
                    of “Yang di-Pertuan Negara” (ie,
                    Head of State). The functions of the Yang di-Pertuan Negara were “similar
                    to those of a Governor-General of a Dominion or Head of State as regards such
                    matters as the appointment and dismissal of Ministers, assenting to Bills and
                    dissolving the [Legislative] Assembly” (see Phillips at p 55). Under s 9 of the 1958 Order in
                    Council, the Yang di-Pertuan Negara had the power to grant pardon as
                    follows:
9.    The Yang di-Pertuan
                            Negara, as occasion shall arise, may, in Her Majesty’s name and on
                            Her Majesty’s behalf —
(i)    grant a pardon to any accomplice in any
                                offence (being an offence for which the offender may be tried in
                                Singapore) who gives information which leads to the conviction of
                                the principal offender or any one of the principal offenders if more
                                than one;
(ii)   grant to any offender convicted of any
                                offence in any court in Singapore a pardon, either free or subject
                                to lawful conditions, or any respite, either indefinite or for such
                                period as the Yang di-Pertuan Negara may think fit, of the execution
                                of any sentence passed on such offender; and
(iii)   remit the whole or any part of any such
                                sentence or of any penalty or forfeiture otherwise due to Her
                                Majesty:
Provided that the power conferred by this section shall not extend to any
                        trial before, or any conviction in or any sentence, penalty or forfeiture
                        imposed by any court-martial (however styled) other than a court-martial
                        constituted by or under any law which was enacted (whether before or after
                        the appointed day [as defined in s 1(1) of the 1958 Order in Council])
                        by any legislature in Singapore and which is applicable only to naval or
                        military forces raised in Singapore by virtue of any law so enacted.
166    Unlike the 1955 Order in Council and the
                    1955 Royal Instructions, neither the 1958 Order in
                    Council nor the 1958 Royal Instructions expressly
                    provided that the power of pardon was exercisable by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara
                    acting in his discretion. Instead, s 2(a) of
                    the 1958 Royal Instructions required the Yang di-Pertuan Negara to consult with
                    the Cabinet, or a Minister acting under the general authority of the Cabinet, in
                    the exercise of all his powers and functions, other than: (a) those powers
                    and functions which were expressed to be exercisable by him on the advice of any
                    person or authority other than the Cabinet (for example, on the advice of the
                    United Kingdom Commissioner or the Public Service Commission referred to in
                    s 15 and s 76 respectively of the 1958 Order in Council); and
                    (b) those powers and functions which were expressed to be exercisable by
                    him in his discretion (for example, the appointment and the dismissal of the
                    Prime Minister under s 21(1) and s 22(1)(c) respectively of the 1958 Order in Council, and the
                    dissolution of the Legislative Assembly under s 62(3) thereof). Where the
                    Yang di-Pertuan Negara was required to consult with the Cabinet or a Minister or
                    some other person or authority, he must act in
                    accordance with the advice given (see ss 2(b)
                    and 2(c) of the 1958 Royal Instructions).
                    Particularly in relation to the exercise of the power of
                        pardon, s 1 of the 1958 Royal Instructions provided for the
                    following procedure:
1.    Where any offender has been condemned to death by
                            the sentence of any court, the Yang di-Pertuan Negara shall cause the
                            report which is made to him by the Judge who tried the case to be
                            forwarded to the State Advocate-General with instructions that, after
                            the State Advocate-General has advised thereon, the report shall be
                            sent, together with the State Advocate-General’s advice, to the
                            Cabinet, so that the Cabinet may advise the Yang
                                di-Pertuan Negara on the exercise of the powers conferred on him by
                                section 9 of the [1958 Order in Council]. [emphasis
                            added]
(3)   The Sabah, Sarawak and Singapore (State Constitutions) Order
                in Council 1963 (GN Sp No S 1/1963)
167    Singapore obtained its independence from the
                    UK by joining the Federation of Malaya and the former British colonies of North
                    Borneo and Sarawak to form the Federation of Malaysia (“the
                    Federation”) on 16 September 1963. Under s 4(2)(c) of the Malaysia Act (No 26 of 1963)
                    (M’sia) (“the Malaysia Act”), Singapore became a State of
                    the Federation. As a State of the Federation, Singapore operated the State
                    Constitution set out in Sched 3 to the Sabah, Sarawak and Singapore (State
                    Constitutions) Order in Council 1963 (GN Sp No S 1/1963) (“the
                    Constitution of the State of Singapore”) under the overarching purview of
                    the Federation of Malaysia Constitution (“the 1963 Federal
                    Constitution”). Under Art 5(3) of the Constitution of the State of
                    Singapore, the Legislature was empowered to make provision for requiring the
                    Yang di-Pertuan Negara to act after consultation with or on the recommendation
                    of any person or body of persons other than the Cabinet in the exercise of his
                    functions, other than functions exercisable in his discretion (see
                        Art 5(3)(a) of the Constitution of the
                    State of Singapore) and functions in respect of which provision for the exercise
                    was made in any other provision of either the Constitution of the State of
                    Singapore or the 1963 Federal Constitution (see Art 5(3)(b) of the Constitution of the State of Singapore).
168    Under Art 42(1) of the 1963 Federal
                    Constitution, the Ruler or Governor of a State (which, under s 5 of the
                    Malaysia Act, included the Yang di-Pertuan Negara in Singapore) had the power to
                    grant pardon in respect of all offences committed in his State, except offences
                    tried by court martial. Under Art 42(4)(b),
                    this power was to be exercised on the advice of a Pardons Board constituted for
                    that State. There was no provision expressly stating that the power to grant
                    pardon was exercisable by the Yang di-Pertuan Negara acting in his personal
                    discretion.
(4)   The Republic of Singapore Independence Act 1965 (Act 9
                of 1965) and Art 22P 
169    When Singapore left the Federation on
                    Singapore Day (ie, 9 August 1965) and became
                    an independent sovereign republic, the Singapore government retained the
                    Constitution of the State of Singapore and supplemented it with specific
                    Articles from the 1963 Federal Constitution via the Republic of Singapore
                    Independence Act 1965 (Act 9 of 1965) (referred to hereafter as
                    “Act 9 of 1965” for short) (see Evolution
                        of a Revolution: Forty Years of the Singapore Constitution
                    (Li-ann Thio & Kevin Y L Tan eds) (Routledge-Cavendish, 2009) at
                    p 1). This is not surprising in view of the fact that the Constitution of
                    the State of Singapore, as its very title
                    suggests, was incomplete at that particular point in time inasmuch as it was
                    intended for a State within a federation, and not
                    for a fully independent nation as such.
170    More significantly for the purposes of the
                    present appeal, Act 9 of 1965 reserved to the President the power to grant
                    pardon as follows:

Grant of pardon.

8.—(1) The
                        President, as occasion shall arise, may, on the advice of the
                        Cabinet —
(a)    grant a pardon
                                to any accomplice in any offence who gives information which leads
                                to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of the
                                principal offenders, if more than one;
(b)    grant to any
                                offender convicted of any offence in any court in Singapore, a
                                pardon, free or subject to lawful conditions, or any reprieve or
                                respite, either indefinite or for such period as the President may
                                think fit, of the execution of any sentence pronounced on such
                                offender; or
(c)    remit the whole
                                or any part of such sentence or of any penalty or forfeiture imposed
                                by law.
(2)    Where any offender has been condemned to death by
                            the sentence of any court and in the event of an appeal such sentence
                            has been confirmed by the appellate court, the President shall cause the
                            reports which are made to him by the Judge who tried the case and the
                            Chief Justice or other presiding Judge of the appellate court to be
                            forwarded to the Attorney-General with instructions that, after the
                            Attorney-General has given his opinion thereon, the reports shall be
                            sent, together with the Attorney-General’s opinion, to the Cabinet
                            so that the Cabinet may advise the President on the exercise of the
                            power conferred on him by subsection (1).
Sections 8(1) and 8(2) of Act 9 of 1965 were
                    subsequently reproduced as ss 8(1) and 8(2) of the Republic of Singapore
                    Independence Act 1965 (1985 Rev Ed) (“the
                RSIA”).
171    Sections 8(1) and 8(2) of Act 9 of
                    1965/the RSIA have since been incorporated, verbatim, into the Singapore
                    Constitution as Arts 22P(1) and 22P(2) respectively (see Halsbury’s Laws of Singapore vol 1 (LexisNexis,
                    2008 Reissue) at para 10.843, fn 1). The specific procedure laid
                    down in Art 22P(2) is the same as the procedure which has been adopted
                    since the 1958 Order in Council and the 1958 Royal Instructions came into force,
                        viz: the President (previously, the Yang
                    di-Pertuan Negara) shall cause the report made to him by the trial judge and (in
                    the event of an appeal from the trial judge’s decision) the report made to
                    him by the presiding judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the
                    Attorney-General (previously, the State Advocate-General) for the
                    Attorney-General to provide his opinion thereon, and, thereafter, the aforesaid
                    report(s) shall be sent, together with the Attorney-General’s opinion, to
                    the Cabinet for its consideration so that it may advise the President on the
                    exercise of the clemency power.
172    Mr Ravi, in trying to make good his
                    argument on the Discretion Issue, traced the historical development of the
                    clemency power in this jurisdiction from the time when the clemency power was a
                    prerogative power exercisable by the Governor of Singapore and then the Yang
                    di-Pertuan Negara right through to Singapore Day, when this power was enacted
                    via s 8 of Act 9 of 1965. In the course of doing so, Mr Ravi referred
                    to the speech in Parliament of the then Prime Minister, Mr Lee Kuan Yew
                    (“Mr Lee”), at the second reading of the Bill to enact
                    Act 9 of 1965 (viz, the Republic of Singapore
                    Independence Bill 1965 (Bill 43 of 1965)
                    (“Bill 43/1965”)), as follows (see Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official Report
                    (22 December 1965) vol 24 at col 439):
Clause 8 [which later became s 8 of Act 9 of 1965] invests
                        the power of pardon [i]n the President who will exercise
                            it in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet. [emphasis
                        added]
173    Nothing can be clearer than the above words
                    in showing that the clemency power, although exercised by and in the name of the
                    President, is to be exercised in accordance with
                    the advice of the Cabinet. In this regard, it is also significant that the
                    Explanatory Statement to Bill 43/1965 stated that “[t]he power of
                    pardon [was to be] made exercisable by the President on the
                        advice of the Cabinet” [emphasis added]. Mr Ravi
                    cited Mr Lee’s speech in Parliament at the second reading of
                    Bill 43/1965 (“Mr Lee’s parliamentary speech on
                    Bill 43/1965”) to support his argument (vis-à-vis the Justiciability Issue) that the clemency power was
                    subject to judicial review, but it failed to register in his mind that the same
                    statement completely undermined his other argument (vis-à-vis the Discretion Issue) that the President was not bound
                    by the advice of the Cabinet in exercising the clemency power.
174    Therefore, as the legislative history of the
                    clemency power in Singapore clearly demonstrates, apart from ss 14 and 15
                    of the 1955 Order in Council and s 12 of the 1955 Royal Instructions (which
                    made it abundantly clear that the Governor could act in his discretion according
                    to his own deliberate judgment when exercising the clemency power, albeit with
                    certain significant conditions (see above at [160]–[162])), none
                    of the legislative predecessors of Art 22P since 1958 (when, significantly,
                    Singapore was on the cusp of embarking on the incipient steps of its journey
                    towards full independence) expressly stated that the President could exercise
                    the clemency power acting in his discretion. The legislative history of the
                    clemency power in this jurisdiction indicates plainly that Art 22P excludes
                    any role for the President’s personal discretion in the exercise of the
                    clemency power.
Case law on the clemency power
175    Let us now turn to the relevant case law on
                    the exercise of the clemency power which supports our conclusion that the
                    President has no discretion in exercising the clemency power. In the context of
                    the Justiciability Issue, Mr Ravi referred to two Indian Supreme Court
                    decisions (viz, Maru
                        Ram and Epuru Sudhakar (see
                        [65]–[66] above)) as authorities in support of his argument that the
                    clemency power was not immune from judicial review. However, he appeared to have
                    overlooked the following passage from [61] of Maru Ram, which undermined
                    his argument, vis-à-vis the Discretion Issue, that
                    the President could act in his own discretion in exercising the clemency power
                    and was not bound by the advice of the Cabinet. At [61] of Maru Ram, three members of
                    the court (namely, Y V Chandrachud CJ,
                    P N Bhagwati J and V R Krishna Iyer J) stated in
                    their joint judgment:
It is fundamental to the Westminster system that the Cabinet rules and the
                        Queen reigns being too deeply rooted as foundational to our system no
                        serious encounter was met from the learned Solicitor-General whose sure
                        grasp of fundamentals did not permit him to controvert the proposition, that
                            the President and the Governor, be they ever so high
                            in textual terminology, are but functional euphemisms promptly acting on
                            andonlyon the advice of the Council of Ministers have in a
                            narrow area of power. The subject is now beyond controversy,
                        this Court having authoritatively laid down the law in [Samsher Singh v State of Punjab and another AIR 1974
                        SC 2192]. So, we agree, even without reference to Article 367(1)
                        [of the Indian Constitution, which provides for the application of the
                        General Clauses Act 1897 (Act No 10 of 1897) (India) to the
                        interpretation of the Indian Constitution] and Sections 3(8)(b) and 3(60)(b) of the
                        General Clauses Act, 1897 [which define the terms “Central
                        Government” and “State Government” respectively as used
                        in Indian legislation], that, in the matter of exercise of the powers under
                        Articles 72 and 161 [ie, the power vested
                        in, respectively, the President and the Governor of a State to grant
                        clemency], the two highest dignitaries in our
                            constitutional scheme act and must act not on their own judgment but in
                            accordance with the aid and advice of the ministers.
                        Article 74, after the 42nd Amendment [which states that the President
                        shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in accordance with the advice
                        of the Council of Ministers] silences speculation and obligates compliance.
                        The Governor vis-à-vis his Cabinet is no higher than the President save in a
                        narrow area which does not include Article 161. The
                            constitutional conclusion is that the Governor is but a shorthand
                            expression for the State Government and the President is an abbreviation
                            for the Central Government. [emphasis in original in italics;
                        emphasis added in bold italics]
176    In Kehar Singh and
                        another v Union of India and another AIR 1989 SC 653
                        (“Kehar Singh”) (which
                    Mr Ravi did not cite to us), the Supreme Court of India (consisting of a
                    bench of five judges) said (at [7] per R S Pathak CJ):
The power to pardon is a part of the constitutional scheme … in the
                        Indian Republic. It has been reposed by the people through the Constitution
                        in the Head of the State, and enjoys high status. It is a constitutional
                        responsibility of great significance, to be exercised when occasion arises
                        in accordance with the discretion contemplated by the context. It is not
                        denied, and indeed it has been repeatedly affirmed in the course of argument
                        by [counsel for the petitioners] that the power to pardon rests on the
                        advice tendered by the Executive to the President, who subject to the
                        provisions of Art. 74(1) of the Constitution, must act in accordance
                        with such advice. We may point out that the Constitution Bench of this Court
                        held in [Maru Ram] that the
                            [clemency] power under Art. 72 is to be exercised on the advice of
                            the Central Government and not by the President on his own, and that the
                            advice of the Government binds the Head of the State.
                        [emphasis added]
177    In our view, what was stated by the Supreme
                    Court of India in Maru Ram and Kehar Singh is elementary constitutional law that any student of
                    the subject must know, namely: under a Constitution based on the Westminster
                    model, like ours, the President is a constitutional Head of State and must act
                    on the advice of the Cabinet in the exercise of his executive powers, except for
                    those powers that, by express constitutional authority, he may exercise acting
                    in his discretion, such as the appointment of the Prime Minister and the
                    dissolution of Parliament. This also brings us to the next factor which rebuts
                    Mr Ravi’s argument on the Discretion Issue, namely, the nature of the
                    President’s powers under our constitutional framework. Specifically, what
                    we will examine below is whether the clemency power is one of the powers which
                    the Singapore Constitution permits the President to exercise in his
                    discretion.
The nature of the President’s powers under Singapore’s
                constitutional framework
178    Prior to the establishment of the elected
                    Presidency via s 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore
                    (Amendment) Act 1991 (Act 5 of 1991), which came into effect on
                    30 November 1991, the position under our constitutional framework was that
                    “[t]he President was a constitutional Head of State with very little
                    discretionary powers, save in the appointment of the Prime Minister and the
                    dissolution of Parliament at the request of the Prime Minister” (see
                    Kevin Y L Tan & Thio Li-ann, Constitutional Law in Malaysia and Singapore (LexisNexis,
                    3rd Ed, 2010) at p 362; see also the authorities cited by Chan CJ
                    at [19] above). In contrast, after the
                    establishment of the elected Presidency, the President was vested with certain
                    additional discretionary powers (“the additional discretionary
                    powers”). These are now specified in Art 21(2) of the Singapore
                    Constitution (reproduced in the extract from [69] of the HC Judgment quoted at [153] above), which explicitly declares that the President
                        “may act in his discretion”
                    [emphasis added] in exercising such powers. These words clearly serve to
                    distinguish the additional discretionary powers from the President’s
                    traditional pre-existing powers prior to the establishment of the elected
                    Presidency, the latter powers being exercisable by the President only “in
                    accordance with the advice of the Cabinet or of a Minister acting under the
                    general authority of the Cabinet” (see Art 21(1)).
179    According to Constitutional Amendments to Safeguard Financial Assets and the Integrity
                        of the Public Services (White Paper, Cmd 10 of 1988,
                    29 July 1988), the purpose of conferring the additional discretionary
                    powers on the President was to enable him to “[protect] the
                    Republic’s financial assets, and [preserve] the integrity of the public
                    services” (at para 20). In a subsequent White Paper explaining the
                    proposed constitutional amendments to provide for the elected Presidency,
                        Safeguarding Financial Assets and the Integrity of the
                        Public Services: The Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (Amendment
                        No 3) Bill (Cmd 11 of 1990, 27 August 1990), the
                    additional discretionary powers were summarised as follows:

Summary of Discretionary Powers

48.    The President will
                            have the discretion to withhold concurrence to:
a.    the budgets of the Government, and of key
                                Government companies and statutory boards;
b.    any debt, guarantee or loan to be incurred,
                                given or raised by the Government;
c.    certain appointments to office;
d.    requests to issue a Proclamation of
                                Emergency;
e.    detentions under the Internal Security Act,
                                contrary to the recommendations of the Advisory Board;
                            and
f.    decisions by a Minister under the Maintenance
                                of Religious Harmony Bill, contrary to the recommendations of the
                                Presidential Council for Religious Harmony.
49.    The President can also authorise Director CPIB to
                            carry out any inquiries or investigations into a Minister if the Prime
                            Minister had withheld consent to such investigations.
The power to pardon is conspicuously absent from this list of
                    personal discretionary powers. This is manifestly understandable, given that
                    that power is not a power or function which is related to the President’s
                    ultimate duty of protecting Singapore’s financial assets and preserving
                    the integrity of the public services.
180    In the light of all these considerations, on
                    a plain reading of the Singapore Constitution, the President may not exercise
                    the clemency power acting in his personal discretion. Instead, the clemency
                    power falls under the default position with regard to the President’s
                    powers as stated in Art 21(1), ie:
                    “the President shall … act in accordance with the advice of the
                    Cabinet or of a Minister acting under the general authority of the
                    Cabinet”. Thus, the President may only exercise the clemency power in
                    favour of an offender in circumstances where the Cabinet has advised him to do
                    so. Where the Cabinet has advised him not to grant a pardon, there is no
                    provision under either Art 22P or elsewhere in the Singapore Constitution
                    that confers upon the President the power to act in his own personal discretion
                    contrary to the advice of the Cabinet.
Summary of our views on Mr Ravi’s argument on the
                Discretion Issue
181    The four factors analysed above –
                    namely, the wording of Art 22P, the legislative history of the clemency
                    power in this jurisdiction, case law on the clemency power and the nature of the
                    President’s powers under our constitutional framework – demonstrate
                    the fallacy of Mr Ravi’s argument on the Discretion Issue (ie, that the President may exercise the clemency power
                    in his own discretion and is not bound by the Cabinet’s advice). What
                    undermined this argument completely was that Mr Ravi himself rebutted it
                    (albeit unwittingly) when he read to us Mr Lee’s parliamentary speech
                    on Bill 43/1965 in the mistaken belief that that speech supported his
                    argument (see [172]-[173] above). In this regard, we would caution that whilst
                    counsel has unfettered licence to raise all arguable points of law in support of
                    a client’s case, it is improper for counsel to make an obviously hopeless
                    argument (ie, an argument which any reasonable
                    lawyer would know is bound to fail), especially if he advances the argument for
                    an extraneous purpose. Such conduct may (depending on the facts in question)
                    amount to a serious abuse of process, even if it occurs in a situation where
                    counsel is acting for a client in a case of the utmost gravity for the client,
                    as in the present case.
The Legitimate Expectation Issue
182    Having dealt with the Discretion Issue, we
                    now turn to the related matter of the Legitimate Expectation Issue. As pointed
                    out by Chan CJ at [23] above,
                    Mr Ravi raised the Legitimate Expectation Issue only in the course of his
                    oral submissions before this court, and did not give advance notice to the
                    Respondent even though he knew beforehand that he was going to bring up the
                    issue. He claimed that, as in the case of his objection to Chan CJ’s
                    hearing this appeal, it did not occur to him until very late in the day that the
                    Legitimate Expectation Issue was an issue which “would be that
                        serious”.[note: ii]
183    Be that as it may, we reproduce below in
                    full Mr Ravi’s argument on the Legitimate Expectation Issue as set
                    out in the “First Speaking Note on Behalf of the Appellant”
                    (“the First Speaking Note”):
14.    Further, a
                            legitimate expectation has arisen to the effect that it is the President
                            who will make the clemency
                            decision.
15.    It is
                            well-established that: “Where a public authority has issued a
                            promise or adopted a practice which represents how it proposes to act in
                            a given area, the law will require the promise or practice to be
                            honoured unless there is good reason not to do so”: Nadarajah v Secretary of State for the Home
                                Department[2005] EWCA Civ 1363 at [68]. This
                            principle is in the interests of “good administration” and
                            such expectations may “go beyond enforceable legal rights,
                            provided they have some reasonable basis”: Attorney General v Ng Yuen Shiu[1983] 2 W.L.R. 735 at 638F (Privy
                            Council).
16.    The legitimate
                            expectation in the present case derives from two
                            sources.
17.    In the first place,
                            the Respondent himself in the present proceedings has accepted that
                            “in theory it is the President who exercises the prerogative of
                            mercy” (exhibit MR-3 at
                            [31])[.]
18.    In additions
                                [sic], reliance is placed on the
                            following newspaper articles relating to the clemency power (emphasis
                            added):
a.    “Reprieve
                                for Death Row woman”:

THE President has granted clemency
                                to Siti Aminah binti Jaffar, 24, a prisoner convicted and sentenced
                                to death under the Misuse of Drugs Act, 1973.
She is the first person in Singapore to obtain reprieve from the President for a death sentence in
                                a drug case …
b.    “Drugs
                                woman told she will not hang”: The Straits
                                    Times, 19 February 1983,
                            page 9:
… A WOMAN who was sentenced to death five years ago has
                                been told she will not be hanged …
…
                                President Devan has granted Siti Aminah
                                    clemency. Instead she will serve life
                                imprisonment.
c.    
                “President Wee pardons
                                Somkid”: The Straits
                                    Times, 22 July 1989, page 1:

PRESIDENT Wee Kim Wee yesterday granted
                                    clemency to Somkid Kamjan, the Thai illegal worker
                                whose sentence of caning and jail provoked an uproar in Bangkok
                                …
d.    
                “President grants clemency to mum on
                                death row”, The Straits
                                Times:
A MOTHER of two who was in [sic]
                                death row for more than six years escaped the gallows after she was
                                    granted clemency by the President
                                on Saturday.
It was only the fourth time in more than three decades that
                                    such a reprieve was granted by a head of
                                    state in Singapore …
e.    “Youth on
                                murder rap escapes gallows”, The Straits
                                    Times, 5 May 1998, page 3:

PRESIDENTIAL PARDON

A 19 YEAR-OLD youth, who was awaiting the death sentence for
                                murder, was spared from the gallows after receiving a pardon from President Ong Teng
                                    Cheong.
19.    In relation to these articles it is important to
                            note that The Straits Times is under the
                            direct control of the government and therefore its contents constitute
                            statements of State practice authorised by the government. As a result,
                            and in accordance with the principle of legitimate expectation, the law
                            will require the State to abide by its repeatedly expressed statement of
                            practice that the clemency decision is to be taken by the President, and
                            not the Cabinet.
[underlining and emphasis in bold in original]
184    It is unnecessary for us to discuss at
                    length the law in Singapore as regards legitimate expectations for the purposes
                    of dealing with Mr Ravi’s argument on the Legitimate Expectation
                    Issue. This is because Mr Ravi himself destroyed his own case on this issue
                    when, in contradiction of his stance that the Appellant had a legitimate
                    expectation that the clemency power would be exercised by the President in his
                    discretion, he read out to us a newspaper article (viz, Sue-Ann Chia, “Drug trafficker asks for
                    clemency”
                    The Straits Times (19 March 2005) at
                    p 42), in which President S R Nathan
                    (“President Nathan”) was reported to have said:
… It is the Cabinet that considers all the factors involved before
                        making a decision on [a] plea for clemency …
… I am constitutionally bound to adhere to the rules of [the]
                        Cabinet and [its] recommendations. …
By the above statements, President Nathan was clearly reiterating
                    to the public the constitutional position that he was under a duty to act in
                    accordance with the advice of the Cabinet in exercising the power of clemency,
                    and had no discretion in the matter, even if he personally wished to grant
                    clemency to an offender. In view of President Nathan’s statements, it
                    was impossible for Mr Ravi to argue that the Appellant had a legitimate
                    expectation that the President would do what he had said he could not do, ie, exercise the
                    clemency power in his discretion.
185    Indeed, we found Mr Ravi’s
                    argument on the Legitimate Expectation Issue to be absolutely without merit,
                    both on the facts and on the law. With regard to
                    the facts relied on by Mr Ravi (ie, the
                    newspaper reports mentioned at para 18 of the First Speaking Note), those
                    newspaper reports do not in any way show that the President or the Cabinet
                    previously promised the public that the clemency power would be exercised by the
                    President in his discretion, as opposed to on the Cabinet’s advice. None
                    of the aforesaid newspaper reports conveys a representation or promise of any
                    kind, whether by the President or the Cabinet, other than a representation of
                    fact that, as reported, an offender had been granted clemency.
                    Mr Ravi’s contention that “The Straits
                        Times is under the direct control of the government and therefore
                    its contents constitute statements of State practice authorised by the
                        government”[note: 26] clearly rests on misconceived
                    assumptions of the relationship between the press and the elected government in
                    Singapore. Thus, any purported expectation on the Appellant’s part that
                    the President exercises the clemency power in his own discretion is neither
                    legitimate nor well founded.
186    Apropos the law on legitimate expectations,
                    for an alleged legitimate expectation to give rise to enforceable legal rights,
                    it is not enough that the alleged expectation exists; it must, in addition, be
                    legitimate. An expectation is legitimate only if it is founded upon a promise or
                    practice by a public authority that can be said to be bound to fulfil the
                    expectation. Clear statutory words will override any expectation (see the House
                    of Lords decision of Regina v Director of Public
                        Prosecutions, Ex parte Kebilene and Others [2000] 2 AC 326
                    at 368 per Lord Steyn). In this regard, we
                    have demonstrated above (at [156]–[157]) that it
                    is clear from the words “on the advice of the Cabinet” in
                    Art 22P(1) that the President cannot possibly make any promise to an
                    offender that he will act in his discretion in deciding whether or not to grant
                    clemency to that offender.
187    In short, Mr Ravi has failed to show,
                    both on the facts and on the law, that the expectation relied on by the
                    Appellant exists. That expectation existed only as a theoretical argument
                    advanced by Mr Ravi. It is devoid of any merit, and we reject it. We are
                    also minded to observe that the lack of even a scintilla of legal substance in
                    Mr Ravi’s submissions on this issue (as well as on the Discretion
                    Issue), coupled with the manner in which the submissions were made, borders on
                    an abuse of process.
The other issues arising in this appeal
188    The other issues in this appeal which we
                    have to decide are the Justiciability Issue, the Natural Justice Issue, the
                    Disclosure Issue and the Declaratory Relief Issue (see [15] and [144] above). With
                    regard to all these four issues, we agree with Chan CJ’s carefully
                    reasoned judgment. We would only add a few observations of our
                own.
189    
          Vis-à-vis the
                    Declaratory Relief Issue, as Chan CJ pointed out at [25] above, O 53 of the Rules of Court does
                    not provide for declaratory relief (see also [143] above). Accordingly, the declaration sought by the
                    Appellant (reproduced at [143] above) was a
                    non-starter from the outset, and the same applies to all the other reliefs
                    prayed for in OS 740/2010 which are dependent on that declaration being
                    granted.
190    In so far as the Justiciability Issue is
                    concerned, we agree with Chan CJ that the clemency power is subject to
                    judicial review if it is exercised contrary to the Chng Suan
                        Tze principle as elaborated on in Phyllis
                        Tan (see [80]
                above).
191    With respect to the Natural Justice Issue,
                    we agree with Chan CJ that the rule against bias applies to the clemency
                    process in principle, whereas the hearing rule does not (see, respectively,
                        [111] and [113] above). We would also point out that, given the nature of
                    the clemency power, the Cabinet, when advising the President on the exercise of
                    this power, cannot be held to the same standard of impartiality and objectivity
                    as that applicable to a court of law or a tribunal exercising a quasi-judicial
                    function. All that is required of the Cabinet is that it must abide by the
                    process set out in Art 22P, and must give its consideration fairly and
                    objectively to the matter at hand, having regard to the purpose of the clemency
                    power.
192    In this regard, it is important to bear in
                    mind that the grant of clemency is an act of grace on the part of the ultimate
                    authority. That being so, the Cabinet, in advising the President (the ultimate
                    authority in our local context) on whether or not to grant clemency in a
                    particular case, is entitled to take into account the public policy
                    considerations concerning the nature of the offence in question and the
                    legislative policy underlying the imposition of the prescribed punishment for
                    that offence. The Cabinet is not expected to ignore these policy considerations,
                    and its conduct in giving effect to such considerations by advising the
                    President not to grant clemency in a particular case cannot, without more,
                    amount to bias, whether actual or apparent.
193    With respect to the Disclosure Issue, as
                    noted by Chan CJ, Mr Ravi relied heavily on the disclosure holding in
                        Lewis (as defined at [129] above) to support the argument that the Appellant should
                    be given disclosure of the Art 22P(2) materials relating to his case so
                    that he can make adequate representations to the President on any fresh clemency
                    petition which he may wish to file. One of the reasons underlying the disclosure
                    holding in Lewis was the concern of the majority
                    in Lewis that the advisory body which was to
                    advise the ultimate authority on the exercise of the clemency power might act
                    “in an arbitrary or perverse way … or … in an improper,
                    unreasonable way” (see Lewis at
                76).
194    Apropos the aforesaid risk, we agree with
                    Chan CJ that it would be unjustifiable for our courts to regard it as a
                    factor favouring Mr Ravi’s argument on the Disclosure Issue, given
                    the constitutional standing of the persons involved in the clemency process in
                    our local context. Indeed, in our view, it would be not only unjustifiable, but
                    also wholly improper for our courts to be influenced by this risk. Anything is
                    possible, but the courts should not give countenance to fanciful fears of unfair
                    or unjust practices in the exercise of the clemency power when there is not a
                    single iota of evidence to warrant such fears – which is the position in
                    the present case. Mr Ravi’s argument apropos the aforesaid risk is
                    pure conjecture without any factual foundation whatsoever. In this connection,
                    we would also refer to the decision of the Supreme Court of India in Maru Ram at [62]
                    (reproduced at, inter alia, [65] above) which Mr Ravi relied on to
                    support his argument on the Justiciability Issue. It would appear that, as in
                    the case of his reliance on Mr Lee’s parliamentary speech on
                    Bill 43/1965 to support his argument on the Discretion Issue (see [172], [173]
                    and [181] above), Mr Ravi overlooked
                    the following sentence in the concurring judgment of Fazal Ali J, which
                    undermined his argument on the Disclosure Issue (see Maru
                        Ram at [94]):
It cannot be doubted as a proposition of law that where a power is vested
                        in a very high authority, it must be presumed that the said authority would
                        act properly and carefully after an objective consideration of all the
                        aspects of the matter.
195    In our view, it is clear that the decision
                    of the majority in Lewis (viz, that the offender in a death sentence case is entitled to
                    the full disclosure of all the materials placed before the advisory body tasked
                    with advising the ultimate authority on the exercise of the clemency power) was
                    based on considerations which have no application here. On the other hand, the
                    decisions of the Privy Council in de Freitas and
                        Reckley (viz,
                    that there is no such right of disclosure for the offender in a death sentence
                    case) were based on considerations which continue to be applicable here. We
                    agree with Chan CJ that the Appellant is not entitled to disclosure of the
                    Art 22P(2) materials relating to his case because an offender seeking
                    clemency has no constitutional right of hearing during the clemency process and
                    does not even have the constitutional right to present a clemency petition
                    (although, as pointed out by Chan CJ (at [114] above), in practice, an offender in a death sentence case
                    is always given the opportunity to present, if he wishes, a clemency petition to
                    the President for consideration under Art 22P).
Conclusion
196    For the reasons given above, like
                    Chan CJ, we are of the view that this appeal has no merit and we dismiss
                    it. There will be no order as to costs, having regard to the subject matter of
                    this appeal.
[note: 1]See the Appellant’s Core Bundle (“ACB”)
                                at vol 2, Tab 5.[note: 2]Ibid.[note: 3]Ibid.[note: 4]See ACB at vol 2,
                    Tab 3.[note: 5]See ACB at
                                vol 2, Tab 4.[note: 6]See
                                    prayer 7 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2,
                                    Tab 3).[note: 7]See
                                    prayer 8 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2, Tab
                                    3).[note: 8]See
                                    prayer 10 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2,
                                    Tab 3).[note: 9]See the
                                Respondent’s Case filed on 30 November 2010 (“the
                                Respondent’s Case”) at
                            para 10(A)(ii).[note: 10]See the Appellant’s Case at
                            pp 1–2.[note: 11]See the court’s notes taken at
                                the hearing of the appeal (“the CA’s notes of
                                Arguments”) at
                    pp 1–5.[note: 12]See the CA’s Notes of Arguments at
                            p 4.[note: 13]See the CA’s Notes of Arguments
                                at p 5.[note: 14]See the
                                CA’s Notes of Arguments at p 2.[note: 15]See the
                                Respondent’s Case at para 252.[note: 16]See prayer 8 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2,
                                Tab 3).[note: 17]Ibid.[note: 18]See ACB at vol 2,
                                Tab 5.[note: 19]Ibid.[note: 20]See
                                prayer 8 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2,
                                Tab 3).[note: 21]See the
                                15 May 2010 edition of TODAY (at
                                ACB vol 2, Tab 5).[note: 22]See
                                prayer 8 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2,
                                Tab 3).[note: 23]Ibid.[note: 24]Ibid.[note: 25]See prayer 2 of OS 740/2010 (at ACB vol 2,
                                Tab 3).[note: i]See the CA’s Notes of Arguments at
                            p 3.[note: ii]Ibid.[note: 26]See para 19 of the First Speaking
                                Note.Copyright © Government of Singapore.
