assessment orders were passed by the sales tax officer allowing the deductions of two amounts claimed by the respondent dealer under section 5(2)(a)(ii) of the orissa sales tax act in respect of goods sold to a registered dealer.
the respondent dealer filed appeals to the assistant collector sales tax, challenging the assessment on grounds which were not relevant and against those decisions revisions were filed by the dealer.
while the revisions were pending the orissa sales tax act was amended by orissa sales tax (amendment) act (orissa act, 10 of 1957) with the result that revisions were treated as appeals to the sales tax tribunal, and it enabled the government to file cross objections.
in pursuance, the state filed cross objections challenging the deductions on the ground that the dealer had not produced any declaration as required under r. 27(2) of the orissa sales tax rules, 1947.
the tribunal upheld this objection and directed that fresh assessments be made.
on statement of the case, the high court answered that the assessing officer was not wrong in allowing the deductions.
on appeal by special leave).
held:(i) there is nothing in section 5 (2) (a) (ii) itself that disentitles a selling dealer to a deduction, but if the contingency provided in the proviso occurs, then the price of goods is included in the taxable turnover of the buying dealer.
(ii)the production of a declaration under r. 7(2) is not always obligatory on the part of a selling dealer when claiming the exemption.
it is open to him to claim exemption by adducing other evidence so as to bring the transaction within the scope of section 5(2)(a)(ii).
rule 27(2) must be reconciled with the section and the rule can be reconciled by treating it as directory.
but the rule must be substantially complied with in every case.
it is for the sales tax officer to be satisfied that, in fact.
the certificate of registration of the buying dealer contains the requisite statement, and if he has any doubts about it, the selling dealer must satisfy his doubts.
but if he is satisfied from other facts on the record, it is not necessary that the selling dealer should produce a declaration in the form required in r. 27(2).
before being entitled to a deduction.
member sales tax tribunal, orissa vs mls.
section lai & co. (1961) 12 s.t.c. 25, referred to.