the respondents had been detained under the preventive detention act.
on their release their employer the appellant board, commenced disciplinary proceedings and issued show cause notices why their services should not be terminated on the principal ground that they had been detained for acts prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
not being satisfied with their answers, the appellant terminated their services.
the respondents ' appeals to the chairman of the appellant board were dismissed.
thereupon, the respondents filed writ petitions in the high court, challenging the orders on the grounds that reasonable opportunity was not given to them, and that even the relevant statutory provisions had been contravened.
the petitions were dismissed, but were allowed by a division bench on appeal.
in the appeal to this court, held: if the appellants wanted to take disciplinary action against respondents on the. ground that they were guilty of misconduct, it was absolutely essential that the appellant should have held a proper enquiry instead of equating the detention to a conviction by criminal court.
at this enquiry, reasonable opportunity should have been given to the respondents to show cause and before reaching its conclusion, the appellant was bound to lead evidence against the respondents, and give them a reasonable chance to test the evidence in accordance with the rules of natural justice.
therefore, the court of appeal was right in taking the view that in the departmental enquiry which the appellant held against the respondents it was not open to the appellant to act on suspicion, and inasmuch as the appellant 's decision was based only upon the detention orders and nothing else, there could be little doubt that the said conclusion was based on suspicion and nothing more.
[459e h] case law referred to: an obligation to hold such an enquiry is also imposed on the employer by cl.
36(3) of the calcutta dock workers (regulation of employment) scheme, 1951, and cl.
45(6) of the scheme of 1956.
[459g]