the assessee firm was a 'dealer ' in madras state.
for the year 1959 60 the firm was taxed at 7% on certain sales effected to registered dealers in the punjab on the ground that the declarations taken from dealers in punjab in form 'c ' were not in accordance with r. 10(1) of the central sales tax (madras) rules, 1957.
the latter rule required ,that there must be a separate declaration in respect of each transaction whereas the declarations in the present case were in respect of several transactions each.
the appellant firm claimed that on the turnover in question it should have been assessed at one per cent only, as laid down in section 8(1) of the central sales tax act, 1056.
the claim was turned down by the sales tax authorities and the tribunal, but the high court held that r. 10(1) of the central sales tax (madras) rules, 1957 applied only to transactions of purchase by a dealer in the state of madras and not to the purchasing dealer in the state of punjab, that the madras state was incompetent to frame rules governing the conduct of the chasing dealers in the punjab, and that in any event r. 10(1) was tory and not mandatory.
the state appealed.
held: (i) ex facie r. 10(1) imposes no obligation upon a dealer in the state of madras wishing to sell goods : it applies to a clear wishing to purchase goods from another dealer.
the high court was further right in holding that under the scheme of the central sales tax act and the rules framed under that act by the state of madras the injunction against the purchasing dealers in r. 10(1) did not apply to dealers in the state of punjab.
[650b 651a] accordingly the proviso to r. 10(1) which,directs that no single declaration shall cover more than one transaction of sale except in certain cases has no application to a. purchasing dealer outside the state of madras.
nor does r. 10(2).
impose any binding obligation upon the selling dealer in madras to obtain a separate declaration form in respect of each sale transaction.
[651c f] the appellants were therefore to be taxed at the rate of one per cent and not seven per cent on the turnover in question.
(ii) a rule prescribing that a declaration by a purchasing dealer shall not contain more than one transaction can only be made by the central government under section 13(1)(d) and the state governments do not have 646 power under section 13(3) and section 13(4)(e) to make any such rule.
the situation which had arisen in this case could have been avoided if instead of each state making its rules requiring that no single declaration shall cover more than one transaction, the central government in exercise of the power under section 13(1)(d) of the act had made the rule.
[651g h; 652a b]