c was the lessee of a plot which consisted of agricultural land as well as a homestead.
the homestead was later leased to the appellants.
the respondents purchased the rights of c and brought a suit against the appellants for possession of the homestead.
the contention of the appellants in defence was that the suit had not been brought according to the provisions of the bihar tenancy act and hence was not maintainable.
the contention of the respondents was that the lease of the homestead was not an agricultural lease within the meaning of section 117 of the transfer of property act and was invalid under the provisions of the latter act.
the trial court decreed the suit.
the first appellate court however dismissed it.
in doing so it relied on earlier rulings of the patna and calcutta high courts which had held the field for over 55 years, to the effect that if the main lease is a lease for agricultural purposes all sub leases of portions of that leasehold should also be considered as agricultural leases despite the fact that a particular lease may he that of a homestead only.
the high court in further appeal departed from the view taken in the earlier cases and decided against the appellants, who came to this court.
the main question for consideration was whether the high court was justified in departing from the settled view.
held: the rule laid down in the earlier decisions was never departed from in the past.
the tenancy act was amended a number of times but yet the legislature did not think it necessary to alter or modify the said rule.
in law finality is of the utmost importance.
unless so required in public interest questions of law firmly 'settled by a long course of decisions should not ordinarily be disturbed and it is all the more so in the ease of an interpretation affecting property rights.
[471 c e] the rule that where the terms of a statute or ordinance are clear then even a long and uniform course of judicial interpretation of it may be overruled, if it is ' contrary to the clear meaning of the enactment is inapplicable to decisions on the basis of which titles and transactions must have been rounded [477 d] case law referred to.