the appellant was convicted and sentenced under r. 125(a) defence of india rules for contravening el.
4(b) of the maharashtra jwar (restriction on purchases and sale and control of movement) order, 1964, for contravening buldana district price control order, 1965; and for contravening el.
3 of the maharashtra foodgrains (declaration of stock) (second) order, 1964.
the magistrate further ordered that the maddamal (juar) before the court be confiscated by the government.
the .appellant appealed unsuccessfully to the sessions judge.
but the high court set aside the conviction and sentence under el.
3 of the maharashtra food grains (declaration of stock) order, and maintained the other convictions in an appeal to this court the appellant contended that (i) the high court having set aside the conviction under el.
3 of the maharashtra foodgrains (declaration of stocks) (second) order, 1964 the order for forfeiture could not be maintained because the maharashtra jwar (restriction on purchase 'and sale and control of movement) order,/964, and the buldana district jwar (price control) order 1965 did not contain any provision authorising the court to forfeit; and (ii) r. 141(2) of the defence of india rules, 1962 was ultra vires because it laid down a rule of evidence contrary to the law contained in section 114 of the indian evidence act.
held: (i) the order of forfeiture was illegal.
the only provision contained in the maharashtra jwar (restriction on purchase and sale and control of movement) order, 1964, is regarding forfeiture of packages covering or receptacles in which any stocks of juar are found.
this does not enable the court to order forfeiture of juar.
the buldana district juar (price control) order authorises the collector to seize stocks but does not enable the court to forfeit juar.
[274 h] (ii) r. 141(2) is within the powers conferred by section 3(1) of the defence of india act.
the fact that the rule is contrary to an existing act does not matter because section 43 of the defence of india act provides that "the provisions of this act or any rule made thereunder or any order made under any such rule shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this act or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this act." [275 f g]