the three appellants were charged with offences under sections 302 and 323 read with section 34, of the penal code and appellants 1 and 2 were charged with the individual offences under sections 302 and 323 for intentionally causing the death of a, mistaking him for v and for causing simple hurt to v. the sessions judge acquitted all the three accused under section 302 read with section 34 but convicted them under section 304 part 11 read with section 34 and sentenced them to suffer rigorous imprisonment for five years.
appellants 1 and 2 were also convicted for the offence under section 323 and appellant 3 was convicted for the offence under section 323 read with section 34.
all three were sentenced for these convictions to rigorous imprisonment for terms.
to run concurrently.
on appeal to a division bench of the high court one learned judge held, that the first appellant alone was responsible for the fatal injury on a and found him guilty under section .302, while the second and third appellants were found guilty under section 324 read with section 34.
the second learned judge was of the view that all the accused must be acquitted as he was not satisfied with, the evidence and proof of. the identity.
of the accused.
the case was then placed before , a, third learned judge under section 429 cr.
p.c. who held that the first appellant must 'be convicted under section 302 while the second and third appellants must be convicted, under section 302 read with section 34 and all of them must be sentenced to suffer rigorous prisonment for life.
the conviction of the first and second appellants under section 323 and of the third appellant under section 323 read with section 34 was upheld.
in appeal to this court it was contended (i) that the third learned judge under section 429 cr. p.c. could only,.deal with the differences between the two learned judges and not with the whole case; and (ii) that there was no comnmittee intend on within the meaning of supp i.p.c. on the part of the three appellants to kill a as he was attacked by, mistake.
held : dismissing the appeal.
(i) section on of the criminal procedure code.states "that when the judges comprising the court of appeal are equally divided in opinion the case with their opinion thereon shall be laid before another judge of the same court and such judge, after hearing,if any, as he thinks fit, shall deliver his opinion, and the judgment or order shall follow such before another judge, and, secondly, the judgment and order will follow the, opinion of the third learned judge.
it is, therefore, manifest that the third learned judge can or will deal with the whole case.
[35 d f] 32 babu and ors.
vs state of uttar pradesh, [1965] 2 s.c.r. 771; referred to.
(ii) the plea that a was mistaken for v would not take away the common intention established by a pre arranged plan and participation of all the accused in furtherance of common intention.
the act might be done by one of the several persons in furtherance of the common intention of them all without each one of them having intended to do the particular act in exactly the same way as an act might be done by one member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common intention which the other members of the unlawful assembly did not each intend to be don. .
[36 h] on the facts, it was clear that the attack took place in pursuance of a pre arranged plan.
, the attack by appellants 1 and 2 on a and the evidence showing that appellant 3 held back p during the attack all proved common intention, participation and united criminal behaviour of all; appellant 3 was therefore equally responsible and guilty with appellants 1 and 2 who had attacked a. shankarlal kachrabbhai and ors.
vs state of gujarat, ; ; referred to.
the dominant feature of section 34 is the element of participation in actions.
this participation need not in all cases be by physical presence.
common intention implies acting in concert.
there is a pre arranged plan which is proved either from conduct or from circumstances or from incriminating facts.
the principle of joint liability in the doing of a criminal act is embodied in section 34 of the indian penal code.
the existence of common intention is to be the basis of liability.
that is why the prior concert and the pre arranged plan is the foundation of common intention to establish liability and guilt.
[36 e]