from a panel of names recommended by a selection committee constituted under section 13(2) of the university of saugar act, 1946 the then chancellor of the university appointed the appellant as vice chancellor.
under ordinance no. 1 of 1970 the governor of madhya pradesh became, the chancellor of the university.
exercising his powers of review under section 43a of the act the governor, as chancellor, after notice to the appellant, set aside his appointment as vice chancellor on 'the ground that only two out of the three members of the selection committee were present when his name was included in the panel.
the appellant filed a writ petition in the.
high court.
the high court called for the correspondence between the chairman of the committee and the member who was absent at the meeting.
on the basis of a letter written by the absent member to the chairman, the high court can to the conclusion that the member had been deliberately kept out of the meeting and held that the chancellor was justified in the opinion formed by him under section 43 (a).
allowing the appeal, this court, held : (i) the high court sustained the order of the chancellor on grounds other than those relied upon by him in that order, for dismissing the writ petition in limine].
the order made by the chancellor was based entirely an the legality of the meeting where only two of the three members were present.
then was nothing to show that the corres pondence was persued by the chancellor.
further, the correspondence did not support the assumption in the high court 's order that the chairman was trying to keep out any member from the meeting.
[803 d g] (ii) if for one reason or the other one of the members of the committee, after due notice, could not attend, it did not make the meeting of the others illegal.
in such circumstances where there was no rule or regulation or any other provision for fixing quorum in the presence of the majority of the members would constitute a valid meeting and matters considered thereat could not be held to be invalid.
[803 h]