the appellant vs as convicted by the sessions judge of offences under sections 148,323 and 302 i.p.c.
the high court maintained his conviction and confirmed the sentence to death.
in appeal by special leave to this court it was contended that (i) the evidence of the eye witnesses went against the medical evidence and thereof the former was wrongly relied on by the courts below; (ii) the evidence of the three eye witnesses on which the conviction of the appellant was based was contradicted by the f.i.r. lodged by s, one of the victims of the incident and therefore should not have been relied on; and (iii) the sentence of death passed against the appellant was excessive.
dismissing the appeal, held:(i) the fact remained that an arrow was actually found ,underneath a 's dead body and according to the doctor the injury on the ,deceased could be caused by that arrow.
the mere fact, therefore that in the opinion of the doctor the arrow with the hook, unless skillfully pulled out of the wound was likely to cause more damage was not a sufficiently strong factor to reject the testimony of the three eye witnesses believed by the courts below and about whose trustworthiness there could 'be no reasonable doubt.
(ii)the f.i.r. could only discredit the testimony of s whose evidence had not been relied upon to support the appellant 's conviction.
the f.i.r. could by no means be utilised for contradicting or discrediting the other witnesses who obviously could not have any desire to spare the real culprit and to falsely implicate the appellant.
the evidence of the eye witnewes believed by the two courts appeared to be free from any serious infirmity justifying its rejection.
the case was obviously not one in which any reasonable doubt could be cast on the testimony of the eye witnesses on the mere ground that s who apparently in his attempt to save himself from the fierce indiscriminate assault by the assailants was not able carefully to see and remember as to in what manner and 'by what weapon his parents and eldest brother had been killed.
(iii)the relevant considerations in determining the sentence, broadly stated, include the motive for, and the magnitude of, the offence and the manner of its commission.
in this case the victims of the assault had given no offence to the appellant or his associates.
they were actually runni ng in panic on seeing the mob, to save themselves.
the commission of offences motivated only by the fact that the victim professes a different religious faith could not be treated with leniency.