the appellant was charged with an offence of theft or three drums of chemicals.
he was taken into police custody.
on interrogation he said : i will tell the place of deposit of the three chemical drums which i took out. " the drums were thereafter recovered from the place mentioned by him.
the trial court held that the.
information given by the appellant as a result of which the stolen drums were discovered, was admissible under section 27 of the evidence act and that under illustration (a) to s 114 evidence act, the appellant would be presumed to be the thief.
allowing the appeal to this court, ^ held: 1(a) the conditions necessary for bringing this section into operation are (1) the discovery of a fact, albeit a relevant fact, in consequence of the information received from a person accused of an offence (ii) the discovery of such fact must be deposed to, (iii) at the time of the receipt of ' the information the accused must be in police custody, and (iv) only "so much of the information" as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered is admissible.
the rest of the information has to be excluded.
[718 e] (b) the word 'distinctly means 'directly ', 'indubitably ' 'strictly ', 'unmistakably.
the word has been advisedly used to limit and define the scope of the proveable information.
the phrase "distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered" refers to that part of the information supplied by the accused which is the direct and immediate cause of the discovery.
[718 f] (c) if a fact is actually discovered in consequence of information given by the accused, it affords some guarantee of truth of that part, and that part only, of the information which was the clear, immediate and proximate cause of the discovery.
no such guarantee or assurance attaches to the rest of the statement which may be indirectly or remotely related to the fact discovered.
[718 g] palukuri kotayya and ors.
vs emperor 74 i.a. 65 and udai bhan vs state of uttar pradesh [1962] supp. 2 s.c.r 830 referred to.
in the instant case only the first part of the statement, namely "i will tell the place of deposit of the three chemical drums" was the immediate and direct cause.
of the fact discovered.
therefore this portion only was admissible under section 27.
the rest of the statement was not a distinct and a proximate cause of the discovery and had to be ruled out evidence altogether.
[719 g] 2(a) it cannot be said that the admissible portion of the information taken in conjunction with the facts discovered was sufficient to draw the presumption that the accused was the thief or receiver of stolen property knowing it to be stolen.
the drums were in a musafirkhana which was a place accessible to all and sundry.
the drums were not alleged to be lying concealed nor was the compound under the lock and key of the appellant.
[720 a b] (b) the inference under section 114(a) can never be reached unless it is a necessary inference from the circumstances of a given case which could not be explained on any other hypothesis save that of the guilt of the accused.
in the present case two alternative hypotheses are equally possible (1) that it was the accused who had himself deposited the stolen drums in the musafirkhana 716 or (ii) the accused only knew that the drums were lying at that place.
the second hypothesis was compatible with the innocence of the accused and he is entitled to the benefit of doubt.
[720 c d]