the government of gujarat issued a notification under section 4 of the land acquisition act, 1894.
the validity of the said notification was challenged by the owners of the land.
the government later issued a notification under section 6 of the land acquisition act after holding enquiry under section 5a.
the owners of the land challenged the said notification under section 6 by filing another writ petition.
thereafter the award was made by the land acquisition officer.
the government sanctioned a sum of re. 1/ towards cost of acquisition.
the acquisition was for the purpose of a cooperative housing society.
later on, the government passed a resolution in supersession of the earlier resolution and sanctioned a sum of rs. 500/ toward cost of acquisition.
the government considered section 6 notification to be illegal and invalid and cancelled the same and issued a fresh notification under section 6 in respect of the same land.
the owner of the land filed a further writ petition challenging the notification by which the earlier section 6 notification was cancelled and a fresh section 6 notification was issued.
the high court dismissed the writ petition against the first section 6 notification as infructuous.
the high court allowed the other writ petition against the second section 6 notification and quashed it on the ground that the cancellation of the first section 6 notification would in any event, tantamount to withdrawal from acquisition and secondly since section 4 notification was exhausted by the first section 6 notification no subsequent notification under section 6 of the act could thereafter be issued.
allowing the appeal by certificate ^ held: 1.
acquisition of land for cooperative housing society is for public purpose as laid down by this court in ratilal shankarbhai and ors.
vs state of gujarat a.i.r. 1970 sc 984.
[31 c] 2.
the contention that the cancellation of the first section 6 notification amounts to withdrawal from acquisition and no subsequent notification under section 6 of the act can thereafter be issued without a fresh notification under section 4 of the act cannot be countenanced in view of the decision of this court in girdhari lal amratlal shodan and ors.
vs state of gujarat reported in ; , when a notification under section 6 of the act is invalid the government may treat it as ineffective and issue in its place a fresh notification under section 6 and that nothing in section 48 of the act precludes the government from doing so.
the cancellation of the earlier notification is only a recognition of the invalidity of that notification and does not amount to withdrawal from acquisition.
[31 c d]