the petitioner was convicted u/s 302 i.p.c. and sen tenced to death by the. trial court which was confirmed by the high court.
the special leave application, to this court was dismissed.
a further petition for rehearing and a review petition thereafter having 'been dismissed, a peti tion for directions regarding demand of the case to the court of sessions for reconsideration of the sentence in the light of s.235(3) of the criminal procedure code 1973, was made, simultaneously with mercy petitions to the presi dent.
the mercy petitions to the president and the peti tion for direction to tiffs court having been rejected the petitioner 's father moved the instant review petition.
dismissing the petition the court.
held: (1) this court 's review power has repeatedly been invoked ire vain and naturally a further exercise of the same power must be justified by the compelling pressure of fresh circumstances within the limits of law.
recognised grounds such as manifest injustice induced by obvious curial error or oversight or new and important matter not reasona bly within the ken or reach of the party seeking review on the prior occasion, may warrant interference to further justice.
(2) under the indian penal code death penalty has been ruled to be constitutional.
the law having sanctioned it and this court having refused special leave against convic tion and sentence in this very case, it is a vanquished cause to argue for a vague illegality vitiating capital sentence as such.
[179 d e] gregg vs georoia, u.s. supreme court decided on july 2, 1976 held not applicable.
(3) in india under present conditions deterrence through death penalty may not be a time barred punishment in some frightful areas of barbarous murder.
illustratively the court has mentioned that the brutal features of the crime and the hapless and helpless state of the victim steel the heart of the law to impose the sterner sentence.
[180 a b] ediga annamina vs state of a.p., ; ex plained.
(4) the law is thus harsh and humane and when faced with arguments about the social invalidity of the death penalty the personal predilections of the judge must bow to the law.
the bench with all its will to break through is bound by a jurisdictional servitude.
this fetter is that if there is no legal ground for the alleged grievances the court cannot grant relief.
the court enters a province of "powerless power" and finds itself in a quandary between codified law and progressive thought.
the latter beckons, but the former binds [180 b, 177 f g] (5) hearing is obligatory at the sentencing stage under the new criminal procedure code.
the humanist principle of individualising punishment to suit the person and his cir cumstances is best served by hearing the culprit even on the nature and quantum of the penalty to be imposed.
(6) the heinousness of the crime is a relevant factor in the choice of the sentence.
the circumstances of the crime, especially social pressures which induce the crime which may be epitomised as "a just sentence in an unjust society" are another considerations.
the criminal.
not the crime.
must figure prominently in shaping the sentence where a reform of the individual, rehabilitation into society and other meas ures to prevent recurrence, are weighty factors.
sombre sentencing is the fifth act in the tragedy of a murder trial and for the judges of the supreme court, assumes a grim seriousness and poignant gravity.
the penal code does not give the judge a free hand where murder has been made out.
the choice is painfully not quite scientifical ly though limited to but two alternatives.
a c] observation: [sentencing under the indian scheme is not yet realistically forward looking nor correctionally flexi ble, but parliament in its wisdom may examine this inadequa cy].