as a result of devaluation of indian currency in june, 1966, ss. 14 & 15 of the were amended by the customs (amendment) ordinance, 1966 which was later replaced by an act with effect from july 7, 1966.
section 15(1) provides that the rate of duty, rate of exchange and tariff valuation applicable to any imported goods shall be the rate and valuation in force. . (b) in the case of goods cleared from a warehouse under section 68, on the date on which the goods were actually removed from the warehouse.
the appellant stored on december 22, 1965 in the customs warehouse, goods imported by him under a licence, and cleared them on various dates between september 1, 1966 and february 20, 1967.
under protest, they paid customs duty at the enhanced rates in accordance with the amended provisions.
later, they claimed rebate alleging that since the consignments had been received, stored and assessed to duty much before the promulgation of the ordinance, they were liable to pay duty at the rate prevailing on the date of ware housing.
their appeals and revision were unsuccessful.
in appeal to this court it was contended that the material change in section 15 being only the substitution of the words "the rate of duty, rate of exchange" for the words "the rate of duty" the customs authorities were not entitled to take into account the new rate of exchange at the appreciated value of currency in respect of the consignments stored in the warehouse prior to the coming into force of the ordinance.
dismissing the appeal, ^ held: the customs authorities were right in taking the view that the rate of duty applicable to the imported goods should be determined according to the law prevalent on the date they were actually removed from the warehouse.
section 15(1)(b) clearly requires that the rate of duty, rate of exchange and tariff valuation applicable to any imported goods shall be the rate and valuation in force on the date on which goods are actually removed from the warehouse.
under section 49 an importer may apply to the assistant collector of customs for permission to store the imported goods in a warehouse pending their clearance and he may be permitted to do so; and section 68 provides that an importer of any warehoused goods may clear them if the import duty leviable on them has been paid.
that is why clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 15 makes a reference to section 68.
[1146d, 1145h 1146c] 1143 in the instant case the goods were removed from the warehouse after the ordinance came into force on july 7, 1966.
[1146d]