the petitioner alleged that his house had been burgled and that many valuables were lost.
the police recovered the property.
eventually, charges were also framed by the trial court against two other persons who were said to be collaborators.
during the pendency of the criminal case, the asstt.
public prosecutor applied for withdrawal from prosecution under section 321, cr.
p.c. on the ground that on fresh investigation by a senior officer the alleged search and seizure were discovered to be a frame up by the concerned police officer in order to pressurise the accused to withdraw a certain civil litigation.
the court required a fuller application, the assistant public prosecutor made a fresh and more detailed petition for withdrawal which was eventually granted by the trial court, despite the petitioner 's remonstrance that the withdrawal was prompted by political influence wielded by the jeweller leading to instructions from high quarters to the assistant public prosecutor to withdraw from the case concerning that accused.
it was alleged that the assistant public prosecutor did not apply an independent mind in carrying out the said instructions.
the trial court nevertheless accepted the request of the assistant public prosecutor and directed acquittal of the jeweller, while continuing the case against the remaining two accused.
the order was unsuccessfully assailed in revision before the high court by the petitioner.
by special leave to appeal under article 136 of the constitution, it was argued on behalf of the petitioner that (i) a case which pends in court cannot be subject to a second police investigation without the judge even knowing about it, (ii) political considerations of the executive vitiate the motion for withdrawal of pending proceeding, and (iii) the district magistrate 's order to withdraw from a case communicated to the public prosecutor and carried out by him, is compliance with section 494.
dismissing the petition, ^ held: when a crime is committed, the assessment of guilt and the award of punishment or, alternatively, the discharge or acquittal of the accused are part of the criminal justice process administered by the courts of the land.
it is not the function of the executive to administer criminal justice and in our system, judges are not fungible.
[47 a] when a case is pending in a criminal court, its procedure and progress are governed by the criminal procedure code or other relevant statute.
to intercept and recall an enquiry or trial in a court, save in the manner and to the extent provided for in the law, is itself a violation of the law.
whatever needs to be done must be done in accordance with the law.
the function of administering justice, under our constitutional order, belongs to those entrusted with judicial power.
one of the few exceptions to the uninterrupted flow of the 45 court 's process is section 321, cr.
but even here it is the public prosecutor and not any executive authority, who is entrusted by the code with the power to withdraw from a prosecution, and that also with the consent of the court.
to interdict, intercept or jettison an enquiry or trial in a court, save in the manner and to the extent provided for in the code itself, is lawlessness.
the even course of criminal justice cannot be thwarted by the executive, however high the accused, however sure government feels a case is false, however, unpalatable the continuance of the prosecution to the powers that be who wish to scuttle court justice because of hubris, affection or other noble or ignoble consideration.
among the very few exception to this uninterrupted flow of the court process is section 494, cr.
even here, the public prosecutor is entrusted by the code with a limited power to withdraw from a prosecution with the court 's consent whereupon the case comes to a close.
what the law has ignited, the law alone shall extinguish.
[47 d h, 48 a] the promotion of law and order is an aspect of public justice.
grounds of public policy may call for withdrawal of a prosecution.
a prosecution discovered to be false and vexatious cannot be allowed to proceed.
but the power must be cautiously exercised, and the statutory agency to be satisfied is the public prosecutor in the first instance, not the district magistrate or other executive authority.
finally, the consent of the court is imperative.
[48 g h] there was no evidence to support the allegation of political influence.
at the same time, the district magistrate acted illegally in directing the assistant public prosecutor to withdraw.
it has been alleged that the second investigation of the case on the executive side, which led to the discovery that the earlier investigation was motivated, was vitiated by the omission to question the first informant.
that was a matter for the assistant public prosecutor to consider when deciding whether or not to withdraw from the prosecution.
it is abundantly clear that the assistant public prosecutor made an independent decision on the material before him and did not act in blind compliance with the instructions of the district magistrate.
[50 f h, 51 a] the rule of law warns off the executive authorities from the justicing process in the matter of withdrawal of cases.
since the courts were satisfied that the public prosecutor did not yield to the directive of the district magistrate but made an independent study of informing himself of the materials placed before the court and then sought permission to withdraw from the prosecution, this court declined to reverse the order of the courts below.
[51 f h] m.n. sankaranarayana nair vs p.v. bala krishna & ors. ; bansi lal vs chandan lal, air 1976 sc 370: balwant singh & ors.
vs bihar, ; , affirmed.