the petitioners (workers) challenged the legality of the sale of certain plants and equipment of the sindri fertilizer factory, whereby the highest tender submitted by respondent no. 4 was accepted by the tender committee and approved by the board of directors.
the petitioners, amongst others, contended that (i) that the decision to sell the plants and equipment of the factory was taken without calling for any report;(ii) the original tender of rs. 7.6 crores was unaccountably reduced to rs. 4.25 crores; (iii) the price of the plants and equipment, which was ultimately realised in the sale was manipulated with ulterior purposes; (iv) the decision to restrict fresh offers, in respect of the reduced equipment, to the tenderers who had submitted tenders for more than rs. 4 crores was unfair and arbitrary; (v) the said decision resulted in a huge loss to the public exchequer and (vi) the sale had jeopardised the employment of 11000 odd workers who faced retrenchment as a result of the sale.
on behalf of petitioners 3 and 4 it was further contended that the sale will deprive them of their fundamental right under article 19(1) (g) to carry on their occupation as industrial workers and that the sale is in violation of the provisions of article 14 of the constitution being arbitrary and unfair.
the respondents raised a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the writ petition on the ground that the petitioners have no locus standi and that the impugned sale did not violate any of the fundamental rights of the petitioners.
dismissing the petition: ^ held (by the court) the petitioners ' right under article 19(1)(g) to carry on their occupation as industrial workers was not affected by the sale, nor was their fundamental right, if any, under article 14 of the constitution violated.
[60 a] (per chandrachud, c.j., fazal ali & koshal, jj.) 1.
the violation of a fundamental right is the sine qua non of the exercise of the right conferred by article 32.
53 the jurisdiction conferred on the supreme court by article 32 is an important and integral part of the basic structure of the constitution because it is meaningless to confer fundamental rights without providing an effective remedy for their enforcement, if and when they are violated.
a right without a remedy is a legal conundrum of a most grotesque kind.
[59 e f] 2.
whereas the right guaranteed by article 32 can be exercised for the enforcement of fundamental rights only, the right conferred by article 226 can be exercised not only for the enforcement of fundamental rights but for any other purpose.
[59 e] 3(i).
there is no substance in the grievance that the petitioners ' right under article 19(1)(g) is violated or is in the imminent danger of being violated by the impugned sale, since not only did the sale not affect the employment of the workers employed in the factory, but those of them who were rendered surplus from time to time on account of the closure of the plants were absorbed in alternate employment in the same complex.
[60 c, f g] (ii) the right of petitioners 3 and 4 and of the other workers is not, in any manner, affected by the impugned sale.
the right to pursue a calling or to carry on an occupation is not the same thing as the right to work in a particular post under a contract of employment.
if the workers are retrenched consequent upon and on account of the sale, it will be open to them to pursue their rights and remedies under the industrial laws.
the closure of an establishment in which a workman is for the time being employed does not by itself infringe his fundamental right to carry on an occupation which is guaranteed by article 19(1)(g) of the constitution.
[60 g h, 61 a] 4.
article 19(1)(g) confers a broad and general right which is available to all persons to do work of any particular kind and of their choice.
it does not confer the right to hold a particular job or to occupy a particular post of one 's choice.
even under article 311 of the constitution, the right to continue in service falls with the abolition of the post in which the person is working.
the workers in the instant case can no more complain of the infringement of their fundamental right under article 19(1)(g) than can a government servant complain of the termination of his employment on the abolition of his post.
the choice and freedom of the workers to work as industrial workers is not affected by the sale.
the sale may at the highest affect their locum, but it does not affect their locus, to work as industrial workers.
[61 b d] 5.
in the instant case, it is quite difficult to hold that the decision to sell the plants and equipment of the factory was arbitrary, unreasonable or mala fide.
the real drive of the petition is against the decision of the board to sell the plants and equipment.
it is that decision which is stated to furnish the cause to complain of the violation of the right conferred by article 14, fairness, justness and reasonableness being its implicit assumptions.
[64 d f] 6.
as far as possible, sales of public property, when the intention is to get the best price, ought to take place publicly.
the vendors are not necessarily bound to accept the highest or any other offer, but the public at least gets the satisfaction that the government has put all its cards on the table.
one cannot exclude the possibility here that a better price might have been realised in a fresh public auction but such possibilities cannot vitiate the sale or justify the allegation of mala fides.
[64 g h, 65 a b] 54 7.
it cannot be held that the petitioners ' rights, if any, under article 14 are violated, in view of the fact that neither the decision to sell nor the sale proceedings were unreasonable, unjust or unfair.
but if and when a sale of public property is found to be vitiated by arbitrariness of mala fides, it would be necessary to consider the larger question as to who has the right to complain of it.
[65c, d e] 8.(i) the maintainability of a writ petition which is correlated to the existence and violation of a fundamental right is not always to be confused with the locus to bring a proceeding under article 32.
these two matters often mingle and coalesce with the result that it becomes difficult to consider them in water tight compartments.
the question whether a person has the locus to file a proceedings depends mostly and often on whether he possesses a legal right and that right is violated.
but, in an appropriate case, it may become necessary in the changing awareness of legal rights and social obligations to take a broader view of the question of locus to initiate a proceeding, be it under article 226 or under article 32 of the constitution.
[65 e g] (ii) the court might not have refused relief to the workers if it had found that the sale was unjust, unfair or mala fide.
if a public property is dissipated, it would require a strong argument to convince the court that representative segments of the public or at least a section of the public which is directly interested and affected would have no right to complain of the infraction of public duties and obligations.
public enterprises are owned by the people and those who run them are accountable to the people.
the accountability of the public sector to the parliament is ineffective because the parliamentary control of public enterprises is "diffuse and haphazard".
[65 g h, 66 a] (per bhagwati and krishna iyer, jj.
concurring) 1.
public law, as part of the panorama of the developmental process, must possess the specific techniques of public sector control within well defined parameters which will anathematise administration by court writ and interdict public officials handling public resources in disregard of normatice essentials and constitutional fundamentals.
in a society in which the state had thrust upon it the imperative of effectuating massive transformation of economy and social structure the demands upon the legal order to inhibit administrative evils and engineer developmental progress are enormous, though novel.
[68 e & 69 a b] 2.
it is important to underscore the vital departure from the pattern of judicial review in the anglo american legal environment because the demands of development obligated by part iv compel creative extensions to control jurisprudence in many fields, including business administrative law, contract law, penal law, fiscal law and the like.
[69 c d] 3.
judicial interference with the administration cannot be meticulous.
the court cannot usurp or abdicate, and the parameters of judicial review must be clearly defined and never exceeded.
if the directorate of a government company has acted fairly, even if it has faltered in its wisdom, the court cannot, as a super auditor, take the board of directors to task.
this function is limited to testing whether the administrative action has been fair and free from the taint of unreasonableness and has substantially complied with the norms of procedure set for it by rules of public administration.
[71 a c] 55 4.
locus standi must be liberalized to meet the challenges of the time.
ubi jus ibi remedium must be enlarged to embrace all interests of public minded citizens or organisations with serious concern for conservation of public resources and the direction and correction of public power so as to promote justice in its triune facets.
[71 d e] 5.
an officious busybody picking up a stray dispute or idle peddlar of blackmail litigation through abuse of the process of the court cannot be permitted to pollute the court instrumentality, for private objectives.
public justice is always and only at the service of public good, never the servant or janitor of private interest or personal motive.
[72 b c] 6.
public interest litigation is part of the process to participate justice and 'standing ' in civil litigation of that pattern must have liberal reception at the judicial door steps.
[74 e f] 7.
certainly, it is not part of the judicial process to examine entrepreneurial activities to ferret out flaws.
the court is least equipped for such oversights, nor, indeed, is it a function of the judges under the constitutional scheme.
the internal management, business activity or institutional operation of public bodies cannot be subjected to inspection by the court.
to do so, is incompetent and improper and, therefore, out of bounds.
nevertheless, the broad parameters of fairness in administration, bona fides in action, and the fundamental rules of reasonable management of public business, if breached will become justiciable.
[77 a c] 8.
article 43a of the constitution confers, in principle, partnership status to workers in industry and therefore technical considerations of corporate personality cannot keep out those who seek to remedy wrongs committed in the management of the public sector.
[76 g] municipal council, ratlam vs shri vardhichand and ors. ; wisconsin law review, vol.
1966: 999 at p. 1064 and m. cappelletti, rabels z (1976) 669 at 672 referred to.