the appellant a practising advocate appeared for the petitioner in a petition under the rent act.
when the case was called out for hearing, the judge noticed that the petitioner had not paid the process fee, as a result of which the summons could not be issued to the respondent.
the judge, proceeded to dismiss the petition under order ix rule 2 of the civil procedure code.
taking umbrage at the dismissal of the petition the appellant hurled his shoe at the judge which hit him on the shoulder.
the judge intending to proceed under section 228 of the penal code issued a warrant of arrest against the appellant.
the appellant evaded the warrant and successfully managed to prevent proceedings being taken by the judge for the contempt of his court.
the judge thereupon made a reference to the high court under section 15(2) of the .
before the high court the appellant did not dispute that he hurled a shoe at the judge.
he explained his conduct by saying that he acted under an irresistible impulse generated by the provocative language used by the judge.
the high court being satisfied, that the appellant was making a false allegation that the judge had used abusive language against him and that he had given an untrue version of the very genesis of the incident, held the appellant guilty of contempt of court and sentenced him to simple imprisonment for six months and a fine of rs. 200/ .
in the appeal to this court it was pleaded that the appellant evidently lost his balance and whether or not there was any justification for it, he acted under the impulse of grave passion for which he had been sufficiently punished by the publicity which the incident had received and the notoriety which he had invited for himself and as the appellant was genuinely repentant for his conduct he should be enlarged on a mere admonition.
allowing the appeal in part, ^ held: 1.
(i) the sentence of simple imprisonment for six months is reduced to a period of one month and the fine for rs. 200/ is enhanced to rs. 1000/ .
537 the fine if recovered shall be paid over to the legal aid society functioning in the state.
[540 g] (ii) the appellant is guilty of conduct which is highly unbecoming of a practising lawyer.
he hurled his shoe at the judge in order to overawe him and to bully him into accepting his submission that the case should not be dismissed under order ix rule 2 c.p.c.
the appellant did his best or worst to see that the petition was not dismissed for non payment of process fee and finding that the judge was not willing to accept his argument, he took out his shoe in show of his physical prowess.
[540 c] (iii) the appellant 's behaviour is condemned.
it is most reprehensible remembering that, as a practising lawyer he is an officer of the court.
[540 d] (iv) a long sentence of imprisonment is not imposed on the appellant since he has tendered an unconditional apology to this court and to the trial judge.
the appellant is deeply regretful and genuinely contrite.
he has suffered enough in mind and reputation and no greater purpose is going to be served by subjecting him to a long bodily suffering.
[540 e, f] 2.
(i) the argument of the appellant 's counsel in the high court that: "better part of discretion is to ignore it instead of fanning it.
it is a tussle between legal profession and judiciary", is as much to be regretted as the conduct of the appellant before the trial judge.
[541a b] (ii) the bar and the bench are an integral part of the mechanism which administers justice to the people.
a discourteous judge is like an ill tuned instrument in the setting of a court room.
but members of the bar will do well to remember that flagrant violations of professional ethics and cultured conduct will only result in the ultimate destruction of a system without which no democracy can survive.
[541 e, f]