on the surrender of the licence for the manufacture and supply of bottled arrack for the chingleput district for the financial year ]982 83 by the then existing licensee, the commissioner of prohibition and excise called for fresh applications from intending persons for the grant of licence under the tamil nadu arrack (manufacture) rules, 1981 framed under the tamil nadu prohibition act, 1937.
two firms, namely, majestic bottling company and chingleput bottlers, filed there applications and an enquiry with regard to them was held by the assistant commissioner.
the commissioner considered the report of enquiry, gave separate oral hearing to the two applicants and passed an order rejecting both the applications.
as regards majestic bottling company the commissioner held that they did not satisfy the requirements of rr. 5(a) and 5(e).
in the case of chingleput bottlers, he held that they did not satisfy the requirements of rr. 5(a), 5(c) and 5(e).
while recording the finding in respect of chingleput bottlers, the commissioner relied on a report of the collector and other material gathered by him during the course of the enquiry, which included a representation from.
majestic bottling company against the application of chingleput bottlers.
both the applicants filed petitions under article 226 of the constitution questioning the orders passed by the commissioner.
a single judge of the high court issued a writ of certiorari quashing the order of the commissioner insofar as he rejected the application of majestic bottling company and also issued a writ of mandamus ordaining the commissioner to grant the licence to majestic bottling company.
as regards chingleput bottlers, the single judge rejected their contention that the commissioner had acted in breach of rules of natural justice by his failure to furnish them the report of the collector and observed that nothing precluded them from seeking perusal of the records or from making a demand for a copy of the same.
191 both the applicants preferred appeals to the division bench.
the state government which was in possession of material adverse to the two partners of majestic bottling company did not initially file a separate counter affidavit but only did so at the conclusion of the hearing.
the division bench ruled that the order passed by the commissioner must be adjudged by the reasons stated by him and those reasons cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons provided by the state government in its belated affidavit and upheld the judgment of the single judge.
the state government and chingleput traders filed appeals against the judgment of the division bench.
it was contended on behalf of the state government that the grant of licence under r. 7 was subject to the prior approval of the state government, that if the high court was satisfied that the impugned order of the commissioner was liable to be quashed on the ground that there was an error apparent on the face of the record, the proper course for it to adopt was to issue a writ of mandamus to the commissioner to re determine the question of grant of such privilege and that the high court had no power to issue a writ of mandamus directing the commissioner to grant the licence in favour of majestic bottling company.
it was contended on behalf of chingleput bottlers that the commissioner had acted in breach of rules of natural justice in not furnishing them a copy of the report submitted by the collector and other material gathered by him during the course of the enquiry.
allowing the appeal of the state government and dismissing the appeal of chingleput bottlers.
^ held: 1.
no mandamus will lie where the duty sought to be enforced is of a discretionary nature nor will a mandamus issue to compel the performance by a public body or authority of an act contrary to law.
[198h 199a] (a) in the instant case the commissioner was under no legal duty to grant a licence to majestic bottling company till he received the prior approval of the state government under r. 7.
even assuming that the commissioner recommended the grant of a licence to them under r. 7, tho state government were under no compulsion to grant such prior approval.
the grant or refusal of such licence was entirely in the discretion of the state government.
the high court had no jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandamus to the commissioner to grant a licence to majestic bottling company contrary to the provisions of r. 7.
[199 a c] de smith: judicial review of administrative action, 4th ed.
341 and 544: h.w.r. wade: administrative law.
5th ed.
p. 638; referred to.
(b) absence of a specific plea in the nature of demurrer would not invest the high court with jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandamus ordaining the commissioner to grant a licence under r. 7 without the prior approval of the 192 state government which is a condition pre requisite for the grant of such privilege.
the high court was unduly technical in applying the rules of pleading and short circuited the whole procedure upon a wrongful assumption of its own powers.
the view taken by it is manifestly erroneous; otherwise, the statutory requirements of such prior approval of the state government under r. 7 would be rendered wholly otiose.
[201 c e] k.n. guruswamy vs stare of mysore,[1955] 1 s.c.r. 305; and p. bhooma reddy vs state of mysore, ; ; distinguished.
(c) it is not possible to accept the contention that no useful purpose would have been served by the high court remitting the matter for the reconsideration of the commissioner since it had already found that all the reasons that could be given for upholding the validity of the commissioner 's order were bad and unsustainable.
this was not a case where it could be said that there was nothing for the state government to consider while examining the question whether it should accord or refuse prior approval to the grant of licence to majestic bottling company under r. 7.
one of the relevant factors that the state government had to take into consideration was whether the partners of that company were persons who would abide by the provisions of the act and the rules.
the facts disclosed in the counter affidavit of the state government lay a serious charge against the partners of that company and it was permissible for the state government to take those facts as justification for refusal to grant prior approval under r. 7.
[202c, 203a b, e f] (d) the proper course for the high court to adopt was to issue a writ of mandamus directing the commissioner to redetermine the question after following the procedure of r. 7 and in case he came to a decision to grant the licence in favour of majestic bottling company, to refer the matter to the state government for its prior approval.
[206a b] m/s hochtief gammon vs state of orissa, [1976] 1 s.c.r. 667; padfield vs minister of agriculture, fisheries and food; , referred to.
gujarat state financial corpn.
vs m/s. lotus hotels pvt. ltd., ; distinguished.
state of tamil nadu vs c. vadiappan, [1982] 2 mad.
l.j. 30; and k. ramaswamy vs government of tamil nadu (writ appeal no. 368 of 1981); overruled.
it is a fundamental rule of law that no decision must be taken which will affect the rights of any person without first giving him an opportunity of putting forward his case.
strict adherence to the rules of natural justice is required where a public authority or body has to deal with rights.
the audi alteram partem rule may not apply to cases which relate not to rights or legal expectation but to mere privilege or licence.
an authority or body need not observe the rules of natural justice where its decision, although final, relates not to a 'right ' but to a 'privilege ' or 'licence '.
all that is emphasised in such 193 cases is that the applications for grant of privilege or licence must be considered fairly.
there are no inflexible rules of natural justice of universal application.
each case depends on its own circumstances.
rules of natural justice vary with the varying constitutions of statutory bodies and the rules prescribed by the legislature under which they have to act.
[209c d g, 213d e g] the right to know the case to be met does not necessarily involve any right to know the source of adverse information or to confront the informants, for, in some cases it would be quite proper for the authority to employ confidential sources.
[210b c] ridge vs baldwin: ; ; r. vs gaming board for great britain, ; ; r. surinder singh kanda vs government of the federation of malaya, l r. ; ; breen vs amalgamated, engineering union, ; mac innes vs onslow fane & anr., kishan chand arora vs commissioner of police, ; ; and nakkuda ali vs m.f. de section jayaratne referred to.
in the instant case there is nothing in the language of r. 7 to suggest that in refusing to grant the privilege, the commissioner is obliged to act 'judicially '.
the order refusing a licence under r. 7 is purely an administrative or executive order and is not open to appeal or revision.
there is no lis between the commissioner and the person who is refused such privilege.
the power of refusal of licence unlike the power to grant is not subject to any pre condition.
the grant of a liquor licence under r. 7 does not involve any right or expectation but it is a matter of privilege.
the commissioner was under no obligation either to disclose the sources of information or the gist of the information that he had.
all that was required was that he should act fairly and deal with the applications without any bias, and not in an arbitrary or capricious manner.
the commissioner was entitled to act on the report of the collector and also on other material gathered by him during the course of the enquiry.
it cannot be said that the commissioner in dealing with the applications did not act fairly in not furnishing a copy of the report of the collector or in taking a representation from majestic bottling company.
there is also no suggestion of any mala fides on the part of the commissioner or the state government.
[213g h, 214a b, c e, g h]