in exorcise of the powers conferred by section 29 of the tamil nadu buildings (lease and rent control) act, 1960 (tamil nadu act 18 of 1960), the government of tamil nadu by a notification no. ii (2) h. o. 6060/76 dated 21 t november, 1976 exempted the buildings owned, inter alia by all the co operative societies from all the provisions of the said act.
since the protection available to the petitioners, who wore tenants in a building belonging to respondent no. 2, an apex society registered under the tamil nadu co operative societies act, 1961 and covered by the said notification.
had been withdrawn and since the petitioners were facing the imminent prospect of suffering eviction decrees against them, they filed the present writ petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the impugned notification on the ground that the same was violative of article 14 of the constitution.
the petitioners contended that treating the buildings owned by all the co operative societies in the state of tamil nadu as falling into one group while exercising the power under sec.
29 of the act will have to be regarded as a rational classification based on an intelligible differentia but the differentia on which this classification was based had no excuse with the object of curbing the two evils of rack renting and unreasonable eviction for which the power to grant exemption had been conferred upon the state government under sec.
29 of the act and since the impugned notification did not satisfy be test of nexus the exemption granted to all such buildings could not be sustained and will have to be regarded as discriminatory and violative of article 14.
in other words counsel urged that there was and is up warrant of any presumption that co operative societies qua landlords will not indulge in rack renting or will not unreasonably evict tenants; in fact they would not be different from other private landlords so far as the two evils sought to be curbed by the act are concerned and therefore counsel urged that the exemption granted could not be said to be in conformity with the guidance afforded by the scheme and the previsions of the act.
417 dismissing the petitions, ^ held: it is true that under sec.
4 of the tamil nadu co operative societies act the very object of every co operative society registered thereunder is the promotion of economic interests of its members and sec.
62 of the act provides for payment of dividends on shares to its members as also for payment of bonus to its members and paid employees.
but these aspects of a co operative society do not mean that it could be likened to any other body undertaking similar activities on commercial lines and to do so would be to miss the very basis on which the co operative movement was launched and propagated and has been making progress in the country during the last several decades.
indisputably, co operative societies which carry on their activities in various fields do so for the purpose of attaining the social and economic welfare of a large section of the people belonging to the middle class and the rural class by encouraging thrift, self help and mutual aid amongst them, especially by eliminating the middle man.
but the object of promoting the economic interrupts of the members has to be achieved by following co operative principles where the profit motive will be restricted to a reasonable level unlike other commercial bodies where sky is the limit so far as their desire to earn profits is concerned.
sections 4 and 62 of the act and rule 46 of the rules make it clear that in the matter of distribution of profits by way of payment of dividend to members and payment of bonus to members as well as paid employees restrictions have been placed by law and the same is maintained at a reasonable level and considerable portion of the net profits is apportioned and required to be carried to various kinds of funds, like co operative development fund, co operative education fund, reserve fund etc.
in fact it is such statutory appropriations and restrictions on payment of dividends and bonus which differentiates co operative societies from other bodies undertaking similar activities on commercial lines and therefore, the buildings belonging to such co operative societies are substantially different from the buildings owned by private landlords.
further it has to be appreciated that these statutory provisions are applicable to all types of co operative societies specified in rule 14 whatever be their nature or functions.
the profit element being maintained at a reasonable level by provisions of law in all types of co operative societies there is every justification for the assumption that no co operative society will indulge in rack renting or unreasonable eviction.
in this view of the matter if the state government came to the conclusion that in the case of co operative societies there being no apprehension that they would indulge in either of these two evils exemption from the provisions of the tamil nadu act no. 18 of 1960 should be granted in favour of buildings belonging to such co operative societies it will have to be regarded is a legitimate exercise of the power conferred on it under sec.
29 of the act the same being in conformity with the guidance afforded by the preamble and provisions of the act in that behalf.
[422d 5; 424c g] besides, on the factual side of the issue the facts and circumstances put forward by the state government in its counter affidavit which have gone unchallenged clearly show that the differentia on the basis of which the classification was made had a clear nexus with the object with which the power to grant exemption has been conferred upon the state and therefore the impugned notification will have to be regarded as valid.
[425e f] 418