the landlord appellant running a girls ' school.
filed an eviction suit against the tenant, the predecessor in interest of the respondent, on the ground that it needed additional accommodation for the school.
the trial judge as well as the appellate court ordered eviction under section 12(i)(f) of the madhya pradesh accommodation control act, 1961 holding that the object of the appellant society was to get the building back for expansion of its activities and had proved the same.
the high court, however, in second appeal examined the sanctioned plan, held that the landlord 's claim for eviction was on the ground of reconstruction, and the series of shops shown in the plan were meant to be let out to tenants and set aside the order of eviction passed by the two courts below.
allowing the appeal to this court, ^ held: l(i).
the order of the high court is set aside.
the orders of the additional district judge and the trial court are restored with the modification that in case any part of the building is used for shop or let out as shop, the first option should be given to the respondents and of that the building must be constructed on the basis of the appended sanctioned plan.
[517g; e] 1(ii).
the high court fell into error in misconstruing the plan ext.
4 and in holding that the landlord 's claim for eviction was on the ground of reconstruction.
the high court went on to examine whether section 12(h) of the act had been complied with.
there was no such necessity 515 in view of the facts as found by the two courts below.
in any case, in second appeal the high court should not have interfered with such a question of fact.
[517b c] 2.
the case of the landlord appellant is clearly covered by s.12(1)(f) of the madhya pradesh accommodation control act, 1961.
the mere fact that the landlord intended to make alterations in the house either on account of his sweet will or on account of absolute necessity in view of the condition of the house, would not affect the question of his requiring the house bona fide and reasonably for his occupation, when he had proved his need for occupying the house.
[516e f] ramniklal pitambardas mehta vs inderadaman amratlal sheth [1964] 8 scr p.1, followed.