the appellants were alleged to have conspired to kill the collector cure district magistrate.
the latter died in a bomb attack by the first accused appellant.
he was caught red handed and when given a beating by eye witnesses he readily confessed to his guilt, but gave out that he had committed the ghastly murder at the behest of the second appellant, who was at that material time detained in jail.
he made a similar confession before the magistrate.
they were both convicted under s.302 read with section 120b of the indian penal code and sentenced to death.
their sentence was confirmed by the high court.
disposing of the appeals, this court, held: 1.
there was direct evidence of first appellant 's involvement in the crime and he had also confessed to his guilt.
there was, therefore, no justification to take a view different from what has been said about him by the high court.
his conviction as also sentence shall stand.
[408f g] 2.1 the prosecution has failed to establish by circum stantial evidence the complicity of the second appellant in the conspiracy to kill the collector through the first accused.
he was, therefore, entitled to the benefit of doubt and his conviction was not sustainable.
[413d] 406 2.2 where the prosecution relies upon circumstantial evidence to support the charge of conspiracy, a clear link has to be established and the chain has to be complete, otherwise it would indeed be hazardous to accept a part of the link as the complete one.
on the basis of such incom plete circumstantial evidence, the allegation of conspiracy cannot be accepted.
[413c] 3.1 the confession of a co accused is not substantive evidence against other co accused persons in the same trial but could only be used for lending reassurance if there be any other substantive evidence to be utilised or acted upon.
[411c] kashmira singh vs state of madhya pradesh, ; and hari chand kurmi & anr.
vs state of bihar, ; , referred to. 3.2 the judicial confession of the main accused in the instant case was exculpatory in nature and, therefore, would not be admissible against the co accused.
it has, to be kept out of consideration.
[410a b] 3.3 the extra judicial confession of the main accused relates to the point of time contemporaneous to the inci dent.
there was evidence that he was beaten up badly after being apprehended by the mob soon after the bomb burst.
several prosecution witnesses have spoken about his confes sion before them.
there was clear material that he was manhandled.
[410b c] 3.4 in his statement recorded under s.164 of the code on 13.4.1983, the main accused denied to have made any state ment following his apprehension.
even accepting the prosecu tion story that he made this statement, he appears to have made the statement following assault on him.
even if it is accepted that he has made the statements as alleged, the same cannot be utilised against the co accused.
obviously when the accused was beaten up, he must have been anxious to ensure that the assault stopped.
his plea in such a situa tion would neither be voluntary nor natural.
it would not be proper to rely upon the same for any purpose.
[410h; 411a b] 4.
the 2nd appellant might have had grudge against the collector for his detention as also for the demolition of his ashram.
that must have been the common reaction of all the ashramites, including the co accused.
this could not, therefore, be a feature to supply motive for establishing conspiracy.
[412c d] 407 5.1 several witnesses were examined to show that the main accused was very close to the co accused.
but the source of their knowledge appeared to be statement of the main accused and independently they had no personal knowl edge of the fact.
[412b c] 5.2 p.w.4, who testified that during his interview with his wife in the same jail, he had overheard the alleged conversation between the accused and the 2nd appellant, was himself a convict in three cases of murder.
his wife, who was a material witness has not been examined in the case.
adverse inference, has to be drawn against the prosecution for not doing so.
[413a b] 5.3 this type of evidence, even if accepted, does not establish conspiracy because the accused being a follower of the 2nd appellant, a religious preacher, he was likely in the usual course to meet the latter and the fact that they were meeting at regular intervals by itself would not estab lish conspiracy.
[412f]