chapter vi of the contain provisions relating to "control of transport vehicles".
section 68 confers the power on the state government to make rules for the purpose of the said chapter.
clause (r) of sub section (2) of section 68 of the act specifically con fers on the state government without prejudice to the gener ally of the power conferred under sub section (1) of section 68 of the act the power to frame rules regarding "prohibit ing the picking up or setting down of passengers by stage or contract carriages at specified places or in specified areas or at places other than duly notified stands or halting places and requiring the driver of a stage carriage to stop and remain stationary for a reasonable time when so required by a passenger desiring to board or alight from the vehicle at a notified halting place.
" section 76 empowers the state government or any authority authorised in this behalf by the state government to determine parking places and halting stations.
clause (e) of sub section (2) of section 91 of the act confers the power on the state government specifically to make rules regarding the maintenance and management of parking places and stands and the fees, if any, which may be charged for their use.
rule 93 of the uttar pradesh motor vehicles rules, 1940 similarly authorises the district magistrate to specify places within the limits of any munic ipality, notified area, town area or cantonment or within such other limits as he may define where alone public serv ice vehicles or any specified class or classes of public service vehicles and/or goods vehicles may stand indefinite ly or for such period as may be specified or public service vehicles may stop for a longer time than is necessary for the taking up and setting down of passengers.
715 the district magistrate, mathura by his order dated 22.5.1986 declared and determined plot nos. 701 and 702 in the town area, baldev (mathura) as a bus stand/halting place of baldev, where the stage carriages were directed to stand for the purpose of allowing the passengers of baldev to get into and to get down from the stage carriages.
accordingly, the town area committee gave a contract to a private con tractor to collect the necessary fees payable by the bus operators for making use of the area in question which was within its jurisdiction for stopping their buses in accord ance with the order passed by the district magistrate.
the appellant, a person providing transport service in the district of mathura, challenged the said order dated may 22, 1986 and the order of the town area committee the levy fees by filing a civil writ petition no. 501 of 1986 before the high court of allahabad.
the writ petition was dismissed by the high court on 8.9.1986.
hence the appeal by special leave.
allowing the appeal.
the court, held: rule 93 of u.p. motor vehicles rules, 1940 only authorises the district magistrate to exercise the powers under section 76 of the which is confined to the question of determination of parking places and halting places which are not the same as bus stands which can only be notified by the regional transport author ity under section 68(2)(r) of the act.
[721b] in the instant case no order has been passed by the regional transport authority, mathura to determine the area in question as a bus stand and the district megistrate cannot be equated with the regional transport authority constituted under the act.
therefore, the order dated 22.5.1986 passed by the district magistrate and also the letter dated 10.10.1986 written by the executive officer of town area committee, baldev to the president of the union requiring the bus operators to stop their buses at the bus stand and to start from there and to permit the passengers to get into and to get out of their buses at that bus stand is not in order.
[721c e] t.p. ibrahim vs regional transport authority, tan/ore, ; ; municipal board, puskar vs state transport authority, rajasthan and ors., [1903] supp.
2 scr 373; and municipal council, bhopal vs sindhi sahiti multipurpose transport co op.
society ltd. & anr. ; , followed.