the high court has ample power under section 439, read with section 435, of the code of criminal procedure to revise an order of discharge made by a presidency magistrate in a commitment proceeding, and to direct the committal of the accused person to the court of session.
section 439 of the code contemplates all the powers of an appellate court under section 423.
of the code, except the power to convert a finding of acquittal into one of conviction and that such powers may be exercised in the case of any proceeding.
there is, therefore, no basis for the proposition that the high court can revise only such orders as are made appealable by the code.
malik pratap singh vs khan mahomed, cal. 994 and emperor vs varjivandas alias kalidas bhaidas, (19o2) i.l.r. , referred to.
the words "sufficient grounds" occurring in ss. 209, 210 and 213 of the code of criminal procedure do not mean sufficient grounds for the purpose of conviction but mean such evidence as would be sufficient to put the accused upon trial by the jury.
in each case, therefore, the committing magistrate has to be satisfied whether or not a prima facie case has been made out against the accused person by reasonably reliable evidence.
where he is satisfied that it has been, he has to commit the accused to the court of session and it is for the jury to decide which of the conflicting versions it should accept and either to convict or acquit him.
queen empress vs namdev satvaji, bom.
372 approved.
case law reviewed.
consequently, in a case where a committing presidency magistrate, on a full and elaborate consideration of a large volume of evidence, both oral and documentary, adduced both by the prosecution and the defence came to the conclusion that no criminal court would convict the accused persons on such evidence and discharged them and the hi court in exercise of its powers 619 under section 439 of the code of criminal procedure set aside the order of discharge and directed the committal of the accused persons to the court of session on charges under section 409 and s 409 read with section 109 of the indian penal code and it could not be said that the evidence had not made out a prima facie case against the accused persons or that it could not be reasonably relied on.
held, that it was preeminently a case for committal to the court of session, the order of discharge made by the presidency magistrate was highly improper and the high court 's order must be affirmed.
held further, that the appellants could not be allowed to make a grievance of the inordinate delay in bringing them to trial, for which they themselves were primarily responsible, and such delay could be no ground for not holding the trial at all.