this court rendered a judgment in this case on 31.1.1989 confirming the conviction of both the respondents and reduc ing the sentence of imprisonment from 10 years to 5 years by invoking the proviso to section 376(2) i.p.c.
the petitioner state has sought review of the said judgment.
dismissing the review petitions, this court, held: 1.
as per order xl rule 1 of supreme court rules, 1966, review in criminal proceedings is limited to errors apparent on the face of record.
in the instant case, there is no error apparent on the face of the record necessitating review of the judgment.
[498f] p.n. eswara iyer and ors.
vs registrar, supreme court of india, ; sow chandra kanta and anr.
vs sheikh habib; , ; sheonandan paswan vs state of bihar and ors., , relied on.
the very confirmation of the conviction accepting the sole testimony of the victim, rejecting the arguments of the defence counsel, is itself a clear indication that this court was of the view that the character or reputation of the victim has no bearing or relevance either in the matter of adjudging the guilt of the accused or imposing punishment 497 under section 376 i.p.c.
such factors are wholly alien to the very scope and object of section 376 and can never serve either as mitigating or extenuating circumstances for impos ing the sub minimum sentence with the aid of the proviso to section 376(2) of the i.p.c. [499g h] 3.
this court neither characterised the victim, as a woman of questionable character and easy virtue nor made any reference to her character or reputation in any part of the judgment but used the expression "conduct" in the lexigraph ical meaning for the limited purpose of showing as to how she had behaved or conducted herself in not telling any one for about 5 days about the sexual assault perpetrated on her till she was examined on 28.3.1984 by the sub inspector of police.
the word "conduct" was not used with reference to the character or reputation of the victim.
[500b c] 4.
this court is second to none in upholding the decency and dignity of womanhood and this court has not expressed any view in the judgment that character, reputation or status of a raped victim is a relevant factor for considera tion by the court while awarding the sentence to a rapist.
[500d]