the respondent was a member of a political party.
conse quent upon the defeat of the party in mayoral elections held in march, 1989, the party felt that there was cross voting and there were traitors among them and the respondent made a declaration that such traitors would not be spared.
thereaf ter the respondent was arrested in connection with the murder of one of the corporators.
he was accused of having committed offence under section 3(1) of the terrorist and disruptive activities (prevention) act, 1987, besides of fences punishable under sections 148, 149, 120 b and 302 of the indian penal code.
the designated court released the respondent on bail while the investigation was pending.
this appeal by the state is against the order of the designated court.
allowing the appeal, this court, held: 1.
sub section (8) of section 20 of the act clear ly provides that unless the court is satisfied for the reasons to be recorded that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent is not involved in disruptive activities bail shall ordinarily be refused.
even under the provisions of section 437 and 438 of the code of ' criminal procedure, the powers of the sessions judge are not unfet tered.
[75f] 2.
where the offence is of serious nature the court has to decide the question of grant of bail in the light of such considerations as the nature and seriousness of offence, character of the evidence, circums 74 tances which are peculiar to the accused, a reasonable possibility of presence of the accused not being secured at the trial and the reasonable apprehension of witness being tampered with, the larger interest of the public or such similar other consideration.
[76b c] 3.
in the instant case, the salient principles in grant ing bail in grave crimes have not been taken note of.
the court was obsessed by the fact that the respondent was associated with a political party and was oblivious of the nature of the allegations made against him and the relevant materials indicating that the respondent had been making utterances inciting violence.
[76d] 4.
this court would not ordinarily interfere with the discretion of the lower court in granting or refusing bail but in cases where bail has been granted on irrelevant considerations, such as the status or influence of the person accused and regardless of the nature of the accusa tion and relevancy of materials on record, this court would not hesitate to interfere for the ends of justice.
[75g h; 76a]