the appellants were the claimants land owners, whose lands were acquired for establishing a residential cum commercial complex.
the land acquisition collector belting the land in three parts awarded compensation for block `a ' at the rate of rs. 4.13 per sq.yd.; for block `b ' at the rate of rs. 2.43 per sq.yd.
and for block `c ' at rs. 1.65 per sq.
in first appeal the high court was persuaded to confine to belting `a ' & `b '.
the high court fixed compensation at the rate of rs. 23 per sq.yd.
for belt `a ' and for belt `b ' rs. 16 per sq.yd.
the claimants by special leave filed present appeals for enhancement contending that the acquired land comprises of a large area, situated alongside the g.t. road in a strip approximately 3 kms.
in length on the other side of which was the railway line; that the belting had been done in a haphazard way; that the land having been acquired for building purposes, its quality as agricultural land should not have weighed; and compensation should have been assessed uniformally.
dismissing the appeals, this court, held: 1.
the rate of rs. 42 per sq.yd. is claimed on the basis that a part of land measuring about 125 sq.yd. which found part of the acquired land, was, before the acquisition, purchased by a purchaser at the rate of rs. 42 per sq.
and that was an indication that the land acquired would have fetched rs. 42 per sq.yd.
[3e] 2.
the high court had rejected the contention of the appellants taking the twin view that firstly the land involved was small in measure and secondly it was fully constructed having a house and a godown facing the g.t. road itself.
this reasoning is sound.
[3f] 3.
the judgement in which rs. 42 had been awarded in another 2 case has not been brought on record as a piece of evidence to be relied upon by the claimants, and no permission has been sought to adduce additional evidence.
the said judgement cannot therefore be used as a precedent even to persuade this court to take the view that the rate should be rs. 42 per sq.yd.
for belt `a ' if not uniformally.
all these factors cumulatively lead to the view that appellants have no case for enhancement and have been adequately compensated for the land acquired.
[3h; & a b]