on the death of a railway employee, dispute arose among his wife, sons, daughters and brother for the family pension, gratuity and other emoluments.
the brother of the deceased employee filed a civil suit in the court of sub judge for a permanent injunction restraining the appellants. the wife, sons and daughter from claiming or receiving any monetary benefits from the railway administration, contending that by a will dated 9.9.1984 of the deceased employee, he was entitled to receive the benefits to the deceased employee 's widow.
the railway authority did not pay any amount, as an injunction had been issued by the civil court.
the appellants there upon made an application before the central administrative tribunal for a direction for the release of the amounts on the grounds that the will was a forged one, and the beneficiary was not entitled to receive pensionary benefits.
the tribunal held that since the dispute related to rival claims based on title arising from relationship, it had no jurisdiction to decide the same.
it also directed transfer of the case to the civil court for trial.
in the appeal to this court on the question was: whether family pension payable under the service rules could be bequeathed by means of a will.
allowing the appeal, this court, held: 1.
family pension rules, 1964 provided for the sanction of family pension to the survivors of a railway employee.
rule 801 provides that family pension shall be granted to the widow/widower and where there is no widow/widower, to the minor children of a railway servant, who may have died while in service.
under the rules, son of 283 the deceased is entitled to family pension until he attains the age of 25 years, an unmarried daughter is also entitled to family pension till she attains the age of 25 years or gets married, whichever is earlier.
the rules do not provide for payment of family pension to brother or any other family member or relation of the deceased railway employee.
the family pension scheme under the rules is designed to provide relief to the widow and children by way of compensation for the untimely death of the deceased employee.
the rules do not provide for any nomination with regard to family pension, instead the rules designate the persons who are entitled to receive the family pension.
thus, no other person except those designated under the rules are entitled to receive family pension.
[285e h] 2.
the family pension scheme confers monetary benefit on the wife and children of the deceased railway employee, but the employee has no title to it.
the employee has no control over the family pension as he is not required to make any contribution to it.
the family pension scheme is in the nature of welfare scheme framed by the railway administration to provide relief to the widow and minor children of the deceased employee.
[285h 286b] 3.
since, the rules do not provide for nomination of any person by the deceased employee during his life time for the payment of family pension, he has no title to the same.
therefore, it does not form part of his estate enabling him to dispose of the same by testamentary dis position.
[286b c] [the appellant no. 1, widow of the deceased railway employee is entitled to receive the family pension, notwithstanding the will alleged to have been executed by the deceased on 9.9.1984 in favour of his brother.
as regards appellant nos. 2 to 6 are concerned, they are not minors, therefore, under the rules they are not entitled to any family pension.
[286f h] the railway administration is free to evict them in accordance with the rules, only after arrears of family pension are paid to the widow.] [287b c] jodh singh v. union of india & anr., [1980] 4 s.c.c. 306, followed.