respondent no. 1 a private limited company, was sanctioned a loan of rs.30 lakh by the appellant corporation for the setting up of a factory.
to secure this loan a mortgage deed of certain properties was executed by the company and respondents 2 to 4 as its directors had executed a personal surety bond without any security for its repayment.
after obtaining a part of the sanctioned loan, which was to be given in phases, the company became disinterested in availing of the balance amount.
consequently the corporation demanded back the amount ahead taken together with interest and on the company 's failure to do so, it took over the industrial concern under section 29 of the act and initiated steps to realise its dues by putting the property to sale.
having failed to recover the amount as no adequate offer was forthcoming despite repeated advertisements, it filed a petition before the bombay high court under sections 31 and 32 of the act both against the company as well as its directors sureties praying for a decree in the sum of rs. 15,87,391.20 to be passed against them jointly and severally.
the respondents contested the petition contending (a) that a petition under sections 31 and 32 of the act could be filed only before the city civil court and the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain it, (b) that no money decree can be passed under sections 31 and 32 of the act, and (c) that the provision in the act relating to enforcement of the 481 liablity of surety were ultra vires of article 149 of the constitution.
the learned single judge relying on an earlier decision of the bombay high court reported in 1987 mah.
l.j 243 held that the high court had to entertain the petition but on merits took the view that no money decree could be passed under sections 31 and 32 even against the sureties and since in the instant case the sureties had not given any security except their personal guarantee, the same could be enforced only in the ordinary course and not under the special machinery provided under the act.
in view of his findings on the first two pleas no arguments were entertained on the last plea and accordingly the petition was dismissed.
the division bench while dismissing the appeal not only upheld the finding of the single judge on merits but also overruled the decision reported in and held that the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain a petition under sections 31 and 32 of the act.
the corporation came up in appeal before this court by special leave against this decision of the high court of bombay.
the impugned judgement was assailed by the appellant corporation both on merites and on the plea of juridiction.
the respondents in reply asserted that the findings of the high court on both pleas were unassailable.
allowing the appeal, by a majority decision, held: a.
by the full court (i)the extent of the liability stated in the application as contemplated by sub section (2) of section 31 of the act would represent the value of the claim of the corporation and if since value is upto rupees fifty thousand, the application would lie in the city city court and if it is more than that amount it would lie in the high court.
this interpretation would give meaning and relevance to the words "having jurisdiction" used in sub section (11) of section 32.
a different interpretation would render superfluous or otiose not only the words "having jurisdiction" but also the words and in the absence such court, by the high court, occurring in the said sub section (11) inasmuch as in a presidency town, in terms of territorial jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the city civil court and of the high court is co terminus [495d f] (ii) in the instant case the extent of liability of the surety being more than rupees fifty thousand, the application could only have been filed and was rightly filed in the high court and the finding in the 482 judgment under appeal to the contrary for holding that the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain the application cannot be sustained.
[497a] b. per n.
d. ojha, j. for himself and ranganathan, j. (iii) there can be no doubt that the term, "any surety" used in clause (aa) in sub section (1) of section 31 of the act, will include not only a surety who has given some security but also one who has given only a personal guarantee.
in our opinion, in a case where the relief claimed in the application under section 31(1) of the act is for enforcing the liability of a surety who has given only a personal guarantee, sub section 4(a) of section 32 where no cause is shown and clause (da) of sub section (7) where cause is shown, contemplate cutting across and dispensing with the provisions of the code of civil procedure from the stage of filing a suit to the stage of obtaining a decree against the surety, the passing of an order which can straightaway be executed as if it were a decree against the surety which may be passed in the event of suit being filed.
[498f, 499e] (iv) in the absence of any provision such as sub section (8) of section 32 of the act applying the manner provided in the code for the execution of a decree against a surety only "as far as practicable" the entire provision contained in this behalf in the code shall be applicable.
this would be so in view of the use of the expression "any other law for the time being applicable to an industrial concern" used in section 46b of the act.
that the code is applicable to an industrial concern also is not in dispute and cannot be doubted.
[50oh 501a] (v) even in the absence of section 46b of the act the provisions of the code would have been attracted in the matter of enforcing the liability of a surety in view of the decision of this court in national sewing thread co. ltd. vs james chadwick & bros. ltd., ; inasmuch as the district judge while exercising jurisdiction under sections 31 and 32 of the act is not a persona designate but a court of ordinary civil jurisdiction.
[501b d] (per section c. agrawal, j. dissenting.) it cannot be comprehended that while making provision which would enable passing of an order in the nature of a money decree against a surety on an application under section 31 of the act, parliament would have refrained from making a corresponding provision prescribing the procedure for carrying into effect such an order.
it 483 appears to be more in consonance with the scheme of the act and the object underlying sections 31 and 32 that by introducing the amendments in sections 31 and 32 of the act the parliament intended to place the surety on the same footing as the principal debtor so as to enable the financial corporation to obtain relief against the properties of the principal debtor as well as the surety [515e g] if considered in this perspective, the expression "enforcing the liability of any surety" in clause (aa) of section 31(1) would mean enforcing the liability of a surety in the same manner as the liability of principal debtor is enforced, by attachment and sale of property keeping in view that the proceedings under sections 31 and 32 of the act are akin to an application for attachment of property in execution of a decree at a stage posterior to the passing of the decree.
the relief of a money decree sought against the sureties respondents 2 to 4 was not maintainable and the said relief could not be granted to the appellant in proceedings under section 31 of the act.
as a result, the petition filed by the appellant must be dismissed and for the same reason this appeal must fail.
[515g 516a, 516d e] munnalal gupta vs uttar pradesh financial corporation & anr.
,a.i.r. 1975 allahabad 416; thressiamma varghese vs k. section f. corporation, a.i.r. 1986 kerala 222; maharashtra state financial corporation vs hindtex engineers pvt. ltd., ; kayastha training & banking corporation ltd vs sat narain singh, all. 433; m. k. ranganathan & anr.
vs government of madras & ors.
,[1955] 2 s.c.r. 374; the central talkies ltd., kanpur vs dwarka prasad, ; , referred to.
maganlal v. mis.
jaiswal industries, neemach & ors., ; ; m/s. everest industrial corporation & ors.
vs gujarat state financial corporation, [1987] 3s.c.c. 597; parkash playing cards manufacturing co. vs delhi financial corporation, ; gujarat state financial corporation v. natson manufacturing co. pvt. ltd. & ors., , distinguished.
west bengal financial corporation vs gluco series pvt. ltd.
,a.i.r. , approved.