when an employee is due for promotion, increment etc.
but disciplinary/criminal proceedings are pending against him at the relevant time, the findings of his entitlement to such benefit are kept in a sealed cover to be opened after the proceedings in question are over.
according to this procedure, while the findings are kept in the sealed cover, the vacancy which might have gone to the officer concerned is filled only on an officiating basis.
if on the conclusion of the departmental/court pro ceedings, the officer concerned is completely exonerated, and where he is under suspension it is also held that the suspension was wholly unjustified, the sealed, cover is opened and the recommendations of the dpc are acted upon.
if the officer could have been promoted earlier, he is promoted to the post which is idled on an 791 officiating basis, the officiating arrangement being termi nated.
on his promotion, the officer gets the benefit of seniority and fixation of pay on a notional basis with reference to the date on which he would have been promoted in the normal course, but for the .pending disciplinary/court proceedings.
however, no arrears of salary.
are paid in respect of the period prior to the date of actual promotion.
sometimes the cases in the courts or the departmental proceedings take unduly long time to come to a conclusion and the officers undergo considerable hardship, even where it was not intended to deprive.
them of promotion for such a long time.
the government in consultation with the union public service commission examined how the hardship caused to the government servant in such circumstances could be mitigated and laid down certain procedures by an office memorandum no. 2201111179 eatt.
(a) dated january 30, 1982.
in interpreting the memorandum as to what is the date from which it can be said that disciplinary/criminal pro ceedings are pending against an employee; as to what would be the course to be adopted when the employee is held guilty in such proceedings if the guilt merits punishment other than that of dismissal; and as to what benefits an employee who is completely or partially exonerated is entitled to and from which date, different benches of the central adminis trative tribunal recorded their findings and while doing so, the full bench of the tribunal struck down two provisions of the said memorandum dated january 30, 1982, which related to a prohibiton against acting upon the findings contained in the sealed cover in case the officer was imposed penalty as a result of disciplinary proceedings or found guilty in the court proceedings against him and regarding arrears of pay for the period of notional promotion.
aggrieved by the decisions of the various benches of the tribunal, the union of india and other authorities preferred the present appeals and special leave petitions.
disposing of them matters, this court, held: 1.
the sealed cover procedure is to be resorted to only after the charge memo/charge sheet is issued.
the pendency of preliminary investigation prior to that stage will not be sufficient to enable the authorities to adopt the sealed cover procedure.
the preliminary investigations take an inordinately long time and particularly when they are initiated at the instance of the interested persons, they are kept 792 pending deliberately.
many times they never result in the issue of any charge memo/charge sheet.
if the allegations are serious and the authorities are keen in investigating them ordinarily it should not take much time to collect the relevant evidence and finalise the charges.
if the charges are that serious, the authorities have the power to suspend the employees under the relevant rules, and the suspension by itself permits a resort to the sealed cover procedure.
the authorities thus are not without a remedy.
[799f h; 800a b] 2.
when an employee is completely exonerated meaning thereby that he is not found blame worthy in the least and is not visited with the penalty even of censure, he has to be given the benefit of the salary .of the higher post along with the other benefits from the date on which he would have normally been promoted but for the disciplinary/criminal proceedings.
however, there may be cases.
where the proceed ings, whether disciplinary or criminal, are delayed at the instance of the employee or the clearance in the discipli nary proceedings or acquittal in the criminal proceedings is with benefit of doubt or on account of nonavailability of evidence due to the acts attributable to the employee etc.
in such circumstances, the concerned authorities must be vested with the power to decide whether the employee at all deserves any salary for the intervening period and if he does, the extent to which he deserves it.
being com plex, it is not possible to anticipate and enumerate exhaus tively all the circumstances under which such consideration may become necessary.
to ignore, however, such circumstances when they exist and lay down an inflexible rule that in every case when an employee is exonerated in disciplinary/criminal proceedings he should be entitled to all salary lot the intervening period is to undermine disci pline in the administration and jeopardise public interests.
the tribunal was not right in holding that to deny the salary to an employee would in all circumstances be illegal.
[802g h; 803a d] 3.
the normal rule of "no work no pay" is not applicable to cases where the employee although he is willing to work is kept away from work by the authorities for no fault of his.
this is not a case where the employee remains away from work for his own ' reasons, although the work is offered to him.
it is for this reason that f.r. 17(1).will also be inapplicable to such cases. [802f g] 4.
the tribunal erred in holding that when an officer is found guilty in the discharge of his duties, an imposition of penalty is all that is necessary to improve his conduct and to enforce discipline and ensure purity in the adminis tration.
in the first instance, the penalty short of 793 dismissal will vary from reduction in rank to censure.
the tribunal has not intended that the promotion should be given to the officer from the original date even when the penalty imparted is of reduction in rank.
on principle, the officer cannot be rewarded by promotion as a matter of course even if the penalty is other than that of reduction in rank.
[804f g] 5.
an employee has no right to promotion.
he has only a right to be considered for promotion.
the promotion to a post and more so, to a selection post, depends upon several circumstances.
to qualify for promotion, the least that is expected of an employee is to have an unblemished record.
that is the minimum expected to ensure a clean and efficient administration and to protect the public interests.
an employee found guilty of misconduct cannot be placed on par with the other employees and his case has to be treated differently.
there is therefore, no discrimination when in the matter of promotion, he is treated differently.
[804g h; 805a] 6.
the least that is expected of any administration is that it does not reward an employee 'with promotion retro spectively from a date when for his conduct before that date he is penalised in presenti.
when an employee is held guilty and penalised and is, therefore, not promoted at least till the date on which he is penalised, he cannot be said to have been subjected to a further penalty on that account.
a denial of promotion in such circumstances is not a penalty but a necessary consequence of his conduct.
[805b c] 7.
while considering an employee for promotion his whole record has to be taken into consideration and if a promotion committee takes the penalties imposed upon the employee into consideration and denies him the promotion, such denial is not illegal and unjustified.
if the.
promoting authority can take into consideration the penalty or penalties awarded to an employee in the past while considering his promotion and deny him promotion on that ground, it will be irrational to hold that it cannot take the penalty into consideration when it ' is imposed at a later date because of the pendency of the proceedings, although it.
is for conduct prior to the date the authority considers the promotion.
[805c d]