the appellant 's election to the legislative assembly was challenged by the respondent in his election petition before the high court.
it was contended by the election petitioner that the respondent had used a religious symbol for the furtherance of his election prospects which was a corrupt practice under section 123(3) of the representation of the people act, 1951.
the high court declared the election of the successful candidate to be void and set it aside.
the successful candidate preferred the present appeal.
on the question whether the use of a religious symbol in the election of respondent amounted to corrupt practice u/s 123(3) of the representation of the people act, 1951, this court, held:1.1.
there is no doubt that the offending poster is a religious symbol.
the depiction of anyone in the attire of lord krishna blowing a 'shanku ' and quoting the words from the bhagavad gita addressed by lord krishna to arjuna that his incarnation would be born upon the earth in age after age to restore dharma is not only to a hindu by religion but to every indian symbolic of the hindu religion.
the use by a candidate of such a symbol coupled with the printing upon it of words derogatory of a rival political party must lead to the conclusion that the religious symbol was used with a view to prejudicially affect the election of the candidate of the rival political party.
[350g h] 1.2.but there is no evidence to show that the offending poster was printed by or at the behest of the successful candidate.
the successful 346 347 candidate himself in his evidence denied that he had the offending posters printed or pasted.
the averment in the election petition that the offending posters were pasted by followers, supporters and party men of the successful candidate is not established.
[351b d] 1.3.the evidence on record does not establish that the offending posters were used at the election by the successful candidate or his election agent or with their consent.
[352d] 1.4.the standard of proof in an election petition is rigorous, having regard to the quasi criminal nature of the proceeding.
the charge laid against the successful candidate under section 123(3) has not been established on the basis of the evidence on record.
[351g]