the appellant was selling ice sticks.
the food inspector took samples and sent one sample to the public analyst, who opined that it contained artificial sweeteners viz. saccharin and dulcin and was therefore adulterated.
a complaint was filed before the judicial magistrate.
appellant pleaded not guilty and exercised his right to have the sample analysed by the central food laboratory.
according to the report of the central food laboratory the sample contained artificial sweetener identified as saccharin.
the magistrate convicted the appellant for an offence under sec.
16(1) (a) read with see.
7(1) of the act, sentenced him to suffer one year rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs. 2,000 and in default to undergo imprisonment for three months.
the appeal preferred by the appellant was dismissed by the sessions judge.
the criminal revision petition riled before the high court was also dismissed.
hence the present appeal.
on behalf of the appellant it was contended that since the report of the public analyst which had found the presence of dulcin in the sample stood superseded by the report of the central food laboratory which had not found the presence of dulcin, the consumption of which was injurious to health under the rules, the conviction of the appellant for an offence under section 16(1 a) of the was not justified; and that the presence of artificial sweetener like saccharin, which has not been declared as injurious to health could not attract the provisions of s.16(1a) of the act.
partly allowing the appeal, this court 708 held:1.
it would be seen from section 16(1 a) of the that in order to maintain a conviction under the said provision, the article of food which is adulterated should fall either in one of the sub clauses(e) to (1) of clause (ia) of section 2 or should contain an adulterant which is injurious to health.
the adulterated article of food sold in this case admittedly does not fall in any of the sub clauses (e) to (1) of section 2(ia).
according to the report of central food laboratory, it also does not contain any adulterant declared as 'injurious to health '.
[712 e, f] 2.however, keeping in view the fact that the article of food, 'ice stick ' sold by the appellant did not conform to the standard as prescribed in item a.07.04 of appendix b and contained an artificial sweetener saccharin it is obvious that the article of food sold by the appellant was adulterated within the meaning of section 2(ia)(m) of the act and the same would, therefore, be punishable under section 16(1) (a) (i) of the act.
[713 c] 3.it cannot be said that since the appellant had been charged for an offence under section 16(1 a) of the act, he could not be convicted for an offence under section 16(1) (a) (i) of the act.
the penalty for an offence under section 16(1) (a) (i) admittedly is less than the penalty prescribed for the offence under section 16(1 a), which is a graver offence and therefore, there is no impediment in the way of the court, on the findings of the fact recorded by it, to convert the conviction of the appellant from the one under section 16(1 a) to one under section 16(1) (a) (i) of the act, notwithstanding the fact that the appellant had been charge sheeted for an offence under section 16(1 a) of the act.
[713 e, f] 4.judicial notice is taken of the fact that the type of adulterated article sold by the appellant is the one generally consumed by children and it is not only illegal but even immoral to serve them with articles containing artificial sweeteners use whereof has been prohibited by the statute.
just because the appeal has remained pending here since 1985 the society cannot be made to suffer for this delay by letting the criminal go unpunished as a crime of this nature, being a crime against the society at large, cannot be ignored.
sympathy in such cases is totally misplaced.
[714 b d] 5.the conviction of the appellant is altered from the one under section 16(1 a) read with section 7(1) of the act to the one under section 16(1) (a) (i) read with section 7(1) of the act and the sentence is reduced from one year 709 r.i. and a fine of rs. 2,000 to the minimum prescribed for the said offence ie.
six months r.i. and a fine of rs. 1,000 in default of which the appellant shall suffer imprisonment for one month more.
[714 e]