a company dismissed from its service four of the appellants, for taking part and instigating others to join, in an illegal slowdown strike in the hot mill section of its works, which were a public utility service.
on such dismissal the slow down strike however gained strength.
the company thereupon issued a notice dated april 8, 1953, to the workers of the hot mill that unless they voluntarily recorded their willingness to operate the plant to its normal capacity, before 2 p.m. of april 10, they would be considered to be no longer employed by the company.
as a result forty workers recorded their willingness, but the rest did not make any response at all.
the company then issued a second notice dated april 25, stating, inter alia, that the workers who did not record their willingness to work the plant to its normal capacity in terms of the previous notice dated april 8, had been considered to be no longer in service and their formal discharge 320 from the company 's service had been kept pending in order to assure to the fullest that no one who wanted to work normally was being discharged on circumstantial assumptions and calling upon the workers to record their willingness by april 28, 1953, to operate the plant to its normal capacity, and further intimating that failing this their names would be removed from the company 's rolls and their discharge would become fully effective with all the implications of a discharge.
after this notice the entire body of workers of the works except those engaged in the essential services went on strike thereafter, the company with the sanction of the government filed a complaint under section 27 of the industrial disputes act against the appellants for having instigated and incited others to take part in an illegal strike.
the appellants were convicted.
the appellants challenged the said conviction under section 27 of the act contending that the strike was not illegal as the strike had been in consequence of an illegal lock out declared by the company by the said notices dated april 8 and april 25.
the appellants further contended that the notices did not effect a discharge, but declared a lock out and that even if the notices did effect a discharge, then also there was a lock out, for a discharge is equally a lock out.
finally the appellants challenged the propriety of, the sanction under section 34(1) of the act to make the complaint as the sanction did not on the face of it refer to the facts constituting the offence.
held, that on a construction of the notices they bad the effect of discharging the workmen, and did not amount to a declaration the removal of the name of a worker from the roll of the company was a formality which the notices said had been kept pending and this did not prevent the discharge having taken effect.
the words " refusal by an employer to continue to employ any number of persons employed by him " in section 2(1) do not include the discharge of an employee.
held, further that sanction under s 34(1) of the act would be good if it was proved by evidence that it had been granted after all the necessary facts had been placed before the sanctioning authority though the facts were not stated on the face of the sanction itself.
presidency jute mills co. ltd. vs presidency jute mills co. employees, union, [1952] i.a.c. 62, approved gokalchand dwarkadas morarka vs the king, (1948) l.r. 75 i.a. 30, discussed.