the government of u. p. appointed a court of enquiry under sections 6 and 10 of the united provinces , and referred to it the present dispute.
the court of enquiry submitted its report to the government, whereupon the government issued a notification in july, 1950, directing the various sugar factories to pay bonus to their workmen for the years 1948 49 as well as to pay certain amounts as bonus for the years 1947 48.
331 court against the government, prohibiting it from enforcing the notification.
the state government came up in appeal, urging, that the provisions of cl.
(b) of section 3 of the united provinces , were wide enough to permit it to issue such a direction to the employer because by doing so the state government would be imposing a condition of employment in future.
the respondents, inter alia, contended that (1) clause (b) of section 3 of the act does not operate retrospectively ; (2) bonus could only be a term of employment by agreement and could not be imposed by statute ; (3) where there was an industrial dispute cl.
(d) and not cl.
(b) of section 3 of the act would apply and (4) if cl.
(b) was applicable it was ultra vires being discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the constitution and also violative of article 19(i) of the constitution as it confers arbitrary powers on the state government.
held, that (i) though cl.
(b) of section 3 of the united provinces , could not be given a retrospective effect, yet there was nothing therein which prohibited the state government from giving a direction with regard to the payment of bonus and by giving such a direction the state government was not giving retrospective effect to the provisions of that clause nor did it add a new term or a condition for a period which was over, it merely required the employer to pay an additional sum of money to their employees as a term and condition of employment in future; (ii) though normally wage is a term of contract it can be made a condition of employment by statute, and it was open to the state government under cl.
(b) of section 3 to make the payment of bonus to workmen a condition of their employment in future; (iii) where the employees bargained in their collective capacity, the fact that the personnel of the factory when the order for the payment of bonus was made by the government and in the year to which dispute related were not the same, did not affect the power of the government as the order would apply only to those employees who had worked during the period in question and not to new employees ; (iv) the normal way of dealing with an industrial dispute would be to have it dealt with judicially and not by resort to executive action, but cl.
(b) of section 3 empowers the government to act promptly in case of an emergency and arms it with additional powers to deal with such an emergency in the public interest; (v) when the government had made an executive or per under cl.
(b) of section 3 on the ground that it was in the public interest to do so it was open to the aggrieved party to move the government to refer the industrial dispute for conciliation or adjudication under cl.
(b) of section 3 of the act.
332 (vi) the provisions of cl.
(b) of section 3 are not in any sense alternative to those of cl.
(d) and the former could be availed of by the state government only in an emergency and as a temporary measure.
the right of the employer or the employee to require the dispute to be referred for conciliation or adjudication would still be there and could be exercised by them by taking appropriate steps; (vii) clause (b) of section 3 of the act is not violative of the provisions of article 19(1)(g) of the constitution as it permits action to be taken thereunder by the government only in an emergency and in the public interest.
the restriction placed upon the employer is only a temporary one and having been placed in the public interest falls under cl.
(6) of article 19 of the constitution.
ram nath koeri and anr.
vs lakshmi devi sugar mills and ors., , approved.
l. d. mills vs u. p. government, a.i.r. 1954 all. 705, overruled.