kay swee pin

      v

      singapore island country club and others

    [2010] sghc 175case number:suit no 973 of 2008decision date:10 june 2010tribunal/court:high courtcoram:

      belinda ang saw ean j

    counsel name(s):

      s h almenoar and raji ramason (r ramason & almenoar) for the plaintiff; 

      ang cheng hock sc, ramesh s/o selvaraj and eunice chew (allen & gledhill llp) for the defendants.

    parties:

      kay swee pin — 

      singapore island country club and others

    
10 june 2010judgment reserved.


        belinda ang saw ean j:
introduction
1       the plaintiff, kay swee pin

                    (“ksp”), is a principal member of the first defendant, singapore

                    island country club (“sicc” or “the club”). the

                    second to thirteen defendants (collectively, “d2” to

                    “d13”) are being sued as members of the general committee of the

                    sicc (“the gc”). the subject matter of this libel action is a

                    notice suspending ksp’s club membership for the period from 19 may

                    2006 to 18 may 2007 (“the notice”) which was, by order of the

                    gc, posted for a year on the notice boards of sicc’s bukit and island

                    clubhouses.
the background
2       this libel action is a sequel to ksp’s

                    successful judicial review proceedings against sicc, whereby her year-long

                    suspension as a member of the sicc was held to be invalid by the court of appeal

                    (see kay swee pin v singapore island country club

                    [2008] 2 slr (r) 802 (“kay swee pin v sicc

                        (ca)”)). to vindicate her reputation, ksp is seeking

                    substantial damages for defamation from the defendants. the details of the

                    proceedings before the disciplinary committee of the sicc (“the

                    dc”), and the judicial review proceedings in the high court (see

                        kay swee pin v singapore island country club

                    [2007] sghc 166 (“kay swee pin v sicc

                        (hc)”) for the high court’s grounds of decision) are

                    set out in kay swee pin v sicc (ca).
3       the brief factual background for present

                    purposes is this. in 1992, ksp made an application to sicc to be approved as a

                    principal member after purchasing her membership from an existing member. in her

                    application form, ksp declared one ng kong yeam (“nky”) as her

                    spouse. as a spousal member, nky would be entitled to use the club’s

                    facilities. for clarity, i should reproduce here the text of the declaration in

                    the application form completed by ksp. it stated:
i, the undersigned, declare that all the information given herein is

                        true.
the signature of ksp as the proposed transferee followed immediately

                    after the declaration.
4       in august 2005, acting upon concerns raised

                    by some sicc members over ksp’s marital status, the second defendant

                    (“d2”), who was the then president of sicc, asked the membership

                    department to check whether ksp’s membership file contained a copy of

                    ksp’s marriage certificate. none was found. this was not surprising

                    because prior to 1994, the club did not require a member to submit a copy of his

                    or her marriage certificate when registering his or her spouse as a spousal

                    member to use the club’s facilities. the membership department then asked

                    ksp for a copy of her marriage certificate in order to update her membership

                    record. on 10 september 2005, ksp provided sicc with a copy of her marriage

                    certificate, which showed that her marriage to nky was registered on

                    24 august 2005 in las vegas, state of nevada.
the charge against ksp
5       on 26 september 2005, the club received a

                    formal complaint lodged by a sicc member, one john lee (“jl”)

                    against ksp. jl called upon sicc to investigate concerns among sicc members over

                    ksp’s marital status as she was running for the post of lady captain of

                    the lady golfers’ sub-committee of sicc (“lady captain for

                    golf”). the complaint was referred to the gc. in october 2005, the

                    gc decided to institute disciplinary proceedings against ksp. the dc of sicc

                    duly convened a hearing in accordance with rule 34 (a) of the club’s

                    rules (“the rules”). on 18 november 2005, a charge against

                    ksp (“the charge”) was framed in the following manner:

                        [note: 1]
...[y]ou have acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the club

                        and its members in that, you have falsely declared mr ng kong yeam

                        (nric s2504572/f) as your spouse, to make use of the club’s facilities

                        since september 1992, when the marriage certificate submitted by you on

                        [saturday] 10 september 2005 showed that your marriage to mr ng

                        kong yeam was only registered on 24 august 2005 in las vegas, state of

                        nevada.
proceedings before the dc
6       ksp’s answer to the charge was that even

                    though she had formally registered her marriage to nky only on 24 august

                    2005, it did not mean that they were not married much earlier. she maintained

                    that they had clearly been husband and wife for over 20 years, and this was

                    acknowledged by everyone to be so. their daughter from the marriage was already

                    18 years old. in her written responses of 7 january 2006 and

                    8 february 2006, ksp informed the club of her chinese customary marriage to

                    nky on 12 january 1982 having observed traditional and customary rites in

                    the marriage ceremony. to substantiate her claim, ksp submitted to the dc, four

                    statutory declarations confirming her customary marriage to nky and the legal

                    opinion of messers haris azmi & associates (“haa”), a

                    malaysian law firm, that confirmed that marriages solemnised under any custom

                    prior to 1 march 1982 would be deemed to be registered under s 4 of

                    the law reform (marriage and divorce) act 1976 (no 164 of 1976)

                        (malaysia).[note: 2] haa

                    further opined that ksp and nky’s marriage on 12 january 1982 in

                    accordance with chinese custom would be deemed to be registered under the

                    aforementioned statutory provision.
7       at the hearing on the charge on 11 february

                    2006, the dc’s concern was whether ksp was divorced from her first

                    husband, koh ho ping (“khp”), when she joined the club in 1992.

                    sicc wrote to ksp seeking information and documents relating to the dissolution

                    of her marriage to khp. in response to the club’s request, ksp said that

                    she was unable to recall the exact date of the dissolution of her first

                    marriage, which had taken place more than 20 years ago before she joined sicc as a member. she remarked that her first

                    marriage was an unhappy period in her life that was best forgotten. she also

                    confirmed that she did not have any documents relating to the dissolution of

                    that marriage. in any case, she felt that details of the dissolution of her

                    first marriage were irrelevant to the charge. her explanation of why she and nky

                    had registered their marriage in las vegas on 24 august 2005 was that they

                    had done so in order to provide a marriage certificate as requested by sicc.

                    significantly, ksp pointed out that if the sicc had insisted on the submission

                    of a marriage certificate at the time she applied to be a member in 1992, she

                    and nky could easily have complied by registering their marriage at that

                    time.
8       based on the divorce documents filed in court

                    (which were obtained by the club and made available to the dc), ksp filed her

                    divorce petition on 23 december 1982. the decree nisi was granted on

                    28 november 1983, and the decree absolute was granted on 2 march 1984.

                    to the dc, the court documents showed that ksp was already divorced from khp at

                    the time she joined sicc. on that basis and in the light of her marriage to nky

                    on 12 january 1982 at the new hong kong restaurant, johor bahru, malaysia,

                    according to chinese customary rites, the dc recommended that the charge be

                    withdrawn. the dc specifically stated in its findings that it was unable to

                    confirm whether singapore law would recognise the malaysian customary marriage

                    between ksp and nky in 1982 in view of the fact that ksp’s divorce was

                    only finalised in 1984.
9       the dc's findings and recommendations were not

                    accepted by the gc. in its deliberations, it noted that ksp’s first

                    marriage had been dissolved only on 2 march 1984 whereas her customary

                    marriage to nky had been entered into on 12 january 1982. the gc concluded

                    that, on the evidence, ksp had still been married to khp on 12 january

                    1982. as such, she could not have had the requisite legal capacity to marry nky

                    on that date. the gc remitted the case back to the dc with directions that it

                    decide the complaint on the basis that nky was not “the spouse at the

                    material time of nomination to the club",[note: 3] and that it take into account any

                    relevant mitigating factors.[note: 4]
10     the dc met again on 21 april 2006 to

                    deliberate and make its recommendations on the complaint to the gc based on the

                    fact that nky was not a spouse. in that connection, the dc noted that the

                    ordinary grammatical meaning of the word “spouse” is one’s

                    husband or wife under a valid marriage.[note: 5] in the report which it issued after

                    this meeting ("the second dc report"), the dc identified the following as

                    mitigating factors:[note: 6]
(a)  prior to january 1994, the club did not require

                        a member to provide a copy of his or her marriage certificate in order to

                        register his or her spouse as spousal member.
(b)  if

                        the club had required such a certificate when ksp applied to join as a

                        member, she and nky could have complied with such a requirement.
(c)  ksp did not hide her marital status. everyone who knew her

                        acknowledged nky and her as husband and wife. in fact, ksp and nky had a

                        daughter who was already 18 years old.
(d)  there was

                        no attempt to cheat or deceive the club.
(e)  nky had

                        used the club’s facilities as a spousal member, not with the intention

                        of cheating, but as a result of a technical breach of the

                    rules.
11     the dc recommended that sicc be compensated

                    for green fees amounting to $12,500 that it could have collected from ksp for

                    nky's golf games from 2001 to date (the records for the period prior to 2001

                    were not available). the dc was of the view that this was a sufficient

                    penalty.
suspension of ksp’s membership and the notice
12     the gc met on 8 may 2006 to consider the

                    second dc report. the gc adopted the recommendations, but, in addition, decided

                    to suspend ksp’s club membership for a year from 19 may 2006 to

                    18 may 2007. following the decision of the gc, sicc posted on the notice

                    boards at its clubhouses copies of the notice, which read as follows:
suspension of membership
member’s name: kay swee pin
membership number    : k 1074
incident : acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the club and

                        its members in that, she had falsely declared mr ng kong yeam as her

                        spouse to make use of the club facilities since september 1992, when the

                        marriage certificate submitted by her on saturday, 10 september 2005

                        showed that her marriage to mr ng kong yeam was only registered on

                        24 august 2005 in las vegas, state of nevada.
period of suspension: one year from 19 may 2006 to 18 may 2007

                        (both dates inclusive).
by order of the general committee
13     it is sicc’s standard operating practice

                    to put up notices, such as the notice in this case, on its notice boards to

                    inform sicc members of the outcome of concluded disciplinary hearings involving

                    sicc members. the notice remained on sicc’s notice boards for the duration

                    of ksp’s suspension, namely, from 19 may 2006 to 18 may

                    2007.
14     when ksp learnt about her suspension and the

                    posting of the notice on sicc’s notice boards, she wrote to the gc on

                    25 may 2006 expressing her shock at not having been informed of her

                    suspension before it was announced to the club’s members via the notice.

                    in the same letter, she said that she and nky had been seriously maligned. the

                    notice, she pointed out, did not refer to her marriage to nky on 12 january

                    1982. she reminded the gc that she had submitted proof that her 1982 marriage

                    was “proper and legal under existing malaysian marriage

                        laws”.[note: 7] sicc

                    replied on 7 june 2006 to say that it was not the club’s practice to

                    put up suspension notices only after the member in question had been notified.

                    extremely upset, ksp wrote a second letter to the gc on 24 june 2006

                    setting out her arguments as to why there had been a serious miscarriage of

                    justice, viz: at the time she declared nky to be

                    her spouse in her application form, she believed in good faith that she was

                    validly married to nky and did not know that her declaration was in fact false;

                    thus, she could not have falsely declared nky to be her spouse. she pointed out

                    that no one had ever suggested that her marriage to nky was invalid until the

                    impending election for the lady captain for golf. moreover, she asserted that

                    since she and nky were in a strong financial position and have paid $190,000 for

                    membership of the club, they would not have gone to the extent of lying about

                    their relationship just to save some green fees which they could well

                    afford.
15     receiving no response from the sicc, ksp wrote

                    a third letter on 18 september 2006 requesting that the club, at its annual

                    general meeting (“agm”), pass a resolution to revoke her

                    suspension. sicc rejected that request. on 28 september 2006, ksp e-mailed

                    sicc stating that the rules allowed sicc members to discuss any matter at an agm

                    provided seven clear days’ notice was given. sicc replied to say that her

                    request was out of order, and that since, during her period of suspension, she

                    was not permitted to enter the club’s premises, she would not be allowed

                    to participate in the forthcoming agm.
the judicial review proceedings
16     as we now know, the events described above

                    culminated in ksp’s application to the high court via originating summons

                    no 2125 of 2006 (“os 2125/2006”) for judicial review of the

                    club’s decision to suspend her membership for a year and for revocation of

                    the suspension. it is not necessary to go into the arguments canvassed before

                    the high court; suffice it to say that the high court dismissed ksp’s

                    application in os 2125/2006. on appeal vide civil appeal no 46 of 2007

                    (“ca 46/2007”), the court of appeal set aside the suspension order

                    of the gc on three grounds. first, it found that the gc had erred in failing to

                    focus on whether the charge was made out, and that the gc’s decision was

                    irrational and unreasonable. the essence of the charge was that ksp had made a

                    false declaration, which necessarily meant that it had to be proved that when

                    she filled in the name of nky as her spouse in the application form, she knew

                    that that was a false statement and made that false statement deliberately so

                    that nky could make use of the club’s facilities. these two matters, the

                    court of appeal held, were clearly not considered as the gc addressed its mind

                    instead to the wrong question of whether ksp was validly married to nky when she

                    declared him to be her spouse in 1992. the court of appeal’s conclusion on

                    this point is succinctly put by chan sek keong cj at [64] of kay swee ping v sicc (ca) in the following terms:
[w]e came to the conclusion that the gc erred in law in focusing its

                        discussion … on whether [ksp’s] customary marriage with [nky]

                        in 1982 was valid or not, and in failing to ask itself whether the charge

                        was made out. we were also of the view that the gc’s finding that

                        [ksp] was guilty as charged was irrational and unreasonable. its reasoning

                        was illogical and was based on a failure to address the charge. the gc

                        inferred [ksp’s] intention from the consequences of her act, ie, it inferred that because [nky] had enjoyed the

                        use of the club’s facilities as a spousal member, [ksp] must have

                        declared him as her spouse with that intention. this was irrational.
17     second, the court of appeal found that the gc

                    had breached the rules of natural justice. for instance, the gc had failed to

                    give ksp an opportunity to respond to jl’s email of 1 april 2006

                    which took issue with the dc’s initial recommendation that the charge be

                    withdrawn. in particular, ksp was not given the chance to respond to jl’s

                    allegation in the email that her customary marriage was void or to explain why

                    the nullity of that marriage (assuming it was indeed void) did not matter for

                    the purposes of the charge. the gc had therefore breached its duty to give a

                    fair hearing to ksp. furthermore, the court of appeal said that the gc had

                    prejudged ksp’s guilt which led the gc to reject, for the wrong reasons,

                    the dc’s initial recommendation that the charge be

                withdrawn.
18     third, the court of appeal held that the

                    charge was illegal because the rules only applied to sicc members: at the time

                    ksp named nky as her spouse in the application form, she was not yet a member of

                    the club.
19     for these reasons, the court of appeal allowed

                    the appeal and declared the suspension order invalid. in addition to ordering a

                    refund of all sums paid by ksp pursuant to the gc’s decision, the court of

                    appeal also awarded ksp damages to be assessed by the registrar. at the hearing

                    of the assessment of damages on 29 august 2008, the club was ordered to pay

                    (and has since paid) damages in the sum of $72,000, the breakdown of which is as

                        follows:[note: 8]
(a)     the sum of $32,000 for the

                        deprivation of membership rights and privileges as a result of the

                        suspension of ksp’s membership for a year; and
(b)     the sum of $40,000 for mental distress

                        sustained by ksp as a result of the wrongful

                suspension.
bigamy investigations against ksp
20     after ksp’s successful appeal,

                    in march 2008, jl complained to the registry of marriages of her bigamous

                    marriage to nky. this led to the police investigations into the possible

                    commission of an offence of bigamy. at the time of the trial, no formal charges

                    have been preferred against ksp.
the libel action
21     on 23 december 2008, ksp filed her writ

                    of summons in the present libel action. the subject matter of this suit is the

                    notice. the subject matter of the notice was also referred to in an announcement

                    published in the june 2006 issue of “islander”, a monthly publication of sicc. the outcome of

                    the disciplinary proceedings was mentioned in that announcement (“the

                        islander announcement”), but ksp was

                    not mentioned by name therein. ksp is relying on the islander announcement as a factor relevant to her claim for

                    aggravated damages (see [24]

                below).
22     as stated, upon judicial review of

                    sicc’s decision in ca 46/2007, the court of appeal held that the

                    suspension of ksp was invalid by reason of illegality, breaches of natural

                    justice and procedural impropriety in the conduct of the disciplinary

                    proceedings. in the result, the notice as a whole published in respect of

                    ksp’s suspension information that was unfounded and wrong. in this

                    context, the words in the notice were untrue and allegedly defamatory.

                    ksp’s pleaded case is that, in the circumstances described, sicc and d2 to

                    d13 (as members of the gc) had wrongly, falsely and maliciously published the

                    notice.
23     in claiming that the notice was libellous, ksp

                    set out in para 8 of the statement of claim the alleged meanings which she

                    ascribed to the notice. her plea is that the natural and ordinary meanings of

                    the words used in the notice meant and were understood to mean the

                    following:
(a)     ksp acted in a manner prejudicial to

                        the interests of sicc and its members (“meaning

                    (1)”);
(b)     ksp

                        made a declaration that was false (“meaning

                    (2)”);
(c)     ksp

                        was a dishonest person (“meaning (3)”);
(d)     ksp was a cheat (“meaning

                        (4)”); and
(e)     ksp committed fraud (“meaning

                (5)”).
24     ksp is seeking aggravated and exemplary

                    damages arising out of the fact that (a) the notice was only removed on

                    19 may 2007, one year after it was put up; (b) sicc refused to remove the

                    notice despite ksp’s repeated requests that it be removed during the

                    period of her suspension; and (c) the subject matter of the notice was referred

                    to in the islander announcement.
25     the defendants do not deny that the notice was

                    placed on sicc’s notice boards for a year and that it referred to ksp.

                    however, the defendants deny that the notice was defamatory and contend that the

                    words complained of, in their natural and ordinary meaning, are not capable of

                    bearing any of the defamatory meanings pleaded by ksp. the defendants have also

                    raised the defences of justification and qualified privilege in the event that

                    the words do carry the defamatory meanings pleaded by ksp.
26     on the defence of justification, detailed

                    particulars are given in para 11 of the defence (amendment no 1). in

                    particular, the defendants plead in para 7 of the defence (amendment

                    no 1) that since ksp was found guilty of the charge, the notice, which

                    substantially mirrors the words used in the charge, accurately summarised the

                    outcome of the disciplinary proceedings against her. at any rate, the defendants

                    contend, the notice was posted in accordance with the club’s standard

                    operating practice, and ksp had in fact been found guilty of the charge at the

                    conclusion of the disciplinary proceedings. other particulars of justification

                    are referred to later on in this judgment. paragraph 13 of the defence

                    (amendment no 1) contained a plea that the notice was published on an

                    occasion of qualified privilege. i will return to the defences of justification

                    and qualified privilege later in this judgment.
27     it is convenient to note at the outset that

                    despite their pleaded case, the defendants through their counsel, mr ang

                    cheng hock sc (“mr ang”), have confirmed in their closing

                    submissions that they accept that the words complained of bear meaning (1),

                    meaning (2) and meaning (3), but they deny that those words bear meaning (4) and

                    meaning (5). mr ang submits that the words complained of are not capable of

                    bearing a defamatory meaning that is more serious than words to the effect that

                    ksp had made a declaration knowing that it was false and/or was dishonest in

                    this respect.[note: 9] in rejecting meaning (4) and

                    meaning (5), mr ang submits that these two meanings are not borne out by

                    the plain words of the notice, but are instead subjective, strained, forced and

                    the product of an over-elaborate analysis of the notice.[note: 10]
issues raised in the libel action
28     there is no dispute that the notice was

                    published and referred to ksp. the issues in this libel action are as

                    follows:
(a)     whether each of the meanings pleaded

                        by ksp is capable of: (i) being conveyed by the words in the notice, and

                        (ii) defaming ksp;
(b)     if the answer to (a) is yes, whether the defence of justification is

                        available to the defendants;
(c)     further, if the answer to (a) is yes, and the defence of

                        justification is not available, whether the notice was published on an

                        occasion of qualified privilege, and if so, whether the publication of the

                        notice was actuated by malice so as to defeat the defence of qualified

                        privilege; and
(d)     the quantum of damages payable to ksp, if applicable.
29     one related matter that has to be considered

                    is the doctrine of issue of estoppel. ksp has raised issue estoppel in her reply

                    (amendment no 1) in the context of the defendants’ plea that it was

                    not wrong at the material time for sicc to publish the notice as ksp had been

                    found guilty of the charge and had thereafter been suspended as a member for one

                    year. in response to the defendants’ plea, ksp has cited her successful

                    appeal in ca 46/2007 – she contends that her suspension was found by the

                    court of appeal to be invalid and the defendants are estopped from relying on

                    the findings of the disciplinary proceedings that led to her suspension to

                    validate the posting of the notice on sicc’s notice boards. in his closing

                    submissions, ksp’s counsel, mr s h almenoar

                    (“mr almenoar”), referred to kay swee pin

                        v sicc (ca), relying on the judgment as a whole and specific

                    passages therein which, in his view, amount to findings of fact necessary for

                    establishing libel. for example, mr almenoar argues that the defendants are

                    estopped from denying that the charge (and, hence, the notice) connotes an

                    intention on ksp’s part to cheat or deceive sicc.[note: 11] in relation to the defence of

                    justification, which is based on the premise that the defamatory words are

                    substantially true, mr almenoar argues that the plea of justification is

                    tantamount to a collateral attack on the findings of the court of appeal, and

                    that is not permissible by virtue of the doctrine of issue estoppel. moreover,

                    since the gc was wrong to have found ksp guilty of the charge, the notice should

                    never have been published and the defendants, so the argument develops, ought

                    not to be allowed to succeed on their defence of justification.[note: 12] on the question of malice in the

                    context of the defendants’ defence of qualified privilege, ksp appeared to

                    be content at the trial to support her allegation of malice by inviting the

                    court to look at the alleged findings of the court of appeal, which, in her

                    view, demonstrate malice on the part of the defendants, and did not adduce any

                    evidence to this end.
30     in his opening statement, mr ang

                    dismissed as misconceived, ksp’s estoppel argument (as mentioned in the

                    preceding paragraph, ksp relied on the judgment and the alleged findings of the

                    court of appeal to invoke the doctrine of issue estoppel as a complete response

                    to the defences raised by the defendants). if ksp’s argument on estoppel

                    is right, the present case would be an open-and-shut case of defamation; the

                    blueprint for her success would be contained in the judgment of the court of

                    appeal. on that score, it is appropriate and expedient that i first address the

                    issue estoppel argument, which is, in my view, a short point.
issue 1: issue estoppel
31     if ksp is looking to the court of

                    appeal’s decision to establish the defendants’ liability in this

                    libel action (or is, at least, seeking to transpose the findings of fact and,

                        inter alia, the conclusions of breach of

                    natural justice from that decision wholesale into this libel action), and to say

                    that the court of appeal’s decision is conclusive against the defendants,

                    and if she is indeed entitled to do so, then the court of appeal’s

                    judgment is potentially a powerful factual tool in ksp’s hands. for

                    instance, on the question of malice in the context of the defendants’

                    defence of qualified privilege, ksp could potentially defeat any reliance on

                    this defence by inviting the court to look at the alleged findings on malice

                    made by the court of appeal without adducing any actual evidence of malice. even

                    so, mr almenoar’s difficulty is that a judgment itself is not

                    admissible to prove the truth of the facts which it state (see trans-world (aluminium) ltd v cornelder china

                        (singapore) [2003] 3 slr(r) 501).
32     it is worthwhile standing back at this

                    juncture from the arguments and details being relied upon. i start with some

                    basic propositions. the principles of res judicata

                    and issue estoppel apply between parties to the earlier proceedings or their

                    privies. this is the long-established principle of mutuality. mr ang argues

                    that it cannot be suggested here that either principle has any direct

                    application which gives the court of appeal’s judgment in ca 46/2007

                    evidential value in establishing facts that need to be proved in separate

                    proceedings against strangers to the earlier judicial review proceedings,

                    namely, d2 to d13. mr almenoar disagrees. he says that d2 to d 13, as

                    members of the gc, may be considered “privies” of sicc. since the

                    gc is in charge of the management of the sicc, d2 to d13 can be considered

                    privies in interest to sicc. this is because by definition, “privies of

                    the parties” include (see spencer bower and

                        handley: the doctrine of res

                        judicata (lexisnexis, 4th ed, 2009) at

                    para 9.38):
… any person who succeeds to the rights or liabilities of a party

                        on death, insolvency, by assignment or by statute, or who is otherwise

                        identified in estate or interest. the party estopped by privity must have

                        some interest, legal or beneficial, in the previous litigation or its

                        subject matter, and accordingly assignees are privies of the assignor.

                        privity was described by the us supreme court as a mutual successive

                        relationship to the same right of property, although this cannot be

                        exhaustive. privity is a matter of substance, not form.
33     in addition, as members of the gc (which, as

                    just mentioned, is in charge of the management of the sicc), d2 to d13 are

                    effectively identical to sicc (see goh nellie v goh lian

                        teck [2007] 1 slr (r) 453 at [32]-[33]

                        (“goh nellie”) on persons who

                    are effectively parties).
34     with regard to the requirements to establish

                    issue estoppel, the court in wing joo loong ginseng hong

                        (singapore) co pte ltd v qinghai xinyuan foreign trade co ltd

                    [2009] 2 slr 814 at [165] reiterated the principles on issue estoppel laid out

                    in lee tat development pte ltd v management corporation of

                        grange heights strata title no 301 (no 2) [2005]

                    3 slr(r) 157 at [14]-[15] as follows:
(a)    there must be a final and conclusive judgment on

                            the merits of the issue which is said to be the subject of an

                            estoppel;
(b)    that judgment must be by a court of competent

                            jurisdiction;
(c)    the parties in the two actions that are being

                            compared must be identical; and
(d)    there must be identity of subject matter in those

                            two actions.
35     on the present facts, it is clear that

                    criterion (d) is not satisfied. the subject matter of the present action and os

                    2125/2006 are quite different. as mr ang rightly pointed out, criterion (d)

                    encapsulates a number of discrete conceptual strands (see goh

                        nellie at [34]-[37]).first, the issues have to be identical in

                    the sense that the prior decision must have traversed the same ground as the

                    subsequent proceedings, and the facts and circumstances giving rise to the

                    earlier decision must not have changed or must be incapable of change. second,

                    the previous determination in question must have been fundamental and not merely

                    collateral to the previous decision such that the decision cannot stand without

                    that determination.
36     notably, os 2125/2006 was a judicial review

                    action in which the court was determining whether there had been breaches of

                    natural justice and procedural impropriety in the conduct of the disciplinary

                    proceedings instituted by the gc of sicc against ksp. the present action,

                    however, is a claim in libel in relation to the notice published by sicc.

                    although it could be said that the two actions are somewhat related factually,

                    it cannot be said that there is identity in the subject matter of the two

                    proceedings in the sense of the decision by the court of appeal traversing the

                    same ground as the present action, such that ksp is entitled to reply on the

                    principle of issue estoppel.
37     the broad grounds of the court of

                    appeal’s decision are set out in [16]-[18] above. the issue

                    of whether nky was, at the material time, ksp’s spouse was not determined

                    by the court of appeal; neither was it necessary for the court of appeal to make

                    findings of fact on (a) whether or not ksp’s declaration of nky as her

                    spouse was false and (b) whether or not ksp’s declaration was made with

                    the intention to cheat or deceive the club in order to register nky as a user of

                    the club’s facilities. the court of appeal’s decision in ca 46/2007

                    that the suspension was invalid was not even collateral to these two questions,

                    and there is nothing in the judgment to constitute an issue estoppel in the

                    present litigation.
38     finally, i should mention that the defendants,

                    in raising the defences of justification and qualified privilege, are not

                    seeking to challenge the decision that the suspension was invalid. hence,

                    mr almenoar’s attempt to rely on the extended doctrine of res judicata or the defence of abuse of process is

                    misplaced.
39     for the reasons stated, issue estoppel does

                    not arise in the present case.
issue 2: whether each of the meanings pleaded is capable of being

                conveyed by the words complained of and, thus, capable of defaming ksp
the legal principles
40     the principles for determining the natural and

                    ordinary meaning of offending words in a defamation action are not in dispute.

                    they were set out recently in review publishing co ltd and

                        another v lee hsien loong and another [2010]

                    1 slr(r) 52 (“review publishing v lee hsien

                        loong (ca)”) at [27] as follows:

the court decides what meaning the words would have

                            conveyed to an ordinary, reasonable person using his general knowledge

                            and common sense: jeyaretnam joshua benjamin v goh chok tong

                        [1984-1985] slr 516; [1985] 1 mlj 334 (“jjb v gct”) and jjb v

                            lky (1992) ([19] supra)]. the test is an

                            objective one: it is the natural and ordinary meaning as understood by

                            an ordinary, reasonable person, not unduly suspicious or avid for

                            scandal. the meaning intended by the maker of the defamatory

                        statement is irrelevant. similarly, the sense in which the words were

                        actually understood by the party alleged to have been defamed is also

                        irrelevant. nor is extrinsic evidence admissible in

                            construing the words. the meaning must be gathered from the

                        words themselves and in the context of the entire passage in which they are

                        set out. the court is not confined to the literal or

                            strict meaning of the words, but takes into account what the ordinary,

                            reasonable person may reasonably infer from the words. the

                        ordinary, reasonable person reads between the lines. …
[emphasis in original]
41     in determining the meaning of the alleged

                    defamatory words (ie, in determining whether the

                    statements or words complained of are capable of bearing any of the defamatory

                    meanings attributed to them), the court’s task is to put itself in the

                    position of the hypothetical reasonable reader reading the offending literature

                    as a whole without being too analytical or too literal in considering the words

                    used (see ashok segar v kok fonn lyn veronica

                    [2010] sghc 168 at [39]).
42     the hypothetical reasonable reader may

                    reasonably infer a meaning from the words used. there is an important difference

                    between inferences and implications, and this difference must be appreciated. the

                        inferences that the ordinary reasonable person

                    may draw are based on his general knowledge, common sense and experience, and

                    are entirely permissible. on the other hand, implications are based on extrinsic evidence which is not

                    admissible as a matter of law in the construction of the natural and ordinary

                    meaning of the offending words (see microsoft

                        corporation v sm summit holdings

                        ltd [1999] 3 slr(r) 465 at [53]).
43     after the natural and ordinary meaning of the

                    offending words has been ascertained, the court’s next consideration is

                    whether that meaning is defamatory. for guidance, some definitions of the word

                    “defamatory” which were approved and used in the past are noted in

                        halsbury’s laws of singapore,

                    vol 18 (lexisnexis: 2009 reissue) (“halsbury’s”) at para 240.091 as follows

                    (although, admittedly, these definitions are not comprehensive or

                    exhaustive):
there is no exhaustive definition for what constitutes a defamatory

                        statement, since the word ‘defamatory’ is nowhere precisely

                        defined. a statement is defamatory of the person of whom it is published if

                        it tends to lower him in the estimation of right thinking members of society

                        generally or if it exposes him to public hatred, contempt or ridicule or if

                        it causes him to be shunned or avoided. an untrue statement is not

                        necessarily a defamatory statement; in order to be defamatory, the statement

                        must lower the plaintiff in the estimation of others, or expose him to

                        hatred, contempt or ridicule. a person’s reputation is not confined to

                        his general character and standing but extends to his trade, business or

                        profession, and words will be defamatory if they impute lack of

                        qualification, knowledge, skill, capacity, judgment or efficiency in the

                        conduct of his trade, business or professional activity.
44     consideration has to be given to the actual

                    words used and the circumstances in which they were used. it must be remembered

                    that the context in which the words appear is also important as it may be that

                    the words used cannot be understood in a defamatory sense in certain contexts.

                    the question is how the words would be understood in their proper context, and

                    not how they were meant to be understood by the author/publisher.
the meanings of the words complained of
45     the meanings pleaded in para 8 of the

                    statement of claim are reproduced in [23]

                    above. as stated earlier, the defendants accept that the impugned words in the

                    notice are capable of bearing meaning (1), meaning (2) and meaning (3). in

                    adopting this stance, the defendants are in effect contending that those words,

                    in their natural and ordinary sense, are not capable of bearing in relation to

                    ksp, any meaning beyond the meaning that she made a declaration knowing that it

                    was false and/or was dishonest in this regard. mr ang, on behalf of the

                    defendants, submits that the impugned words in the notice are not capable of

                    bearing meaning (4) and meaning (5).
46     i begin with mr almenoar’s

                    submissions. he submits, and rightly so, that the impugned words must be read in

                    the context of the notice as a whole in order to ascertain whether their natural

                    and ordinary meaning can be any of the meanings pleaded by ksp. the reader

                    looking at the notice as a whole would have his attention drawn to the heading

                    of the notice which states in bold letters: “suspension of

                    membership”. mr almenoar argues that this heading would immediately

                    tell the reader that a member’s membership has been suspended, and the

                    reader would infer that the member must have done something “awfully

                    wrong” for this to happen.[note: 13] the questions that would come to the

                    reader’s mind are: “who is this member?” and “what

                    did the member do?” moving down the notice, the reader finds the answers.

                    the reader is able to easily identify ksp as the member in question as her name

                    and her membership number are on the notice. as the reader reads on, it will

                    become clear that ksp is said to have “falsely declared mr ng kong

                    yeam as her spouse in order to make use of [club’s] facilities”.

                    this statement conveys the meaning that ksp is a dishonest person, and a cheat.

                    in addition, the words “since 1992” suggest to the reader that

                    “the cheating had been continuous for the past 14 years (date of notice

                    19 september 2006)”.[note: 14] mr almenoar says the meaning

                    finally conveyed by the notice as a whole (viz,

                    that ksp had acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the club as in

                    meaning (1) when read in the light of the allegations that (a) ksp falsely

                    declared nky as her spouse so that he could make use of the club’s

                    facilities; (b) ksp was dishonest and cheated in making the false declaration;

                    and (c) nky as a result obtained the benefit of the use of the club’s

                    facilities since 1992), is that she was fraudulent and had committed

                    fraud.
47     to reinforce meaning (4), mr almenoar

                    points to how the court of appeal interpreted the charge in ca 46/2007: in the

                    court of appeal’s view, the word “falsely” connoted a

                    deliberate lie or deception in order to cheat sicc (see kay

                        swee pin v sicc (ca) at [59]). commenting on the essence of the

                    charge, the court of appeal said at [53]:
the charge was that in 1992, [ksp] had falsely declared nky as her spouse

                        so as to enable him to make use of the club’s facilities. in the

                        context of the charge, the word “falsely” implied that [ksp]

                        had made an untrue statement in order to cheat or deceive the club into

                        allowing nky to use the facilities of the club. it implied that when she filled in the name of nky as her spouse on

                        her application form in 1992, she knew that it

                        was a false statement and that she made it deliberately so that nky could use the facilities of the

                        club. [emphasis added]
48     mr almenoar complains that despite this

                    clear “finding” on the meaning of the words used in the charge,

                    the defendants have still chosen to submit that the words in the notice do not

                    in their natural and ordinary meaning “[connote] that she cheated or was

                    a cheat”.[note: 15]
49     in response, the defendants assert that

                    mr almenoar’s argument is specious and not convincing. they contend

                    that in the earlier judicial review proceedings (which was not an action in

                    defamation), the court of appeal interpreted the essence of the charge in the

                    light of the issues raised in those proceedings and considered that an implied

                        mens rea element, (ie, an intention to cheat or deceive) arose out of the charge.

                    in the defendants’ view, it does not follow that the court of

                    appeal’s interpretation of the charge in the judicial review proceedings

                    necessarily accords with the objective meaning which the notice would have

                    conveyed to the hypothetical reasonable reader who is a fair-minded person. in

                    any case, mr ang concludes that, if the court finds that the imputed

                    meanings to the words in the notice are defamatory, the sting of the libel is

                    that ksp had made a declaration knowing that it was false and/or was dishonest

                    in this regard. according to mr ang, the sting is substantially true on the

                        facts.[note: 16]
50     adopting the legal principles and the approach

                    set out above, the notice is capable of bearing the meaning attributed to it in

                    meaning (4) in so far as it alleges dishonest conduct. the

                        cambridge international dictionary of english (london: cambridge

                    university press, 1995) at p 221 defines a “cheat” as

                    “a person who behaves in a dishonest way”. the notice sets out in

                    terms the basis on which the club found that ksp had made a declaration which

                    was false – namely, she married nky in las vegas on 24 august 2005

                    and not earlier. based on the notice, ksp had inexcusably made a false

                    declaration, and the hypothetical reasonable reader would understand that, in

                    effect, ksp’s conduct could fairly be described as cheating and was

                    dishonest.
51     however, i agree with mr ang that meaning

                    (5) is a product of an over-elaborate analysis of the words complained of. a

                    hypothetical reasonable reader would not have understood the words to allege

                    fraud or to allege that ksp had committed fraud in making the false declaration.

                    the falsehood was in respect of ksp’s marital status in 1992, in that ksp

                    named nky as her spouse whereas her marriage to nky was in fact solemnised and

                    registered only on 24 august 2005 (“situation (1)”). we are

                    here concerned with situation (1). in respect of meaning (5), ksp’s state

                    of mind at the time she filled in the application form needs to be ascertained

                    in order to prove fraud, which usually connotes an intent to deceive someone

                    like the club. the words complained of in themselves do not say in terms or

                    suggest that ksp made the false declaration “at the time of filing of the

                    application form”, which is the relevant date. in context, the phrase

                    “since september 1992” is capable of being understood to refer to

                    the length of time for which nky made use of the club’s facilities; it is

                    not referable to the point in time when ksp made the false declaration. i agree

                    with mr ang that it is not possible to attribute meaning (5) to the notice

                    either by the plain words of the notice or inferentially.
52     in my judgment, the sting is not so much in

                    the words themselves as in what the hypothetical reasonable reader would infer

                    to be ksp’s dishonest conduct based on the facts as set out in the notice

                    and the premise of the notice, which is that ksp had inexcusably made a false

                    declaration. in effect, ksp’s improper conduct could fairly be described

                    as cheating and was dishonest. the club accepted nky as a spousal member. her

                    dishonest conduct was an act prejudicial to the interest of the

                club.
53     the notice is therefore, and i so find,

                    libellous. the imputation of ksp’s dishonest conduct in connection with

                    nky’s use of the club’s facilities for 14 years as a spousal member

                    before ksp’s marriage to nky was registered on 24 august 2005 is

                    defamatory as it is enough to induce an ill opinion of ksp in the mind of the

                    hypothetical reasonable reader of the notice and to cause ksp to be shunned or

                    avoided as a result of these words.
issue 3: whether the defence of justification is available to the

                defendants
the legal principles
54     the legal principles in this area of the law

                    are well settled. the defendant who relies on the defence of justification must

                    plead precisely the meaning which he seeks to justify. as court of appeal stated

                    in aaron anne joseph v cheong yip seng [1996]

                    1 slr(r) 258 (“aaron v cheong yip

                        seng”) at [68]:
on this issue [of justification] it is necessary to consider first what

                        precisely the [defendants] sought to justify. the law on

                            this point is now quite clear. where a defendant in a defamation action

                            pleads justification, he must do so in such a way as to inform the

                            plaintiff and the court precisely what meaning or meanings he seeks to

                            justify: see lucas-box v news group

                            newspapers ltd [1986] 1 wlr 147, at 153; viscount de l'isle v times newspaper ltd [1988] 1 wlr 49, at

                        60 and prager v times newspapers ltd [1988] 1

                        wlr 77, at 86. all these three cases were decided by the english court of

                        appeal and the relevant passages of the judgments of various members of the

                        court were set out and commented on in lee kuan yew v

                            davies derek gwyn [1989] 2 slr(r) 544 at [45] to

                        [48], and it is unnecessary to repeat them here. ... [emphasis added]
55     to succeed in a plea of justification, the

                    defendant need only prove that the substance or gist of the offending words (as

                    opposed to those parts of the offending words which do not add to the sting of

                    the alleged defamation) is true (see review publishing v lee

                        hsien loong (ca) at [134] and gatley on libel

                        and slander (sweet & maxwell, 11th

                    ed, 2008) at para 11.9).
56     if the defendant seeks to justify a defamatory

                    meaning different from the meaning propounded by

                    the plaintiff, he must plead clearly the different meaning which he seeks to

                    justify (see evans on defamation in singapore and

                        malaysia (lexisnexis, 3rd ed, 2008) at p 96):
obviously, a defendant to a defamation action is not obliged to ascribe a

                        meaning to the words in issue, for ... the plaintiff must establish the

                        defamatory meaning of the words. however, if a defendant pleads

                        justification, then he must show in his pleadings the meaning which he seeks

                        to justify. the defendant is obliged to plead justification in a way which

                        makes it clear [what] the meaning [which] he seeks to justify [is].

                            in situations where the defendant puts forth a

                            defamatory meaning different from that pleaded by the plaintiff, and

                            which he seeks to justify, he must clearly and unequivocally plead the

                            meaning which he seeks to justify.
[emphasis added]
justification: the issue to be determined
57     when deciding the issue of justification, i

                    have to decide whether a sufficient proportion of the allegations made in the

                    notice were factually correct. the sting of the libel was the imputation of

                    ksp’s dishonest conduct. so the question which i have to decide is whether

                    the defendants made good on a balance of probabilities the sting of the libel is

                    substantially true. the defendants do not need to prove each and every word is

                    true. the burden is upon the defendants although the defendants are entitled to

                    rely on s 8 of the defamation act (cap 75, rev ed 1985) (“the

                    act”) which provides that the failure of a defendant to prove the truth

                    of every imputation against the plaintiff will not be fatal to the plea of

                    justification if the imputations not proved to be true do not materially injure

                    the plaintiff’s reputation when regard is had to those imputations which

                    have been proved against the plaintiff.
58     the defendants submit as their fall back

                    argument that the substance or gist of the notice in each of the defamatory

                    meanings alleged by ksp is substantially true. there are the several aspects to

                    their plea of justification and to support their claim, they raised five points,

                    namely,
(a)     the contents of the notice were

                        factually true and accurate at the material time that it was

                        published;
(b)     ksp’s declaration of nky as her spouse at the time of her application

                        to be a member in september 1992 was false;
(c)     ksp knew that her declaration of nky as her

                        spouse at the time of her application to be a sicc member in september 1992

                        was false;
(d)     in

                        any event, ksp had conceded at trial that she had, in fact, not entered into

                        any customary marriage with nky in january 1982 and, therefore, the position

                        taken by her as regards there being such a customary marriage in the

                        disciplinary proceedings as well as os 2125/2006 and ca 46/2007 was

                        untrue;
(e)     the

                        defendants rely on section 8 of the act and in any event, they have proven

                        the sting of the alleged libel by reasons of the above

                facts.
59     the matters upon which i have to focus are

                    those relating to ksp’s dishonest conduct. in this respect, points (b) (c)

                    and (d) are relevant and will have to be examined. it is in my view important to

                    note that if, on the evidence, dishonesty is made out from her improper conduct,

                    there still remains the question whether the false declaration was deliberate,

                    and it is usual for that element to coincide with a finding of

                    dishonesty.
(i)   

        no customary marriage in

                    1982

60     the false declaration related to ksp’s

                    marital status before the solemnisation and

                    registration of her marriage to nky on 24 august 2005 in las vegas. it is

                    significant that ksp’s case before the dc was that there was no false

                    declaration in that nky was her spouse by virtue of her customary marriage to

                    nky which she claimed took place in johor bahru on 12 january

                1982.
61     i start with her email of 7 january 2006

                    to one michelle choy, a staff of sicc:[note: 17]
please forward this e-mail to the gc as i will now provide some

                        information regarding my marriage.
my husband and i have been happily married for over 20 years and our

                        daughter is already 18 years old. in 1982, we married in

                            johore bahru where my husband lived and worked, we observed traditional and customary rites in our marriage

                            ceremony, which was witnessed by our very close friends (some of whom i

                            will ask to sumit (sic) affidavits if necessary) and relatives. as

                            traditional marriages were accepted and legal in malaysia at that time,

                            we had done what was necessary and regarded ourselves as legally and

                            properly married. everyone who knew us acknowledged us as

                        husband and wife and throughout our over 20 years together, no third party

                        has ever emerged to challenge the validity of our marriage.
when the club, from out the blues, asked for a copy of my marriage

                        certificate, i realised that i did not possess one as customary marriages

                        did not provide for one. as i felt it was too much hassle to explain to the

                        club, my husband and i decided to obtain one from las vegas as that is where

                        our second home is. even though it is registered

                            in august 2005, it certainly does not mean that we have only been

                            recently married. we married in 1982 and only registered it in 2005

                            because the club needed something in black and white.
[emphasis added]
62     in her 8 february 2006 letter to d2 as

                    president of the club, ksp referred to her 7 january 2006 email and

                    reminded d2:
as i have already explained in my e-mail dated jan.7, 2005 [sic], my

                        marriage to dato ng kong yeam took place long before we formally registered

                        it in las vegas on aug. 24, 2005. it was within our rights not to

                        register our marriage when we married in 1982 and we chose not to do so. a

                        piece of paper is not the only proof of a person’s marital

                        status.
after 13 years of being members of sicc, i was suddenly asked to produce a

                        copy of my marriage certificate as mr john lee (writing under the guise

                        of a “concerned” member) had written to the club questioning

                        my marital status. i admitted to the gms that i did not possess one as i was

                        married 23 years ago under traditional customs and laws. …
[emphasis added]
63     to prove that the charge was groundless, and

                    to lend credence to her claim that she and nky (a malaysian) went through a

                    chinese customary marriage in 1982, ksp provided the dc with four statutory

                    declarations and a written legal opinion dated 7 january 2006 from haa. the

                    legal opinion was tendered to prove that her customary marriage to nky was

                    recognised as a legal marriage under malaysian law. of the four statutory

                    declarations, one was affirmed by nky who confirmed that he and ksp went through

                    a customary marriage having observed chinese customary rites.[note: 18] the other three statutory

                    declarations were from nky’s secretary, friend and sister respectively and

                    they all confirmed knowledge of nky’s chinese customary marriage to ksp on

                    12 january 1982 in that they were present at the wedding where the marriage

                    between nky and ksp was solemnised at the new hong kong restaurant, johor bahru

                    according to chinese customary rites.[note: 19] on the basis of their chinese

                    customary marriage, haa opined that such a marriage in accordance with custom

                    entered into before 1 march 1982 would be deemed to be a registered

                    marriage under malaysian law.[note: 20] given the strength of the evidence as

                    described, it was not surprising that the court of appeal in kay swee pin v sicc (ca) concluded that ksp had a valid

                    explanation as to how nky was her spouse in 1992 when the las vegas marriage

                    certificate showed that they were married only in 2005.
64     it is clear from the evidence that ksp was

                    saying to the dc that at the time of her application to join sicc, she was

                    validly married to nky. this must be so, on any reasonable view, for ksp had

                    gone to great lengths to submit proof of her customary marriage and its

                    recognition as a legal marriage under malaysian law at the time she joined the

                    club.
65     unfortunately for ksp, in the course of the

                    disciplinary proceedings, sicc found out that ksp was still legally married to

                    khp on 12 january 1982. the club wrote to ksp for information on when her

                    marriage to khp was dissolved. no information was provided by ksp (see

                        [7] above). the club then got hold of the

                    divorce papers filed in court. the club learned that the divorce petition was

                    filed by ksp on 23 december 1982, the decree nisi granted on

                    28 november 1983 and the decree absolute was granted on 2 march 1984

                    (see also [8] above). we know from the facts

                    that gc directed the dc to deliberate and make its recommendation on the

                    complaint to the gc “based on the fact that dato ng was not [her]

                        spouse”.[note: 21]

                    ultimately, ksp was found guilty and her membership was suspended for one year.

                    notice of her suspension was placed on several notice boards in the clubhouses.

                    when ksp came to know of the notice, she wrote to the gc demanding to know the

                    reason for the dc’s decision. in her letter of 25 may 2006, ksp

                    queried why the notice only mentioned the marriage registered in 2005 and not

                    her marriage to the same man on 12 january 1982 in johor bahru. ksp again

                    referred to documents she submitted to the dc to prove that her marriage on

                    12 january 1982 was “proper and legal under existing malaysian

                    marriage laws”. in challenging the club’s ruling on the illegality

                    of her marriage in malaysia, ksp wrote: [note: 22]
just for the information of gc members who may have been misinformed, i

                        have never been convicted by any court in the world (singapore included) for

                        committing bigamy. i have never even been charged by anyone for committing

                        bigamy.
66     sicc replied on 7 june 2006 and after

                    setting out the facts and documents produced, went on to state:[note: 23]
(iii)  if the chinese customary marriage was valid on

                        12 january 1982 as suggested by you, it would appear that you have 2

                        valid subsisting marriages at the same time.
…
based on the above, gc disagrees with you that it should accept the fact

                        that there can be 2 valid marriages existing at the same [time] ..or that it

                        ought to accept your view as insisted by you that your customary marriage is

                        validly solemnised while the other marriage was still in existence.
67     in response to her suspension as a member for

                    one year, ksp filed os 2125/2006 and in her first affidavit of 14 november

                    2006 (“the os affidavit”), she visibly backtracked and did an

                    about turn, departing radically from the position taken in her communications to

                    sicc in january and february 2006 and the statutory declarations submitted

                    to the dc. on oath, ksp admitted in the os affidavit that there was no marriage to nky on 12 january 1982 because of a

                    legal impediment in her way: she was not free to marry nky as she was still

                    married to khp and for that reason did not go

                    through with the planned customary marriage after all. the relevant paras of the

                    os affidavit read as follows:[note: 24]
23. in jan. 1979, i separated from my former husband, mr koh ho ping

                        after only one year and seven months of marriage. during that time, we had a

                        daughter, who was born in june 1978.
24. sometime in mid 1979, i met mr ng kong yeam.
25. in early 1980, mr koh ho ping and i decided to divorce.

                        subsequently, we engaged lawyers to handle the matter.
26. mr ng kong yeam and i decided to get married and after

                        consultation with our respective parents, we decided to have a customary

                        marriage on jan. 12, 1982 in mr ng’s domicile (johore

                        bahru).
27. as i was informed by my lawyers that my divorce had been filed

                        sometime in 1981 and since my former husband and i agreed that the divorce

                        would be uncontested, i thought that by the time of my

                            second marriage, my divorce would have been finalised. hence, the jan

                            12, 1982 date was set.
28. however, there was an unexpected delay in the

                            courts and my divorce hearing could not be fixed before the date of my

                            intended marriage. nevertheless, as all the preparations have been made,

                            mr ng and i decided to hold the ceremonial dinner for the sake of

                            our parents.
29. my divorce from my former husband was finally granted in dec.

                        1983.
30. after the decree nisi was made absolute, mr ng

                            and i contemplated as to whether we should host another dinner to

                            formalise our marriage. we decided against it as we felt it was

                            unnecessary to repeat what we have already done.
68     in cross-examination by mr ang, ksp

                    confirmed that there was no wedding on

                    12 january 1982, and after her divorce in 1984, she and nky did not go through any kind of ceremony or registration of

                    any marriage until 24 august 2005 when they solemnised and registered their

                    marriage in las vegas.[note: 25] i am

                    mindful that her admission on affidavit was on 14 november 2006 well

                        before the march 2008 complaint lodged by

                    jl to the registry of marriages of her bigamous marriage to nky and before the police started investigating into the

                    complaint of bigamy.[note: 26]
69     at the trial of the libel action, ksp admitted

                    in cross-examination that: (a) there was no

                    customary marriage on 12 january 1982 or at anytime thereafter until ksp

                    and nky registered their marriage on 24 august 2005.; and (b) at the time

                    she filled up the application form to join the club in 1992 and declared nky as

                    her spouse, she knew that she was not legally married to nky and he was not

                    legally her spouse;[note: 27] and (c)

                    ksp believed that at the time she joined the club, nky was married to someone

                    else [ie, madam ling], but she was nky’s

                    second wife, albeit “not legally his second wife”.[note: 28]
70     in the light of her own testimony in the os

                    affidavit and during cross-examination by mr ang, the obvious conclusion is

                    that she must have lied to the dc that she and nky were married in accordance

                    with chinese custom on 12 january 1982 and that such a marriage was legal

                    under malaysia law as it was entered into prior to 1 march 1982. in short,

                    ksp advanced a fundamentally dishonest case before the dc. it was based on a lie

                    from the outset and that attempted cover-up of her marital status was partly

                    exposed when the club found out that she was still married to khp on

                    12 january 1982.
71     it is now a convenient juncture to set out her

                    answers to mr ang’s questions in cross-examination on points (a) and

                    (b) (see [69] above). to repeat, the truth

                    of the matter as admitted by ksp on oath is that ksp and nky did not marry each

                    other under chinese custom on 12 january 1982 or at any time thereafter

                    until 24 august 2005 when they solemnised and registered their marriage in

                    las vegas. at the time she filled up the application form to join the club in

                    1992 and her decision to declare nky as her spouse, she was aware that nky was

                    not legally her spouse: [note: 29]

q.
and as an educate---as an educated and intelligent woman, you knew

                                all along even in 1992---i will go back further to 1982, that if you

                                are married to someone, you cannot enter into another marriage with

                                another person, correct?


a.
that is correct.
q.right. even as of 1982, you knew

                        that?
a.yes.
q.all right. and you knew that even as of 1982, if

                            you---if you were married to let’s say person a, and during the

                            course of the marriage, you try to enter into another marriage with

                            person b, you knew in 1982 that that would be an offence,

                            correct?
a.yes.
…

q.
right. so would you agree with me, and i don’t think there is

                                any doubt, you could not possibly have legally married dato ng in

                                1982, correct?


a.
yes, and i have admitted that many, many times

                            already.
q.and you would agree with me that after your divorce

                            petition was made---your divorce was made in 1984, you and dato ng did

                            not go through any kind of ceremony or registration of any

                            marriage.
ano.
q.right. after 1984.
a.no.
q.right. and you only did so---so therefore you would

                            agree with me that based on your answers that you and dato ng were never

                            legally married.
a.yes.
…
q.and you only became legally married based on your

                            definition in august of 2005---
a.yes.
q.---when you all registered your marriage

                            in---
a.yes.
q.---in las vegas nevada. correct?
a.yes.

q.
so

                                in 1992, when you declared dato ng to be your husband or your spouse

                                in your application to join the club, you knew that he was not

                                legally your husband. correct?


a.
yes.
[emphasis in bold added]
72     by the time of the libel trial, ksp appeared

                    to be under police investigations for bigamy. in cross-examination, she was

                    asked questioned about the bigamy investigations and her attempts to enlist the

                    help of one mr ee chin seng (“ecs”), a close acquaintance of

                    nky, to come forward to tell the police that he was not aware of any customary

                    marriage between nky and ksp so that his statement would resolve the complaint

                    of bigamy against ksp. in that connection, ksp emailed ecs on 4 april 2008

                    and 19 april 2008.[note: 30]
73     at the trial, ksp explained that with

                    ecs’s testimony, the police would in all likelihood bring to an end the

                    bigamy investigations against her.[note: 31] initially, ksp was evasive when questioned

                    whether she had informed the police that she had entered into a customary

                    marriage with nky in january 1982.[note: 32] subsequently, ksp conceded that she had

                    indeed informed the police that she had not

                    entered into a customary marriage with nky in january 1982. instead, she

                    clarified that what she had informed the police was that both nky and herself

                    held a “dinner” on 12 january 1982 to merely acknowledge and

                    “celebrate a commitment to each other” and intention then was that

                    they would get married in the future. ksp explained that the reason why they did

                    not undergo any customary marriage then was because she knew at that time she

                    was still married to khp. the relevant excerpts of ksp’s answers in

                    cross-examination are set out below:[note: 33]
q.just listen to my question. did

                                you tell the police that you did not enter into a customary marriage

                                in january 1982? forget about after 84,

                        right?

a.

yes.

q.

did you tell the police that you did not enter into a customary

                                marriage on [12] january 1982?


a.

i

                                told the police that i had this dinner, definitely i admitted

                                that.

q.

did you tell the police that it was not a marriage

                                dinner?


a.

yes, i told the police that we did not---we didn’t have the

                                normal traditional, you know, like tea offering ceremony, that kind

                                of thing, yes. i did say that.

…


q.

you tried to enter into a customary marriage in january

                                82.

a.

…i just told the police i had this dinner. the original

                                intention was to announce that we were going to get married, but

                                then because of this legal impediment, we had to, you know, we just

                                had to skip all the formalities, but the dinner … sorry the

                                dinner was held nevertheless.

…


q.

… is it your position that there was no customary marriage

                                in 1982?


a.

yes, it is strictly speaking that, you know, you need to go all

                                through all these rites, i did not go through. so if that constitute

                                there is no customary marriage, then there is no customary

                                marriage.
…
q.but it never took place, the customary marriage, am

                            i right?
a.but in---in view of the legal

                                impediment, we---we---at least i felt that i took---what should i

                                say, i took care, you know, not to be---run foul of law, so to

                                speak, but in my mind, there was the intention and we had

                            it, because it’s meant to be, like i said, an

                                announcement of a commitment to this person, that yes, we intend

                                to---we intend be married, but because of the legal

                            impediment, we couldn’t do it, but that dinner was the intention

                            was---was known, and thereafter, i mean i---i just assumed that---or i

                            deemed myself married to this man and has been ever since.

q.

so

                                on 12th of january 82, the day of the dinner, what you are saying is

                                that while you intended to go through it, a customary marriage, it

                                did not go through at the end because you knew on 12th january 1982,

                                that there was an impediment to you getting married. is that

                                right?


a.

yes.

…


q.

so---and therefore when you had a dinner, you knew it was not a

                                customary marriage because there was an impediment stopping you from

                                getting married, correct?


a.

yes.

q.

correct?


a.

yes.

q.

in

                                1982.

a.

yes.

q.

you were very clear about that.

a.

yes.
[emphasis in bold added]
(ii)   

        conduct to be

                inferred

74     naturally, the contradictory position taken by

                    ksp as regards her alleged customary marriage to nky in 1982 gives rise to

                    serious doubts as to her credibility and reliability as a witness. the radical

                    change in her story has undermined and removed the “credible

                    explanation” the court of appeal had identified as having been proffered

                    by ksp for declaring nky as her spouse in the application form in 1992

                        (ie, she was married to nky according to

                    chinese custom and deemed a legal marriage under malaysian law). the declaration

                    in the application form would be untrue and false if the word

                    “spouse” in the application form has a legal connotation, and this

                    was so if ksp was aware of this at the material time.
75     despite her barefaced inconsistencies, ksp

                    tried to argue before me that, at the time of her application to be a sicc

                    member, she had understood the meaning of the word “spouse” to

                    refer to someone whom she shared a spousal relationship with and not necessarily

                    someone to whom she was married. her understanding was that one could declare

                    someone as a spousal member to use the club’s facilities even though that

                    person was not a spouse at law. ksp claimed that it was her understanding that a

                    member could even register his girlfriend as a spouse member at sicc as long as

                    he believed that his girlfriend was like a wife to him.
76     furthermore, ksp said she believed nky was her

                    spouse and that it was a mistake to claim that

                    their relationship was a legal marriage before the dc. the fact of the matter,

                    however, is that there was no genuine mistake: she knew all along that the word

                    “spouse” meant one’s lawful husband or wife; in truth and in

                    fact, she was conscious at the time she applied to join the club in 1992 that

                    she was not married to nky; and she was conscious

                    he was not her spouse in the legal sense. this is

                    what she said in answer to mr ang’s questions: [note: 34]
q.even though he’s not your spouse, you can

                            declare him as a spouse to use the club’s facilities? even though

                            he’s not legally your spouse, you can declare him.
a.even though he’s not legally a spouse, yes,

                            yes, yes. definitely that was my belief.
…
q.and if you honestly believed that, ms kay, if

                            you honestly believed that, when the club decided to investigate you in

                            2005 and 2006 as to whether or not you had falsely declared him as your

                            spouse, you would have just told the truth, “i regarded him as my

                            spouse even though i did not legally marry him in january 82. i regarded

                            him as my spouse.” instead you went through great lengths to put

                            in evidence to show that he was legally married to you,

                        correct?
…
q.you went through great length in the disciplinary

                            committee proceedings to show that he was legally married to you. you

                            put in malaysian lawyers, you put in stat docs.
a.that’s why i said i believed he was married

                            to me. if the word “legally” is---is should not be there,

                            then i made a mistake. but---
q.you put there, ms kay.
a.yes, i put it there, that’s why i said if i

                            put it there, and i made a mistake. but the fact is i considered him to

                            be my spouse.
q.so your evidence, ms kay, is that

                            doesn’t really matter when you joined sicc. doesn’t really

                            matter whether he’s your spouse, as long as the person considered

                            the person to be the spouse, that’s okay.
a.no, i considered him to be my spouse, that’s

                            why i put him as my spouse. i didn’t put anyone else but

                            him.
q.so if there is a male club member who has a

                            girlfriend and in his mind he believed that this woman who he---was his

                            girlfriend only is his because they have a spousal type relationship, he

                            can register her as a spouse member.
a.i am sure the club has registered many such

                            members. that is –
…
q.ksp, your case is that you could register

                            mr ng as a spouse because as far as you are concerned, he is your

                            spouse, whether you are legally married to him or not,

                        correct?
a.yes.
q.so my question is, if what you say is even logical,

                            any club member who has a girlfriend and he honestly believed that as

                            far as he was concerned, “she’s like my wife”, he

                            can register as a spouse.
a.i am sure.
…
q.so that is perfectly okay, as far as you are

                            concerned?
a.yes.
…
q.i see. that is your honest evidence?
a.yes.

q.
i

                                suggest to you, ms kay, that that cannot be your honest

                                evidence because if that was the case, you would have just told the

                                club, when you were investigated as to whether or not you had made a

                                false declaration, you would have just told the club,

                                “he’s not legally married to me but this is what

                                happened”. instead, you went to great length to show that he

                                was legally married to you. your true understanding therefore, was

                                that “spouse” literally means you are validly---you

                                are husband or wife under a valid marriage and you knew

                                that.

a.
mr ang, i cannot agree with you more, that is what i should

                                have done. that is what i really should have done. but

                                ---

[emphasis in bold added]
77     mr ang’s observation, which i agree

                    with, is that the only logical reason why ksp had furnished the legal opinion

                    and statutory declarations to the dc was because she accepted and knew that the

                    word “spouse” in the application form meant one’s husband or

                    wife under a valid marriage, and, logically and on any reasonable view, that

                    must have been her understanding way back in 1992 when she declared nky as her

                    spouse in the application form. as pointed out in [68] and [69] above, ksp has

                    admitted that there was no marriage to nky according to chinese custom on

                    12 january 1982, and there was also no marriage to nky in 1992. notably,

                    ksp admitted that nky was still married to someone else (ie, madam ling) at the time she joined the club in 1992, and

                    that she was his “second wife”, albeit not legally so:[note: 35]
q.now, and you believed that you were the second wife

                            to dato ng.
a.yes.
q.and---so let me try to understand this,

                            ms kay. your evidence in a nutshell is that you believed that at

                            the time you joined the club that dato ng was married to someone else

                                [ie madam ling], but you were his

                            second wife.
a.yes.
q.but not legally, not legally his second wife. is

                            that your evidence?
a.yes.
earlier, ksp had agreed that in 1992 when she declared nky as her

                    spouse in the application form, she was aware that he was not legally her

                    husband. she said in answer to mr ang’s questions:[note: 36]
q:so in 1992, when you declared dato ng to be your

                            husband or your spouse in your application to join the club, you knew

                            that he was not legally your husband. correct?
a:yes.
q:so to say that he was your husband, in 1992, when

                            you joined the club, that’s actually false, right?
a:he was the spouse…as far as…in my

                            mind, he was my spouse.
78     in my view, ksp is not a reliable witness, and

                    i treat her evidence with caution. her case in os 2125/2006 and ca 46/2007 was

                    that if the club had asked her in 1992 to submit a marriage certificate before

                    nky could be registered as a spousal member, the couple could easily have

                    complied by registering their marriage then as both were free to do so (see

                        kay swee pin v sicc (ca) at [57]). we now know

                    from her evidence in cross-examination that there is no truth in the case

                    previously advanced by ksp: even though her divorce from khp was finalised by

                    1984, nky was, nevertheless, still married to madam ling in 1992, and,

                    accordingly ksp could not have submitted a marriage certificate if the club had

                    insisted on one in 1992. it was ksp’s case, gathered from the transcripts

                    of the proceedings before tay yong kwang j, that she discussed her marital

                    status with her sister when she came to the part of the application form where

                    ksp was required to put down the name of “spouse to be registered”

                    as user of the club facilities. even if ksp, for the sake of argument, had

                    doubts as to whether she could name nky as her spouse in the application form

                    (and i have already found against ksp on that point in so far as ksp knew at

                    that time that “spouse” meant a spouse under a valid marriage),

                    the onus, in my view, was on ksp to clarify with the club its position since she

                    was required to sign a declaration that “all the information given [in

                    the form] is true”. it was obvious from her submissions before tay j

                    that the approach which she decided to take was to name nky as her spouse, and

                    should the club query her, she would then decide whether to proceed with the

                    application or withdraw her nomination of nky as a spousal member, or register

                    her marriage to nky (“the approach”). i make two points. first, it

                    is telling from the three options that she was aware that the term

                    “spouse” in the application form was referable to the

                    applicant’s husband or wife under a valid marriage. second, ksp’s

                    decision to chance it, so to speak, by naming nky as her spouse. from what she

                    said, it appears quite clear to me that she considered and assessed the risk of

                    telling a lie in her application form, and decided to take that risk in the

                    knowledge of the approach which she had decided she would adopt towards the

                    club’s reaction as discussed with her sister.
79     in my view, ksp was aware, and i so find, that

                    at the time she applied to join the club, she appreciated that the term

                    “spouse” in the application form did not mean the

                    applicant’s companion, partner or escort but the applicant’s husband

                    or wife under a valid marriage. i also find that ksp’s declaration of nky

                    as her spouse in the application form for the purpose of registering him as a

                    user of the club’s facilities was deliberate and false. it was contrary to

                    the undertaking she gave in the application form that all information provided

                    are true. she could have filled up the form without naming nky as her spouse but

                    she did not – she knowingly made the declaration and submitted the form

                    with the false information to the club. in the circumstances, at the risk of

                    repetition, her dishonest conduct lay in her declaring nky as her spouse on her

                    membership application form even though she knew at that time that she was not

                    married to nky, coupled with her decision to take the risk of making that false

                    declaration after discussing with her sister how she should respond if the club

                    were to ask for documentary proof of her marriage to nky. as it turned out,

                    there was no immediate query from the club - the lie was found out 13 years

                    later when the club charged her. from that perspective, her conduct was

                    dishonest. in meaning, her conduct could fairly be described as cheating and was

                    dishonest. therefore, the sting of the notice is substantially true, and the

                    defence of justification is made out.
section 8 of the defamation act
80     i have already concluded that the plea of

                    justification succeeds in relation to the meanings that i have found. in

                    addition, i have not found in favour of ksp on meaning (5). in the

                    circumstances, there is no need for the defendants to rely on s 8 of the

                    act.
other matters
81     for completeness, i now turn to the remaining

                    aspects of the defendants’ plea of justification, namely, the contents of

                    the notice were factually true and accurate at the material time.
82     it is not disputed that the notice

                    substantially reproduced the charge that was preferred against ksp in the sicc

                    disciplinary proceedings, and that it accurately summarised the outcome of the

                    disciplinary proceedings at the time of its publication. at the time the notice

                    was put up on the notice boards, ksp had in fact been found guilty of the charge

                    and sicc had, inter alia, suspended ksp’s

                    membership for a period of one year as stated in the notice. for that reason,

                    the contents of the notice, so the defendants argue, were factually true and

                    accurate at the material time it was published. on my part, for the reasons

                    below, this part of the defendants’ plea of justification is

                    misconceived.
83     the defendants’ argument ignored the

                    fact that the notice was inherently defective because the underlying charge was

                    bad, and held to be so on judicial review by the court of appeal. as stated, the

                    suspension order against ksp was declared to be invalid on the three broad

                    grounds set out at [16] –

                    [18] above. the defendants cannot argue that

                    the contents of the notice were factually true and accurate at the time it was

                    published. the fact remains that (a) the charge itself was illegal at the

                    outset; and (b) the process was found wanting on grounds of breaches of natural

                    justice as well as procedural impropriety in the conduct of the disciplinary

                    proceedings. this meant that the notice could and should never have been

                    published in the first place. all that the defendant is able to say is that as a

                    matter of sicc’s records: (a) sicc brought disciplinary proceedings under

                    rule 34 on the charge against ksp; (b) the club found ksp in breach of

                    rule 34; (c) the club, amongst other things, suspended her membership for

                    one year; and (d) notice of ksp’s suspension was given to members of the

                    club. based on all these facts in evidence, the defendants cannot go beyond

                    asserting that the notice is substantially true in so far as its repeats the

                    club’s conclusion that ksp was guilty

                        but it is not

                    substantially true that ksp was actually

                    guilty.
84     before moving to the next point, i should

                    comment on the legality of the charge. the court of appeal concluded in

                        kay swee pin v sicc (ca) at [81] that the

                    charge was illegal as ksp was not a member of the club at the material time and

                    could not have been charged for cheating the club under rule 34(a).

                    however, the court of appeal pointed out at [81] that the outcome would be

                    different
… if there is evidence to show that [ksp] was aware in 1992, or at

                        any time thereafter up to the time she was asked to furnish her marriage

                        certificate, that her customary marriage to nky was invalid, but did not

                        inform the club. in our view, an “act” for the purposes of r

                        34(a) would include a deliberate omission to disclose an act prejudicial to

                        the interests of the club.
we now know from ksp’s admission in the witness box that ksp and

                    nky did not undergo any customary marriage on 12 january 1982 as previously

                    contended, and she did not inform the club of this fact. if these factors had

                    been made known to the court of appeal in ca 46/2007, its conclusion as to the

                    legality of the charge would have been different.
conclusion on the justification issue
85     for the reasons given, the plea of

                    justification succeeds in relation to the meanings that i have

                found.
issue 4: whether the defendants’ plea of qualified privilege

                can succeed
86     for completeness, i now consider the defence

                    of qualified privilege should a higher tribunal take a different view on the

                    applicability of the defence of justification. for present purposes, the

                    discussions here assume that the words written in the notice are untrue. the

                    basis of the defendants’ claim to privilege is set out in para 13 of

                    the defence (amendment no 1).
the legal principles
87     the legal position is summarised in halsbury’s at para 240.155 as follows:
the defence of qualified privilege attaches to the occasion which the

                        words are published, rather than to the words themselves. it would be

                        contrary to the purposes for which qualified privilege exists if the law

                        applied an objective test of relevance to every part of the defamatory

                        matter, as a precondition of the existence of privilege. words wholly

                        unconnected with and irrelevant to the occasion may not be privileged; but

                        generally, irrelevant and unnecessary words having some relation to the

                        occasion will be within the privilege but will constitute evidence of

                        express malice.
paragraph 240.155 quoted above was recently approved and followed

                    by the court of appeal in lim eng hock peter v lin jian

                        wei [2009] sgca 48 at [34] (“peter lim (ca)).
88     the determination of whether an occasion is

                    one of qualified privilege is one of law. an occasion which may warrant the

                    invocation of the defence of qualified privilege is where the person who makes a

                    communication has an interest or a duty, legal, social or moral, to make it to

                    the person to whom it is made, and the person to whom it is so made has a

                    corresponding interest or duty to receive it (see adam v

                        ward [1917] ac 309 at 334, followed in yeo nai meng v ei-nets ltd [2004] 1 slr(r) 73;

                        halsbury’s at

                para 240.152).
89     the burden of proof is on the defendant to

                    prove that the occasion of publication is one of qualified privilege (see

                        maidstone pte ltd v takenaka corp [1992]

                    1 slr(r) 752 at [32]). however, the protection afforded by qualified

                    privilege will be lost if the publication is made with malice. the burden of

                    proof is on the plaintiff to show that the defendant, in publishing the words

                    complained of, was actuated by malice.
were the words complained of by ksp published on an occasion of

                qualified privilege?
90     the authorities show that communications and

                    adjudications between members of an association and a domestic tribunal within

                    the association have long been held to be privileged (see gatley at para 14.45).
91     in thompson v new south

                        wales branch of the british medical association

                    [1924] ac 764, the articles of association of the respondent provided

                    for the expulsion of a member by a resolution of its council at a general

                    meeting. a resolution expelling the appellant from membership was duly carried

                    by the council and confirmed by a general meeting. the resolution was then

                    subsequently communicated in writing by the secretary to the other members of

                    the association. the appellant brought an action against the respondent for

                    damages alleging, inter alia, defamation in

                    respect of a circular sent out by the respondent, containing the terms of the

                    resolution passed by the council.
92     the privy council held that the occasion of

                    the publication of the resolution was privileged and that the appellant’s

                    action in defamation failed. in this regard, the privy council held at

                    p 782:
it is quite obvious, however, that the publications relied on in these

                        three counts were made on privileged occasions. the association had

                        obviously an interest and a moral, if not legal, duty to communicate to its

                        members the information that the resolution to expel the appellant had been

                        carried, and the members had a corresponding interest in receiving the

                        information.
93     likewise, the notice in the present action is

                    an example of a communication between a domestic tribunal of an association (the

                    gc of sicc) and its members of the outcome of disciplinary proceedings involving

                    a member. the defendants had a duty to communicate to the sicc members the

                    information set out in the notice. the sicc members also have a corresponding

                    interest in the outcome of the concluded disciplinary cases involving other sicc

                    members.
94     on the evidence, the defence of qualified

                    privilege is not lost by the fact that persons other than sicc members could

                    have seen the notice on sicc’s premises. as the editors of gatley clarified at para 14.66:
[it is] a general rule that the defendant should be careful to make his

                        communication only to those persons who have a legitimate interest or duty

                        in relation to the subject matter…however, if

                            strict reciprocity were essential, society and its business could not be

                            conducted, as others without a direct interest in the

                        communication are regularly employed in helping to make the communication

                        and it would be impossible to communicate if every defamatory communication

                        had to be confined to those with a direct duty or interest in relation to

                        its subject-matter. for these reasons, communications to

                            persons without such an interest or duty are nevertheless privileged if

                            they are published reasonably, in the ordinary course of business, and

                            no more widely than is required for the effective making of the

                            communication, and if they would be privileged but for such incidental

                            publication.
95     in this case, the notice was placed on three

                    notice boards in sicc’s clubhouses. i agree with the defendants that the

                    notice boards were a practical and convenient mode of communication between sicc

                    and its members. it is sicc’s standard operating practice to put up

                    notices, such as the notice in question here, on its notice boards to summarily

                    inform sicc members of the outcome of concluded disciplinary hearings involving

                    sicc members. according to edwin lee, [d6] who is president of chinese swimming

                    club, the practice of putting up notices is common and is also adopted in the

                    chinese swimming club.
96     in my view, the posting of the notice was no

                    different from past cases involving sicc members and there is no basis for

                    saying that the publication of the notice was used for an improper purpose. in

                    the circumstances i have described, the publication of the notice was, and i so

                    find, on an occasion of qualified privilege. the fact that the notice may have

                    been seen by visitors other than sicc members on sicc’s clubhouses does

                    not defeat the defence of qualified privilege as the mode of publication of the

                    notice was on the notice boards within the clubhouses. it was practical,

                    reasonable, and did not go beyond the exigency of the occasion.
did the defendants act with malice in publishing the

                notice?
97     as stated, the burden of proof of proving

                    malice rests on ksp. honesty and good faith on the part of the defendants are

                    presumed at law and ksp has the burden of rebutting it. gatley states at para 35.27:
a defendant need not give any evidence that the words

                        complained of were published “bona fide and without prejudice”

                        for so much is presumed in his favour if the occasion is privileged.
“it is clear that it is not for the defendant to prove that he

                            was acting from a sense of duty, but for the

                                plaintiff to satisfy the jury [or judge in the context of

                            singapore] that the defendant was acting from some

                                other motive than a sense of duty.”
[emphasis added]
98     the law on malice in the context of qualified

                    privilege has been clearly set out in the leading case of horrocks v lowe [1975] ac 135 (“horrocks”), which has been adopted and cited with

                    approval by the singapore courts on numerous occasions. in abz v singapore press holdings ltd [2009]

                    4 slr(r) 648, the high court summarised the principles stated in

                        horrocks at [63]:
(a)    a defendant is entitled to the defence of

                            qualified privilege unless some dominant and improper

                                motive on its part is proved. in general, motive here equates to the use of a privileged

                            occasion for some purpose other than that for which the privilege is

                            accorded by law. it bears emphasising that in order for the defence to

                            be defeated, the desire to injure the plaintiff must be the dominant motive for the defamatory

                            publication.
(b)    as long as the defendant is acting in accordance

                            with a sense of duty or in bona fide

                            protection of his own legitimate interests, its knowledge that a

                            statement will injure the plaintiff does not destroy the defence.
(c)    if the defendant publishes untrue defamatory

                            statements recklessly, ie, without considering or caring whether these

                            statements are true or not, it will be deemed to have known that they

                            are false. in this regard, carelessness, impulsiveness or even

                            irrationality in arriving at a belief that the statements are true is

                                not to be equated with

                            recklessness.
(d)    notwithstanding a positive belief in the truth of

                            what is published, the defence will be defeated if it can be proved that

                            the defendant misused the occasion for some purpose other than that for

                            which the privilege is accorded by law.
99     with respect to d4, d5, d9, d11 and d12, it

                    was ksp’s own evidence under cross-examination at trial that they have not

                    acted with any improper motives and did not have intention to harm or injure ksp

                    in the conduct of the disciplinary proceedings against her.[note: 37] ksp’s own admissions, at the

                    very least, will clearly prevent any finding of malice as against d4, d5, d9,

                    d11 and d12. as the court of appeal observed (per

                        curiam) in nirumalan k pillay & ors v

                        a balakrishnan & ors [1997] 1 slr(r) 953 at

                    [33]:
in our opinion, where two or more persons have participated in the

                        publication of a defamatory article and all of them are sued and they rely

                        on the defence of fair comment or qualified privilege, the plaintiff, in order to defeat the defence and succeed in his claim

                            against each and every defendant must

                            prove express malice on the part of each of the defendants. if he fails to show that any one of them was

                            actuated by express malice, then the defence of that

                        defendant will succeed and he will not be

                            liable; as for the other defendants, if the plaintiff

                        succeeds in showing express malice on their part, then in the absence of any

                        other defence succeeding, they will be liable. [emphasis added]
100    

          horrocks was

                    approved and applied in peter lim (ca). applying

                    these principles to the facts of the present case, it is clear that the

                    defendants’ publication of the notice was not actuated by malice. the evidence adduced at trial shows that

                    there was never any ill will, spite, malice and/or improper motive on the part

                    of the defendants in respect of ksp in the publication of the notice. moreover,

                    it is also important to note that it was only after the court of appeal’s

                    decision in os 2125/2006 that the defendants found out that the decision of the

                    gc to suspend ksp’s membership was wrong. at the material time, the

                    defendants’ publication of the notice was in accordance with its standard

                    operating practice of informing sicc members of the outcomes of disciplinary

                    hearings.
101    the fact that notice concerned a suspension

                    order that was subsequently declared invalid by the court of appeal would not

                    undermine the defence of qualified privilege. lord diplock made clear in

                        horrocks that the protection afforded by the

                    defence of qualified privilege would be illusory if it could be forfeited by the

                    use of inaccurate language or by slopping reasoning. the court of appeal’s

                    remarks in peter lim (ca) are apposite. chan sek

                    keong cj said at [41]:
consistent with the value of reputation in society, it is not

                        surprising that the law does not countenance a defendant deliberately

                        publishing a defamatory statement by affording him the protection of

                        qualified privilege. the rationale underpinning the privilege is that

                        because the defendant has a moral, social or legal duty to disclose the

                        information and the recipient has an interest in receiving it, he should not

                        be penalised for making an honest mistake. this will be the case where the

                        defendant publishes statements which he genuinely believes to be true and

                        accurate. he cannot claim the protection of privilege, whatever his dominant

                        intention or motive may be, if he knows that what he has written or said was

                        untrue. as lord diplock said (see [36] above):
… for no sense of duty or desire to protect his own legitimate

                            interests can justify a man in telling deliberate or injurious

                            falsehoods about another, save in the exceptional case where a person

                            may be under a duty to pass on, without endorsing, defamatory reports

                            made by some other person.
102    the court of appeal’s criticism of the

                    gc’s irrational and illogical analysis was, inter

                        alia, on the improper procedural lapses which peppered the

                    disciplinary proceedings and the breach of natural justice (see [16]-[18]

                    above). there was, however, no suggestion of improper motives on the part of the

                    gc. the fact remains that the defendants held an honest belief in the

                    truthfulness of what they wrote in the notice, and they have not misused the

                    occasion for any purpose other than that for which the occasion was privileged.

                    in other words, there was no improper motive in the publication of the notice

                    (see peter lim (ca) at [38]). as i have stated,

                    the whole purpose of the notice was to inform the members of the outcome of the

                    disciplinary proceedings against one of the members of the club.
103    in the light of the overall evidence adduced

                    at trial, the evidence do not bear out ksp’s assertion that the defendants

                    were actuated by malice in the publication of the notice. therefore, the defence

                    of qualified privilege would have been available to the

                defendants.
result
104    for the reasons stated, ksp’s libel

                    action fails and is dismissed with costs.
[note: 1]4ab 1504[note: 2]4ab 1434[note: 3]4ab

                                1525[note: 4]4ab

                                1528[note: 5]4ab

                                1530[note: 6]4ab 1530[note: 7]4ab 1142[note: 8][2008] sghc 143[note: 9]defendants’ closing submissions

                                para 72[note: 10]defendants’ closing submissions

                            para 76[note: 11]plaintiff’s closing submissions, paras 47 &

                                48[note: 12]plaintiff’s closing submissions ,

                            para 56[note: 13]plaintiff’s closing submissions,

                        para 37[note: 14]plaintiff’s closing submissions,

                        para 41[note: 15]plaintiff’s closing submissions,

                                para 45[note: 16]defendants’ closing submissions,

                                para 79[note: 17]4ab

                                1506[note: 18]4ab 2038[note: 19]4ab

                                2040-2045[note: 20]4ab

                                1434[note: 21]2ab 362-363[note: 22]3ab

                                705[note: 23]3ab 706[note: 24]2ab

                                244[note: 25]transcripts of evidence

                                10 november 2009, pp 40 & 46[note: 26]defendants’ closing submissions,

                                para 49[note: 27]transcripts of evidence

                                10 november 2009, p 46[note: 28]transcripts of evidence dated 10 november 2009,

                                48[note: 29]transcripts of evidence dated

                                10 november 2009, pp 8, 45-46.[note: 30]3ab pp 667,

                        983.[note: 31]transcripts

                                of evidence dated 10 november 2009, pp

                        25-26.[note: 32]transcripts

                                of evidence dated 10 november 2009, pp

                        48-49.[note: 33]transcripts

                                of evidence dated 10 november 2009, pp

                        50-53.[note: 34]transcripts of evidence dated 10 november 2009, pp 48,

                                68-70.[note: 35]transcripts of evidence dated 10 november 2009,

                                p48[note: 36]transcripts of evidence dated 10 november 2009,

                                p46[note: 37]transcripts of evidence dated 10 november 2009, pp

                                80-81.copyright © government of singapore.