ramalingam ravinthran

      v

      attorney-general

    [2012] sgca 2case number:criminal motion no 60 of 2011decision date:10 january 2012tribunal/court:court of appealcoram:

      chan sek keong cj; 

      andrew phang boon leong ja; 

      v k rajah ja

    counsel name(s):

      m ravi (l f violet netto) for the applicant; 

      mavis chionh, teo guan siew and zhuo wenzhao (attorney-general's chambers) for the respondent.

    parties:

      ramalingam ravinthran — 

      attorney-general

    
10 january 2012judgment reserved.


        chan sek keong cj (delivering the judgment of the

                court):
introduction
1       the applicant, ramalingam ravinthran

                    (“the applicant”), was convicted after a trial before a high court

                    judge (“the trial judge”) of two charges of trafficking in

                    controlled drugs under s 5(1)(a) read with

                    s 5(2) of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2001 rev ed)

                    (“the mda”) (see public prosecutor v ramalingam

                        ravinthran

                    [2009] sghc 265 (“ramalingam

                    (hc)”)). both charges carried the mandatory death penalty

                    under s 33 of, read with the second schedule to, the mda. the applicant

                    subsequently appealed to this court, which dismissed his appeal (see ramalingam ravinthran v public

                        prosecutor [2011] sgca 14 (“ramalingam (ca)”)).
2       the applicant has now applied to this court, by

                    way of criminal motion no 60 of 2011 (“this motion”), to

                    re-open our judgment in ramalingam (ca) so as to

                    enable him to argue that the prosecution leading to his conviction in ramalingam (hc) was

                    unconstitutional. the specific ground relied on by the applicant is the alleged

                    violation of art 12(1) of the constitution of the republic of singapore

                    (1985 rev ed, 1999 reprint) (“the constitution”) which

                    occurred when the attorney-general, in his capacity as the public prosecutor,

                    decided to charge the applicant with capital offences while charging one sundar

                    arujunan (“sundar”), who was involved in the same criminal

                    enterprise, with non-capital offences. the applicant seeks the following orders

                    to remedy this alleged breach of art 12(1): (a) that the capital

                    charges against him be amended to non-capital charges; and (b) that the

                    sentence imposed by the trial judge be set aside and replaced with a suitable

                    non-capital sentence, such that there is no difference in punitive treatment

                    between him and sundar.
factual background
3       the factual background to this motion is set out

                    in ramalingam (hc) and ramalingam (ca). for present purposes, the material facts are as

                    follows. on 13 july 2006 at around 5.15pm, the applicant drove his car to

                    sri arasakesari sivan temple at sungei kadut avenue. he met sundar in the

                    compound of the temple. sundar placed a sports bag on the back seat of the

                    applicant’s car. the applicant then drove off with sundar seated in the

                    front passenger seat. after a while, sundar alighted from the car at a bus stop,

                    and the applicant drove on towards his destination. both men were separately

                    arrested shortly afterwards by officers of the central narcotics bureau

                    (“cnb”) in a planned operation. the sports bag in the

                    applicant’s car was found to contain eight blocks of vegetable matter

                    wrapped in aluminium foil and transparent plastic cling wrap. analysis done by

                    the health sciences authority showed that the blocks contained 5,560.1g of

                    cannabis and 2,078.3g of cannabis mixture. in statements taken from the

                    applicant and sundar that were adduced at the applicant’s trial, both men

                    admitted to having been previously involved in similar suspicious activities,

                    but claimed that they had no knowledge that the “things” which

                    they had delivered on those previous occasions were drugs.
the charges against the applicant and sundar
4       the applicant and sundar were charged separately

                    with drug trafficking. sundar was charged on 20 june 2007 (in criminal case

                    no 17 of 2007) with two offences. the first charge against him

                    stated:
[o]n the 13th day of july 2006 at about

                        5.20 p.m., at the sri arasakesari sivan temple, no. 25 sungei

                        kadut avenue, singapore, [you] did traffic in a controlled drug specified in

                        class ‘a’ of the first schedule to the misuse of drugs act,

                        chapter 185, to wit, by delivering to one ramalingam

                            ravinthran not less than 499.99 grams

                            of vegetable matter which was analysed and

                            found to be cannabis, without any authorisation under the

                        said act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby committed

                        an offence under section 5(1)(a) and punishable under section 33

                        of the misuse of drugs act, chapter 185. [emphasis added]
the second charge against sundar stated:
[o]n the 13thday of july 2006 at about 5.20 p.m., at the sri

                        arasakesari sivan temple, no. 25 sungei kadut avenue, singapore, [you]

                        did traffic in a controlled drug specified in class “a”

                        of the first schedule to the misuse of drugs act, chapter 185, to wit,

                            by delivering to one ramalingam ravinthran not less than 999.99 grams of vegetable matter

                            which was analysed and found to contain

                            tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol, without any

                        authorisation under the said act or the regulations made thereunder, and you

                        have thereby committed an offence under section 5(1)(a) and punishable

                        under section 33 of the misuse of drugs act, chapter 185.

                        [emphasis added]
5       the quantities of controlled drugs stated in the

                    charges against sundar were just below the

                    threshold at which they would carry the mandatory death penalty on conviction.

                    on 6 july 2007, sundar pleaded guilty to both charges in the high court and

                    was sentenced to a total of 20 years’ imprisonment and 24 strokes of the

                    cane.
6       the applicant was charged on 9 october 2007

                    (in criminal case no 29 of 2007), likewise with two offences. in contrast

                    to the charges against sundar, the quantities of controlled drugs stated in the

                    charges against the applicant met the threshold

                    which would carry the mandatory death penalty on conviction. the first charge

                    against him stated:
[o]n the 13th day of july 2006 at about 5.40 p.m., in a motorcar

                        bearing registration number sbr 4484s along pioneer road, singapore,

                        [you] did traffic in a controlled drug specified in

                        class “a” of the first schedule to the misuse of drugs

                        act, chapter 185, to wit, by having in your possession for the purpose

                        of trafficking eight blocks containing 5560.1 grams of vegetable matter

                        which was analysed and found to be cannabis, without any authorisation under

                        the said act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby

                        committed an offence under section 5(1)(a) read with section 5(2)

                        and punishable under section 33 of the misuse of drugs act,

                        chapter 185.
the second charge against the applicant stated:
[o]n the 13th day of july 2006 at about 5.40 p.m., in a motorcar

                        bearing registration number sbr 4484s along pioneer road, singapore,

                        [you] did traffic in a controlled drug specified in

                        class “a” of the first schedule to the misuse of drugs

                        act, chapter 185, to wit, by having in your possession for the purpose

                        of trafficking eight blocks containing 2078.3 grams of fragmented

                        vegetable matter which was analysed and found to contain

                        tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol, without any authorisation under the

                        said act or the regulations made thereunder, and you have thereby committed

                        an offence under section 5(1)(a) read with section 5(2) and

                        punishable under section 33 of the misuse of drugs act,

                        chapter 185.
7       at the applicant’s trial, the prosecution

                    called sundar as a witness. although sundar turned hostile on the witness stand,

                    the prosecution successfully applied under s 147(3) of the evidence act

                    (cap 97, 1997 rev ed) to admit a previous inconsistent statement which

                    he had made to the cnb and substituted it for his oral evidence. that statement

                    implicated the applicant as to his knowledge that there was cannabis in the

                    sports bag placed in his car. the trial judge convicted the applicant on the

                    basis of sundar’s statement as well as the applicant’s own

                    statements as recorded by various cnb officers.
the applicant’s judicial review proceedings
8       after the applicant’s appeal against

                    conviction and sentence was dismissed on 7 september 2010, the applicant

                    applied (via originating summons no 234 of 2011) for leave to commence

                    judicial review proceedings seeking a quashing order to quash his conviction, a

                    prohibiting order to prohibit the director of prisons from executing the death

                    sentence against him and an order that the same charges be preferred against him

                    as the charges that were preferred against sundar. the applicant’s leave

                    application was heard by a high court judge as a substantive application. at the

                    hearing, the applicant withdrew his application for a quashing order. after

                    hearing the parties, the high court judge dismissed the applicant’s

                    application for judicial review on 31 may 2011 (see ramalingam ravinthran v

                        attorney-general [2011] 4 slr 196). the applicant then

                    filed this motion on 9 september 2011.
the issues in this motion
9       this motion involves two issues – one

                    procedural and the other substantive. the procedural issue is whether this court

                    should hear this motion at this stage of the proceedings, when the applicant has

                    already exhausted his right of appeal. the substantive issue is whether, in the

                    circumstances of this case, the attorney-general violated the applicant’s

                    constitutional right to equality before the law, as guaranteed by art 12(1)

                    of the constitution, by prosecuting him for two capital offences of drug

                    trafficking while prosecuting sundar for two non-capital offences of drug

                    trafficking, even though both of them were involved in the same criminal

                    enterprise. we deal with these two issues below, beginning with the procedural

                    issue.
the procedural issue: the functus

                    officio principle and the finality principle
overview of the applicable principles
10     the procedural issue concerns the

                    applicability of two general principles to this case: the principle of functus officio and the principle of finality. the first

                    principle raises the question of whether this court is functus officio and no longer has any jurisdiction to rehear or

                    re-open any issue relating to the applicant’s conviction and sentence

                        vis-à-vis the charges brought against him (as

                    set out at [6] above). the functus officio principle, as enunciated in lim choon chye v public prosecutor [1994]

                    2 slr(r) 1024 at [8], abdullah bin a rahman v public prosecutor [1994]

                    2 slr(r) 1017 at [10] and

                        vignes s/o mourthi v public

                        prosecutor [2003] 4 slr(r) 518 at [4]–[8] (which cases will hereafter be called “the vignes line of decisions”), is that once this

                    court has rendered judgment in an appeal before it, it is functus officio in so far as that appeal is concerned. in

                        koh zhan quan tony v public prosecutor and another

                        motion [2006] 2 slr(r) 830 (“tony koh”), this court held (at [11]–[13]) that the vignes line of

                    decisions would not apply to a case where the question sought to be raised at

                    the second hearing before it was not concerned with the substantive merits of

                    the case which it decided at the first hearing, but went instead to its

                    jurisdiction to hear that case at the first hearing. for instance, if, at the

                    first hearing before it, the court of appeal decided a matter which was not

                    within its jurisdiction, there would be no decision in law on that matter, and,

                    therefore, the court would not have exhausted its jurisdiction (ie, would not be functus

                        officio) vis-à-vis that particular

                    matter (see tony koh at [22]).
11     the second principle mentioned in the

                    preceding paragraph –

                    viz, the principle of finality – is broader.

                    the basis underlying this principle is that it is generally in the public

                    interest that court judgments should be final and parties should not be allowed

                    to re-litigate issues which have already been decided by the courts. this

                    principle is expressed by the latin maxim “interest

                        rei publicae ut

                        sit finis litium”. when it is applied to civil

                    proceedings, it is subject to very narrow exceptions (see lee

                        tat development pte ltd v management corporation strata title plan

                        no 301 [2009] 1 slr(r) 875 at [72]–[73]). the finality principle also applies to criminal

                    proceedings. however, in that context, broad exceptions do apply in certain

                    circumstances, even where the offender in question has exhausted his right of

                    appeal to the final appellate court. this was the opinion of this court in

                        yong vui kong v public prosecutor [2010]

                    2 slr 192 (“yong vui kong

                        (jurisdiction)”).
12     in yong vui kong

                        (jurisdiction), this court recognised that the principle of

                        functus officio, as laid down in the vignes line of decisions, was based on the policy

                    considerations underlying the principle of finality. in the criminal context,

                    the functus officio principle is a self-limiting

                    principle applied by this court so as not to open the floodgates to frivolous

                    and unmeritorious applications for previous criminal judgments to be reviewed.

                    however, the relevant statutory provisions governing criminal appeals

                    (previously pt v of the supreme court of judicature act (cap 322,

                    2007 rev ed) and now div 1 of pt xx of the criminal procedure

                    code 2010 (act 15 of 2010)) do not expressly state when the court is

                        functus officio.
13     in this light, it was observed in yong vui kong (jurisdiction) that where this court,

                    being the final appellate court in this jurisdiction, had made a mistake of fact

                    or law which had caused a person to be convicted and punished, it must have the

                    power to correct its own mistake so as to avoid a miscarriage of justice. at

                        [15]–[16] of yong vui kong

                        (jurisdiction), this court, after discussing (inter alia) the vignes line of

                    decisions, said (per chan sek

                    keong cj):
15    we note … that the main justifications of

                            these cases, that the court is functus

                            after it has delivered judgment on the case, rest on the public interest

                            in having finality of litigation and the absence of an express provision

                            in the scja [ie, the supreme court of

                            judicature act (cap 322, 2007 rev ed)] to empower the court to

                            review its decisions. the first justification is bolstered by the fear

                            of abuse of the judicial process and the floodgates argument (an

                            argument which was also made to the [high court] [j]udge in this case).

                            in our view, the finality principle should not be applied strictly in

                            criminal cases where the life or liberty of the accused is at stake as

                            it would subvert the true value of the judicial process, which is to

                            ensure, as far as possible, that the guilty are convicted and the

                            innocent are acquitted. the floodgates argument should not be allowed to

                            wash away both the guilty and the innocent. suppose, in a case where the

                            appellate court dismisses an appeal against conviction and the next day

                            the appellant manages to discover some evidence or a line of authorities

                            that show that he has been wrongly convicted, is the court to say that

                            it is functus and, therefore, the

                            appellant should look to the executive for a pardon or a clemency? in

                            circumstances where there is sufficient material on which the court can

                            say that there has been a miscarriage of justice, this court should be

                            able to correct such mistakes.
16    another argument which this court should take into

                            account (but which has never been addressed to the court), is that

                            art 93 of the constitution vests the judicial power of singapore in

                            the supreme court. the judicial power is exercisable only where the

                            court has jurisdiction, but where the scja does not expressly state when

                            its jurisdiction in a criminal appeal ends, there is no reason for this

                            court to circumscribe its own jurisdiction to render itself incapable of

                            correcting a miscarriage of justice at any time. we have not heard the

                            public prosecutor on this point, and it will be necessary to do so in an

                            appropriate case in the future.
the parties’ arguments on the procedural issue
14     before us, counsel for the applicant,

                    mr m ravi (“mr ravi”), relied on [15] of yong vui kong

                        (jurisdiction) in support of his argument that we should hear

                    this motion. he also referred to law society of singapore v

                        tan guat neo phyllis [2008] 2 slr(r) 239

                        (“phyllis tan”) at [149]

                    (reproduced at [17] below), where the court

                    of 3 judges stated that the attorney-general’s prosecutorial discretion

                    could not be exercised for an extraneous purpose or in breach of constitutional

                    rights.
15     in reply, state counsel appearing for the

                    attorney-general, ms mavis chionh (“ms chionh”),

                    contended that this court was indeed functus

                        officio after making its decision in ramalingam (ca), and argued that the vignes line of decisions was applicable to this motion as the

                    exception established in tony koh was not

                    applicable. ms chionh also contended that yong vui kong

                        (jurisdiction) was not applicable as, unlike the scenario

                    described at [15] of that decision, the

                    applicant had not raised any new evidence or new argument of law that would show

                    that he had been wrongfully convicted. ms chionh further submitted that the

                    applicant must show a prima facie case of

                    unconstitutionality before this court could re-open its judgment in ramalingam (ca).
our decision on the procedural issue
16     as mentioned at [2] above, this motion is an attempt to re-open a conviction (in

                        ramalingam (hc)) which has been unsuccessfully

                    appealed against (in ramalingam (ca)). the

                    substantive issue in this motion (as set out at [9] above) concerns a constitutional point which the applicant

                    could have raised during his trial in the high court and also at the hearing of

                    his appeal against the trial judge’s decision. the applicant had two

                    opportunities to raise that constitutional point, but did not avail himself of

                    either of them. in the circumstances, the applicant could have had no cause to

                    complain if we had declined to hear this motion on the basis that he had

                    exhausted all his rights to due process and had ceased to have any standing to

                    challenge before a court of law the legality of his prosecution for the two

                    capital offences set out at [6]

                above.
17     be that as it may, because this motion

                    involves capital offences, we decided to hear the applicant’s arguments on

                    why we should not dismiss this motion outright and the prosecution’s

                    response to those arguments. after considering the arguments of the parties, we

                    decided to hear this motion as the substantive issue in this motion concerns a

                    constitutional point – namely, the interaction between the prosecutorial

                    discretion in art 35(8) of the constitution and the right to equality

                    before the law conferred by art 12(1) thereof – which, in our view,

                    needs to be examined in greater detail and clarified in the public interest. our

                    decision (apropos the procedural issue in this motion) to hear this case accords

                    with our decision in yong vui kong (jurisdiction),

                    where the need to settle the constitutionality (or otherwise) of the mandatory

                    death penalty for the offence of trafficking in more than 15g of diamorphine was

                    the critical factor behind this court’s decision to hear the

                    applicant’s arguments in that case notwithstanding that he had earlier

                    withdrawn his appeal against his conviction for that offence (see [28] of yong vui kong

                        (jurisdiction)). in deciding that we would hear this motion, we

                    also endorsed the following observations made by the court of 3 judges in

                        phyllis tan at [149] (per chan cj):
the discretionary power to prosecute under the constitution is not

                        absolute. it must be exercised in good faith for the purpose [for which] it

                        is intended, ie, to convict and punish

                        offenders, and not for an extraneous purpose. as the court of appeal said in

                            chng suan tze v minister for home affairs

                        [1988] 2 slr(r) 525 at [86], all legal powers, even a

                        constitutional power, have legal limits. the notion of a subjective or

                        unfettered discretion is contrary to the rule of law. in our view, the

                        exercise of the prosecutorial discretion is subject to judicial review in

                        two situations: first, where the prosecutorial power is abused, ie, where it is exercised in bad faith for an

                        extraneous purpose, and second, where its exercise contravenes

                        constitutional protections and rights (for example, a discriminatory

                        prosecution which results in an accused being deprived of his right to

                        equality under the law and the equal protection of the law under art 12

                        of the constitution). authority for this proposition may be found in

                            teh cheng poh v public prosecutor [1979]

                        1 mlj 50 (“teh cheng

                        poh”). in that case, although the privy council recognised

                        that the unconstitutional exercise of prosecutorial discretion could be

                        challenged, it held that there was no material on the

                            facts of that case on which to found an argument that the

                        attorney-general [of malaysia] had exercised his discretion unlawfully.

                            teh cheng poh has been followed by the

                        court of appeal in two cases, viz, sim min teck v pp [1987] slr(r) 65 and

                            thiruselvam s/o

                            nagaratnam v pp [2001] 1 slr(r) 362. [emphasis in

                        original]
as stated in this passage, even though the prosecutorial power is a

                    constitutional power under art 35(8) of the constitution, it is not immune

                    to judicial correction where it has been exercised arbitrarily or in breach of

                    constitutionally-protected rights. an arbitrary exercise of the prosecutorial

                    power would be ultra vires art 35(8), while a

                    prosecution in breach of constitutionally-protected rights would be

                    unconstitutional. in intervening in such cases, the court would not be intruding

                    on the prosecutorial power (as stated in phyllis

                        tan at [144], which is set out at [43] below).
the substantive issue: the application of article 12(1) of the

                constitution in the context of the prosecutorial discretion
the principles established by the authorities
18     moving now to the substantive issue in this

                    motion (as described at [9] above), before we

                    consider the parties’ arguments on this issue, it is useful that we

                    examine the principles established in certain cases where art 12(1) of the

                    constitution was interpreted and applied. these cases consist of the decision in

                        ong ah chuan and another v public prosecutor

                    [1979–1980] slr(r) 710 (“ong ah

                        chuan”), which the applicant has cited as his main

                    authority in relation to the substantive issue, and a trio of decisions relied

                    upon by the attorney-general in response, namely, teh cheng

                        poh v public prosecutor [1979] 1 mlj 50

                        (“teh cheng poh”), sim min teck v public prosecutor

                    [1987] slr(r) 65 (“sim min

                    teck”) and thiruselvam s/o nagaratnam v public prosecutor [2001]

                    1 slr(r) 362 (“thiruselvam”). in our view, this examination of the case

                    authorities will show that the applicant’s case in this motion, which

                    concerns the interaction and the potential tension between the constitutional

                    prosecutorial power in art 35(8) and the right to equality before the law

                    under art 12(1), has novel elements. we should add that even though

                        ong ah chuan, sim min

                        teck and thiruselvam concern

                    predecessor versions of the constitution (as defined at [2] above), for ease of discussion, we will likewise refer to

                    these predecessor versions as “the constitution”.
the decision in ong ah chuan
19     we consider first the decision in ong ah chuan. in that case, the appellants contended

                    that the legislated mandatory sentence of death for trafficking in more than a

                    prescribed amount (viz, 15g) of diamorphine

                    (heroin) was inherently contrary to art 12(1) of the constitution. the

                    privy council (per lord diplock) responded to

                    this argument as follows:
32    … as their lordships understood the argument

                            presented to them on behalf of the appellants, it was that the mandatory

                            nature of the sentence, in the case of an offence so broadly drawn as

                            that of trafficking created by s 3 of the drugs act [ie, the misuse of drugs act 1973 (act 5 of

                            1973)], rendered it arbitrary since it debarred the court in punishing

                            offenders from discriminating between them according to their individual

                            blameworthiness. this, it was contended, was arbitrary and not

                            “in accordance with law” as their lordships have construed

                            that phrase in art 9(1); alternatively it offends against the

                            principle of equality before the law entrenched in the constitution by

                            art 12(1), since it compels the court to condemn to the highest

                            penalty of death an addict who has gratuitously supplied an addict

                            friend with 15g of heroin from his own private store, and to inflict a

                            lesser punishment upon a professional dealer caught selling for

                            distribution to many addicts a total of 14.99g.
…
34    in order to dispose of the appellants’

                            argument their lordships do not find it necessary to embark upon a broad

                            analysis of what the constitutional requirements of “equality

                            before the law” and “the equal protection of the

                            law” involve in contexts other than that of criminal laws which

                            provide for mandatory penalties or mandatory limits upon penalties to be

                            imposed upon the offenders convicted of particular crimes.
35    all criminal law involves the classification of

                            individuals for the purposes of punishment, since it affects those

                            individuals only in relation to whom there exists a defined set of

                            circumstances – the conduct and, where relevant, the state of mind

                            that constitute the ingredients of an offence. equality before the law and equal protection of the law require

                                that like should be compared with like. what art 12(1) of the

                                constitution assures to the individual is the right to equal

                                treatment with other individuals in similar circumstances. it

                                prohibits laws which require that some individuals within a single

                                class should be treated by way of punishment more harshly than

                                others; it does not forbid discrimination in punitive

                            treatment between one class of individuals and another class in relation

                            to which there is some difference in the circumstances of the offence

                            that has been committed.
…
39    wherever a criminal law provides for a mandatory

                            sentence for an offence there is a possibility that there may be

                            considerable variation in moral blameworthiness, despite the similarity

                            in legal guilt of offenders upon whom the same mandatory sentence must

                            be passed. in the case of murder, a crime that is often committed in the

                            heat of passion, the likelihood of this is very real: it is perhaps more

                            theoretical than real in the case of large-scale trafficking in drugs, a

                            crime of which the motive is cold calculated greed. but art 12(1) of the constitution is not concerned with equal

                                punitive treatment for equal moral blameworthiness; it is concerned

                                with equal punitive treatment for similar legal

                            guilt.
[emphasis added]
20     the above statements were made in the context

                    of criminal statutes which provide for mandatory death sentences. the privy

                    council’s statements merely set out the general criteria for determining

                    whether a particular statute of this nature violates the constitutional

                    guarantee of equality before the law. the specific statute under consideration

                    in ong ah chuan, viz, the misuse of drugs act 1973 (act 5 of 1973) (“the

                    mda 1973”), prescribed the mandatory death penalty for trafficking in

                    more than a prescribed quantity of certain controlled drugs. the issue before

                    the privy council was whether the relevant provisions of the mda 1973 were

                    arbitrary in mandating the death penalty for trafficking in 15g or more of

                    heroin, but not for trafficking in less than 15g of heroin. the case was

                        not concerned with the constitutionality of

                    the attorney-general’s exercise of the prosecutorial discretion (which is

                    the complaint of the applicant in this motion). the test of what equality before

                    the law requires is not necessarily the same in both situations.
the decision in teh cheng poh
21     in contrast to ong ah

                        chuan, teh cheng poh (cited at

                        [18] above) directly concerned the

                    constitutionality of an exercise of the prosecutorial discretion vis-à-vis the protection of equality before the law

                    enshrined in art 8(1) of the federal constitution of malaysia

                    (1970 reprint) (“the malaysian constitution”), which

                    corresponds to art 12(1) of the constitution. in that case, the appellant

                    was charged under s 57(1) of the internal security act 1960 (act 82,

                    1972 rev ed) (m’sia) (“the isa 1960”) with being in

                    unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. at that time, there was another

                    law, viz, the arms act 1960 (act no 21 of

                    1960) (m’sia) (“the arms act 1960”) read with the firearms

                    (increased penalties) act 1971 (act 37 of 1971) (m’sia) (“the

                    firearms (increased penalties) act 1971”), under which the appellant

                    could have been charged. the offence under the isa 1960 was a capital offence,

                    whereas the offence under the arms act 1960 read with the firearms (increased

                    penalties) act 1971 was not. the appellant was prosecuted under the isa 1960,

                    convicted and sentenced to death. before the privy council, the appellant argued

                    that the malaysian attorney-general’s decision to prosecute him for a

                    capital offence was a violation of art 8(1) of the malaysian

                    constitution.
22     the privy council rejected this argument. at

                    56 of teh cheng poh, their lordships (per lord diplock) said:
… under the common law system of administration of criminal justice

                        a prosecuting authority has a discretion whether to institute proceedings at

                        all and, if so, with what offence to charge the accused. such a discretion

                        is conferred upon the attorney general of malaysia by article 145(3) of

                        the [malaysian] constitution …
there are many factors which a prosecuting authority may properly take

                        into account in exercising its discretion as to whether to charge a person

                        at all, or, where the information available to it discloses the ingredients

                        of a greater as well as a lesser offence, as to whether to charge the

                        accused with the greater or the lesser. the existence of those factors to

                        which the prosecuting authority may properly have regard and the relative

                        weight to be attached to each of them may vary enormously between one case

                        and another. all that equality before the law requires,

                            is that the cases of all potential defendants to criminal charges shall

                            be given unbiassed [sic]

                            consideration by the prosecuting authority and that

                            decisions whether or not to prosecute in a particular case for a

                            particular offence should not be dictated by some irrelevant

                            consideration.
if indeed the attorney general [of malaysia] was possessed of a discretion

                        to choose between prosecuting the appellant for an offence [under]

                        section 57(1) of the [isa 1960], or for an offence under the arms act

                        [1960] … and the firearms (increased penalties) act [1971], …

                        there is no material on which to found an argument that

                            in the instant case he exercised it unlawfully. but, in their

                        lordships’ view, although he had a choice whether to charge the

                        appellant with an offence of unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition

                        at all instead of proceeding with a charge of armed robbery (which was also

                        brought against the appellant but not proceeded with), once he decided to

                        charge the appellant with unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition he

                        had no option but to frame the charge under the [isa 1960].
[emphasis added]
23     the statements of the privy council in this

                    passage on what the constitutional requirement of equality before the law

                    entailed were directed specifically towards the exercise of the prosecutorial

                    discretion. the privy council considered the constitutional status of the

                    malaysian attorney-general’s prosecutorial discretion under

                    art 145(3) of the malaysian constitution (corresponding to art 35(8)

                    of the constitution). in the light of that status, their lordships found that

                    the protection of equality before the law only required the malaysian

                    attorney-general to give unbiased consideration to all offenders in criminal

                    cases, and to be mindful not to take into account irrelevant considerations in

                    exercising his prosecutorial discretion.
24     the privy council in teh

                        cheng poh was not addressing a situation where two offenders were

                    involved in the same criminal enterprise (as in the present case). in general,

                    like cases must be treated alike with respect to all offenders involved in the

                    same criminal conduct. if there is evidence that a and b have committed murder,

                    and a is charged with murder, then, all other things being

                        equal, b should be charged with murder as well. likewise, if the

                    evidence indicates that a and b have committed culpable homicide not amounting

                    to murder, and a is charged with that offence, then (if all other things are

                    equal) b should be charged with the same offence. an unbiased consideration of

                    a’s and b’s respective cases, if the circumstances of the two cases

                    are identical, should lead to the same prosecutorial decision being taken in

                    respect of a and b. this is what art 12(1) of the constitution requires in

                    the context of prosecutorial decisions. but, as the privy council acknowledged

                    in teh cheng poh (consistent with the established

                    position at common law), the prosecution is entitled and obliged to take into

                    account many factors in deciding whether a and/or b should be charged with

                    murder or a lesser offence (eg, culpable homicide

                    not amounting to murder) or no offence at all. relevant factors for the

                    prosecution’s consideration in making prosecutorial decisions include the

                    available evidence, public interest considerations, the personal circumstances

                    of the offender, the offender’s degree of culpability, etc. where these factors apply differently to different

                    offenders, this would justify differential treatment between them. the only

                    qualifications stated in teh cheng poh are that

                    there must be no bias on the prosecution’s part and irrelevant

                    considerations must not be taken into account.
25     in applying the aforesaid criteria to the

                    facts of teh cheng poh, the privy council observed

                    (at 56) that “there [was] no material on which to found an argument that

                    in the instant case [the malaysian attorney-general] exercised [the

                    prosecutorial discretion] unlawfully”. in other words, the privy council

                    stated that a mere allegation that the malaysian attorney-general had exercised

                    his prosecutorial power unlawfully, unsupported by evidence, could not engage

                    art 8(1) of the malaysian constitution. although the actual outcome in

                        teh cheng poh was ultimately based on other

                    grounds, it was implicit in this finding that if the appellant had somehow been

                    able to produce evidence that the attorney-general of malaysia had not given

                    unbiased consideration to his case or had taken into account irrelevant

                    considerations in deciding to charge him with a capital offence, art 8(1)

                    of the malaysian constitution would have been infringed.
26     hence, teh cheng

                        poh stands for the principle that (in our local context) the

                    attorney-general may not exercise his prosecutorial power under art 35(8)

                    of the constitution in breach of art 12(1) (or, for that matter, in breach

                    of any other fundamental liberty set out in pt iv of the constitution)

                    – but, if the offender alleges such a breach has occurred in his case, the

                    burden lies on him to produce evidence of the alleged breach. on the facts of

                        teh cheng poh, unless direct proof of the

                    prosecution’s decision-making process in the appellant’s case

                    somehow came to light, the appellant would only have been able to show prima facie impropriety by producing evidence that

                    another offender in similar circumstances had been prosecuted for a non-capital

                    offence.
27     that the burden of proof lies on the offender

                    in this regard is a wholly trite proposition that is reflected in s 103(1)

                    of the evidence act, which states that “[w]hoever desires any court to

                    give judgment as to any legal right or liability, dependent on the existence of

                    facts which he asserts, must prove that those facts exist”. in

                    constitutional challenges to the prosecutorial discretion based on an alleged

                    breach of one or more of the fundamental liberties enshrined in the

                    constitution, it is only when enough evidence is adduced to show a prima facie breach that the evidential burden will be

                    shifted to the attorney-general to justify his prosecutorial

                decision.
28     however, once the offender shows, on the

                    evidence before the court, that there is a prima

                        facie breach of a fundamental liberty (ie, that the prosecution has a case to answer), the prosecution

                    will indeed be required to justify its prosecutorial decision to the court. if

                    it fails to do so, it will be found to be in breach of the fundamental liberty

                    concerned. at that stage, the prosecution will not be able to rely on its

                    discretion under art 35(8) of the constitution, without more, as a

                    justification for its prosecutorial decision.
29     it should be noted that the decision in

                        teh cheng poh was concerned with a single

                    offender whose criminal act was an offence under two different statutory regimes

                    which prescribed two different punishments (one capital and the other

                    non-capital). hence, although the principle established in teh cheng poh (ie, that the

                    prosecution, in exercising its prosecutorial decision, must give unbiased

                    consideration to all relevant factors with respect to all offenders and must not

                    take into account irrelevant considerations) is applicable to all prosecutions,

                    whether concerning one or several offenders, it does not specifically address

                    the application of art 12(1) in cases like the present which concern

                    differential treatment of two offenders involved in the same criminal enterprise

                    (in this case, drug trafficking).
the decision in sim min teck
30     the decision in teh cheng

                        poh was followed by this court in sim min

                        teck (cited at [18] above).

                    in that case, the appellant, sim min teck (“sim”), was charged

                    with murder committed in the course of a robbery and was convicted after a

                    trial. in contrast, his accomplice, beh meng chai (“beh”), was

                    charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder (to which he pleaded

                    guilty). at the trial, beh testified that it was sim and another person, chng

                    meng joo (“chng”), who had inflicted the injuries that caused the

                    death of one of the victims (see sim min teck at

                        [6]). at the hearing of sim’s

                    appeal, this court found that there was overwhelming evidence that sim, beh and

                    chng had fatally stabbed the two victims in circumstances which amounted to

                    murder by one or more of them, and that they had done so in furtherance of a

                    common intention to commit armed robbery and to use knives if necessary. on this

                    finding of fact, all three of them could have been liable for

                murder.
31     sim argued that his prosecution for murder

                    violated art 12(1) of the constitution since beh had been charged with a

                    lesser offence even though he (sim) and beh had committed the same criminal acts

                    in furtherance of a common intention. this court rejected the argument. at

                        [9] of sim min

                        teck, this court (per wee chong

                    jin cj) explained:
… [i]t was contended on behalf of the appellant

                            [ie, sim] that because beh had been

                        charged on the same facts with the lesser offence, the appellant had been

                        discriminated against contrary to art 12(1) of the constitution

                        … which states that “all persons are equal before the law and

                        entitled to the equal protection of the law”. we rejected this

                        contention. the attorney-general of singapore is by art 35(8) of the

                        constitution given power, exercisable at his discretion to institute,

                        conduct or discontinue any proceedings for any offence. as was said by

                        lord diplock when delivering the judgment of the privy council in

                            teh cheng poh … at 56 of the

                        discretion exercisable by the attorney-general of malaysia under

                        art 145(3) of the malaysian constitution which is in

                            pari materia with our

                        art 35(8):
there are many factors which a prosecuting authority may properly take

                            into account in exercising its discretion as to whether to charge a

                            person at all, or, where the information available to it discloses the

                            ingredients of a greater as well as a lesser offence, as to whether to

                            charge the accused with the greater or the lesser. the existence of

                            those factors to which the prosecuting authority may properly have

                            regard and the relative weight to be attached to each of them may vary

                            enormously between one case and another. all that equality before the

                            law requires, is that the cases of all potential defendants to criminal

                            charges shall be given unbiased consideration by the prosecuting

                            authority and that decisions whether or not to prosecute in a particular

                            case for a particular offence should not be dictated by some irrelevant

                            consideration.
32     with respect, this court, in rejecting

                    sim’s argument that he had been denied equality before the law, did not

                    seem to have recognised that the facts in sim min

                        teck were quite different from those in teh

                        cheng poh – alternatively, if it did recognise the factual

                    differences, it did not regard those differences as important. in our view, the

                    factual situation in sim min teck (in contrast to

                    that in teh cheng poh) called for a deeper

                    analysis of the interaction between the right to equality before the law under

                    art 12(1) and the prosecutorial power in art 35(8). unlike the

                    scenario in teh cheng poh, this court was faced in

                        sim min teck with two apparently equally

                    culpable offenders, one of whom had been charged with and convicted of a more

                    serious (capital) offence than the other. in relying on the passage from 56 of

                        teh cheng poh (as set out in the above quote

                    from [9] of sim min

                        teck), this court should have asked itself whether the evidence

                    before it, including the very fact of the differentiated charges against sim and

                    beh, was sufficient to raise a prima facie case of

                    a possible infringement of art 12(1). this court did not do so, but instead

                    dismissed sim’s argument by applying the reasoning in teh cheng poh without any regard for the distinguishing facts in

                        sim min teck. it is not clear whether this

                    court, in simply quoting the aforesaid passage from teh cheng

                        poh, was dismissing sim’s argument because of the width of

                    the attorney-general’s prosecutorial discretion (which was the reason it

                    actually gave), or because sim had produced no evidence that the

                    attorney-general had exercised his prosecutorial discretion unlawfully (which

                    was the reason set out in the third paragraph of the quote from teh cheng poh reproduced at [22] above). it is therefore not possible to tell what the true

                        ratio of sim min

                        teck was, although (as discussed at [78] below) the fact that beh agreed to give evidence against

                    sim might well have justified the attorney-general’s decision to bring

                    different charges against the two men.
the decision in thiruselvam
33     the next case where art 12(1) of the

                    constitution was invoked as a defence to a prosecution was thiruselvam (cited at [18]

                    above). the facts of that case were as follows. in a sting operation, one

                    katheraven s/o gopal (“katheraven”) was arrested after he offered

                    to sell 807.6g of cannabis and 115g of cannabis mixture to an undercover officer

                    from the cnb (“sgt andrew”). prior to the sale, katheraven

                    had made four successive outgoing calls to the appellant, thiruselvam s/o

                    nagaratnam (“thiruselvam”), on the latter’s pager. after

                    katheraven’s arrest, thiruselvam made altogether four calls to

                    katheraven’s handphone, which were intercepted and answered by a cnb

                    officer. in the course of those calls, thiruselvam said, “[i]f the thing

                    is taken, the money must be paid” (see thiruselvam at [6]). the

                    cnb officer arranged to meet thiruselvam to pay him the money for the drugs.

                    thiruselvam was arrested on his way to receive the money. thiruselvam was

                    charged with a capital offence, ie, abetting the

                    trafficking of 807.6g of cannabis (the actual quantity of cannabis found in

                    katheraven’s possession), while katheraven was charged with two

                    non-capital offences, one of which was for trafficking in “not more than

                    500g and not less than 300g of cannabis” (see thiruselvam at [28]).
34     at the trial, katheraven, having earlier

                    pleaded guilty to the two non-capital charges against him for supplying the

                    drugs to sgt andrew, was a witness for the prosecution (see thiruselvam at [14]). in his evidence, he completely exonerated thiruselvam

                    from any involvement in the supply or sale of the drugs. however, the trial

                    judge admitted (pursuant to s 147(3) of the evidence act)

                    katheraven’s voluntary statements which implicated thiruselvam in the

                    commission of the offence charged and convicted thiruselvam.
35     thiruselvam appealed against his conviction on

                    the ground that, inter alia, the capital charge

                    against him infringed art 12(1) of the constitution since katheraven, who

                    was the main offender and therefore at least equally guilty, had been prosecuted

                    for two non-capital charges. the argument was rejected. this court (per l p thean ja) first noted (at

                        [30]) that “[a] point similar

                    to the one under consideration was decided by the privy council in teh cheng poh”, and, further (at [31]), that “[a] more direct authority

                    on the point [was] the case of sim min

                    teck”. thean ja went on to find as follows (at [32]):
it is true that in sim min teck … the

                        accused was one of the main offenders and the accomplice played a lesser role in the commission of the offence of

                        murder. in the instant case, the position is the

                            reverse: [thiruselvam] was only an abettor of katheraven, the

                        person who committed the main offence. to that extent, this case is slightly

                        different from sim min teck. however, this difference is immaterial and does not detract

                            from the weight of that authority. the

                            principle remains the same. the prosecution has a wide discretion to

                            determine what charge or charges should be preferred against any

                            particular offender, and to proceed on charges of different severity as

                            between different participants of the same criminal acts. in

                        this case, it has a discretion to choose between preferring a charge against

                        [thiruselvam] for abetment of trafficking in a quantity which carries the

                        capital punishment and preferring one for abetment of trafficking in a

                        quantity which does not. in our judgment, there was no breach of art 12

                        of the constitution. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
36     in thiruselvam,

                    this court, just as it did in sim min teck, merely

                    referred to teh cheng poh and, without any

                    reference to the particular facts of the case before it, applied the general

                    principle that the prosecution had a wide discretion to determine what charge or

                    charges should be preferred against an offender (see [32] of thiruselvam). we have already commented earlier (at [32] above) on such an uncritical approach in our

                    discussion of sim min teck. in fact, in thiruselvam, this court went even further (compared to

                    the approach which it took in sim min teck) and

                    held that the prosecutorial discretion under art 35(8) of the constitution

                    was wide enough to entitle the attorney-general to charge thiruselvam with a

                    capital offence and katheraven with two non-capital offences without violating

                    art 12(1), even though (so this court

                    appeared to have found) thiruselvam had played a lesser

                        role.
37     in our view, this court’s decision in

                        thiruselvam would have been difficult to

                    defend if thiruselvam had indeed played a lesser role. it is contrary to any

                    notion of justice that (all other things being equal) a less culpable offender

                    should be charged with a more serious offence (and subjected to a more serious

                    punishment) than a more culpable offender when both are involved in the same

                    criminal enterprise, especially when one offence is a non-capital offence and

                    the other is a capital offence. if all other things had been equal between

                    thiruselvam and katheraven, the attorney-general should not have exercised his

                    prosecutorial power differentially as between them – to do so would have

                    been prima facie either arbitrary or biased, and

                    therefore contrary to art 12(1). once this court found that thiruselvam was

                    less culpable than katheraven (which it appeared to have done), if it saw no

                    other legitimate reason for differentiation between the two men, it ought to

                    have found that a prima facie breach of

                    art 12(1) of the constitution was made out with respect to

                    thiruselvam’s prosecution, and it should have required the prosecution to

                    justify its decision or be found to be in breach of art 12(1) (following

                    the approach described at [28]

                    above).
38     that said, in our view, the facts in thiruselvam, if properly evaluated, could have justified

                    the differentiated charging of thiruselvam and katheraven. the evidence in that

                    case showed that thiruselvam had instructed katheraven to pay him the proceeds

                    from the sale of the drugs upon the successful delivery of those drugs.

                    thiruselvam was thus either katheraven’s controller or supplier in

                    relation to the latter’s drug trafficking. if, in this situation,

                    thiruselvam occupied a higher or more significant position in the supply chain

                    of illegal drugs, then his criminal activities would have been more significant

                    in terms of the potential harm caused to society. in comparison, katheraven

                    would have been a mere courier. thus, from a policy perspective, thiruselvam

                    could be said to have been more culpable an offender than katheraven in the

                    context of combating drug trafficking in singapore.
39     in this regard, if the court in thiruselvam did indeed suggest that thiruselvam was less

                    culpable than katheraven because the criminal act of an abettor was less

                    culpable than that of the substantive offender, then the court was, with

                    respect, mistaken because it would be contrary to s 109 of the penal code

                    (cap 224, 2008 rev ed), which provides that the offence of abetment

                    generally carries the same punishment as the substantive offence if there is no

                    express punishment provision in the penal code for the abetment offence. in the

                    context of anti-drug trafficking enforcement policy, the abettor in thiruselvam (viz,

                    thiruselvam) would have posed a greater danger to the public welfare than the

                    actual drug trafficker (viz, katheraven). on this

                    basis, that thiruselvam was charged with an offence carrying a more severe

                    punishment than the punishment for the offences charged against katheraven could

                    not be said to have been a violation of art 12(1).
summary of the authorities
40     we can now summarise the applicability of the

                    four cases which we have examined above to this motion in the following manner.

                        ong ah chuan is not applicable as it was

                    concerned with the application of art 12(1) of the constitution to

                    legislation, and not to the exercise of the prosecutorial discretion. while

                        teh cheng poh did concern the scope of

                    art 12(1) in the prosecutorial context, it is not directly relevant to the

                    present case as it was concerned with the exercise of the prosecutorial

                    discretion in relation to a single offender whose acts were punishable under two

                    different statutory regimes carrying different punishments. in contrast to

                        teh cheng poh, sim min

                        teck was concerned with the prosecutorial discretion to

                    differentiate between the charges against two offenders who were, in law, liable

                    for the same criminal acts (committed in furtherance of a common intention).

                    however, this court applied teh cheng poh

                    uncritically without considering the material difference between the factual

                    situations in the two cases. similarly, although thiruselvam was concerned with a factual situation that was

                    essentially the same as that in sim min teck, this

                    court (just as it did in sim min teck) proceeded

                    on the basis that teh cheng poh, despite being

                    concerned with a different factual scenario, could be directly applied to

                    dispose of the case.
41     it is important to note that in sim min teck, this court did not decide that the

                    prosecution could never contravene art 12(1) in exercising its

                    prosecutorial discretion in a particular case. on the contrary, it recognised,

                    by quoting from 56 of teh cheng poh, that there

                    could be such a contravention. in contrast, this court went further in thiruselvam (as stated above at [36]) and, in so doing, almost appeared to have held that no

                    exercise of the prosecutorial discretion could possibly breach art 12(1)

                    because of the width of that discretion. in our view, this is not the law (as

                    the court of 3 judges stated in phyllis tan at

                    [149] (reproduced at [17] above)). if it

                    were the law, the prosecutorial discretion would override the fundamental

                    liberties conferred by pt iv of the constitution. this outcome is not

                    acceptable because an exercise of an executive decision-making power, even one

                    with a constitutional status, cannot be allowed to override a fundamental

                    liberty enshrined in the constitution.
42     in the circumstances, although the four cases

                    discussed above contain some relevant general principles, none of them contains

                    legal reasoning which we can directly apply in determining whether the

                    differentiation between the charges against the applicant and those against

                    sundar in the present case is a breach of art 12(1). we will therefore have

                    to address the substantive issue raised by the applicant by referring to first

                    principles.
the constitutional status of the prosecutorial power
43     as mentioned earlier, the prosecutorial power

                    is a constitutional power vested in the attorney-general pursuant to

                    art 35(8) of the constitution. it is constitutionally equal in status to

                    the judicial power set out in art 93. in phyllis

                        tan, the court of 3 judges referred to the judicial power in

                    art 93 and the prosecutorial power in art 35(8), and said at [144]

                        (per chan cj):
… these two provisions expressly separate the prosecutorial

                        function from the judicial function, and give equal status to both

                        functions. hence, both organs have an equal status under the constitution,

                        and neither may interfere with each other’s functions or intrude into

                        the powers of the other, subject only to the constitutional power of the

                        court to prevent the prosecutorial power from being exercised

                        unconstitutionally. indeed, this is not even a true

                        “interference” inasmuch as the exercise of a function

                        unconstitutionally is, in effect, not an exercise of that function at all

                        and which it is therefore the duty of the court (pursuant to the

                        constitution itself) to prevent.
the presumption of constitutionality in relation to the prosecutorial

                power
44     in view of the co-equal status of the two

                    aforesaid constitutional powers, the separation of powers doctrine requires the

                    courts not to interfere with the exercise of the prosecutorial discretion unless

                    it has been exercised unlawfully. the prosecutorial power is part of the

                    executive power, although, under existing constitutional practice, it is

                    independently exercised by the attorney-general as the public prosecutor. in

                    view of his high office, the courts should proceed on the basis that when the

                    attorney-general initiates a prosecution against an offender (regardless of

                    whether he was acting alone or in concert with other offenders), the

                    attorney-general does so in accordance with the law. in other words, the courts

                    should presume that the attorney-general’s prosecutorial decisions are

                    constitutional or lawful until they are shown to be otherwise.
45     this presumption would be consistent with the

                    constitutional standing of the office of attorney-general. in yong vui kong v attorney-general [2011] 2 slr 1189

                        (“yong vui kong (clemency)”),

                    one of the issues raised before this court was whether the constitutional

                    clemency process was justiciable. in discussing this issue, this court

                    considered the possibility of unconscious bias or inadvertent errors on the part

                    of, inter alios, the attorney-general in

                    submitting his opinion to the cabinet under art 22p(2) of the constitution

                        vis-à-vis an offender who had been sentenced

                    to death. this court (per chan cj) observed

                    at [139] of yong vui kong (clemency):
given the high constitutional offices held by these individuals [ie, the persons directly involved in the making of a

                        clemency decision, namely, the trial judge, the presiding judge of the

                        appellate court (if there is an appeal), the attorney-general, the members

                        of the cabinet and the president], no court is justified in hypothesising

                        that the trial judge and (where there is an appeal) the presiding judge of

                        the appellate court may write biased or inaccurate reports, or that the

                        attorney-general may give a spiteful opinion on the offender’s case,

                        or that the cabinet members and/or the president may be unconsciously

                        prejudiced against the offender or may not give his case full and fair

                        consideration. in my view, until the contrary is shown,

                            the courts, instead of proceeding on such fanciful hypotheses, should

                            proceed on the basis of presumptive legality encapsulated in the maxim

                            “omnia praesumuntur rite esse acta” – all things are presumed to have been done rightly and

                            regularly, ie, in conformity with the

                            law. [emphasis added]
46     although these observations were not made in

                    the context of prosecutorial decisions, it is our view that they provide

                    additional support for applying a presumption of constitutionality in the

                    prosecutorial context. given the constitutional status of the attorney-general,

                    the courts should presume that he acts in the public interest as the public

                    prosecutor, and that he acts in accordance with the law when exercising his

                    prosecutorial power. this approach should not be regarded as the courts

                    deferring to the prosecution. it is, instead, really an application of the

                    established principle that the acts of high officials of state should be

                    accorded a presumption of legality or regularity, especially where such acts are

                    carried out in the exercise of constitutional powers.
47     we might add that as a matter of legal policy,

                    it is not only officials with a constitutional standing who enjoy a presumption

                    of legality for their acts (although the presumption will certainly be stronger

                    in relation to the acts of an official who holds a constitutional office). this

                    can be seen from howe yoon chong v chief assessor

                    [1990] 1 slr(r) 78 (“howe yoon

                        chong”), which concerned the chief assessor’s

                    assessment of the annual value of the appellant’s dwelling house at a much

                    higher value than the annual values of other properties in the same area. the

                    appellant argued that this was a violation of art 12(1) of the

                    constitution. at [13] of howe yoon chong, the privy council stated (per lord keith of kinkel):
the question is whether this state of affairs amounted to a

                        contravention of art 12(1) of the constitution. their lordships were

                        referred to a number of cases in the property tax field in the united states

                        of america, in relation to the equal protection of the law clause in the

                        fourteenth amendment to the constitution of that country. in sunday lake iron co v township of wakefield

                        247 us 350 (1918) the supreme court made the following statement of

                        principle at 352:
the purpose of the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment

                            is to secure every person within the state’s jurisdiction against

                            intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned by express

                            terms of a statute or by its improper execution through duly constituted

                            agents. and it must be regarded as settled that intentional systematic

                            undervaluation by state officials of other taxable property in the same

                            class contravenes the constitutional right of one taxed upon the full

                            value of his property. raymond v chicago union

                                traction co 207 us 20, 35, 37. it is also clear that

                            mere errors of judgment by officials will not support a claim of

                            discrimination. there must be something more – something which in

                            effect amounts to an intentional violation of the essential principle of

                            practical uniformity. the good faith of such officers

                                and the validity of their actions are presumed; when assailed, the

                                burden of proof is upon the complaining party.
[emphasis added]
48     in this connection, we should mention that an

                    analogous presumption applies vis-à-vis the

                    validity of statutes. the courts accord a presumption in favour of the

                    constitutionality of a statute (see lee keng guan and others

                        v public prosecutor [1977–1978] slr(r) 78

                        (“lee keng guan”) at [19] and public prosecutor

                        v taw cheng kong [1998] 2 slr(r) 489 at [60] and [79]–[80]). the basis of this doctrine is that a

                    legislature, when enacting legislation, is presumed to comply with

                    constitutional requirements. in relation to allegations of unlawful

                    discrimination in legislation, the courts “[presume] that the legislature

                    understands and correctly appreciates the need of its own people, that its laws

                    are directed to problems made manifest by experience and that its

                    discriminations are based on adequate grounds” (see lee keng guan at [19],

                    quoting from the indian supreme court case of ram krishna

                        dalmia v justice tendolkar air 1958 sc 538 at 547). in

                    principle, as the legislature and the executive are co-equal under the

                    constitution, the courts should also accord a similar presumption to the

                    exercise of the prosecutorial power as a facet of the executive

                power.
the united states’ approach
49     according a presumption of constitutionality

                    or legality to the exercise of the prosecutorial discretion is also consonant

                    with both the legal policy and the decisions of the united states federal courts

                    on the exercise of the prosecutorial power by attorneys of the united states

                    (“united states attorneys”). the constitution of the united

                    states, unlike our constitution (ie, the

                    constitution as defined at [2] above), does

                    not recognise the prosecutorial power as a constitutional power. instead, the

                    prosecutorial power is conferred on united states attorneys by § 35 of the

                    judiciary act of 1789 (cap 20, 1 stat 73) (us). nevertheless, the

                    united states federal courts have strongly endorsed the principle of judicial

                    non-interference with the prosecutorial discretion of united states attorneys on

                    the basis of the separation of powers doctrine. for instance, in inmates of attica correctional facility et al v nelson

                        a rockefeller et al 477 f 2d 375 (1973), the united

                    states court of appeals for the second circuit said at 379–380:
the primary ground upon which [the] traditional judicial

                        aversion to compelling prosecutions has been based is the separation of

                        powers doctrine.
“although as a member of the bar, the attorney for the united

                            states is an officer of the court, he is nevertheless an executive

                            official of the government, and it is as an officer of the executive

                            department that he exercises a discretion as to whether or not there

                            shall be a prosecution in a particular case. it follows, as an incident

                            of the constitutional separation of powers, that the courts are not to

                            interfere with the free exercise of the discretionary powers of the

                            attorneys of the united states in their control over criminal

                            prosecutions.” united states v. cox, supra 342 f.2d at 171.
…
although a leading commentator has criticized this broad view as unsound

                        and incompatible with the normal function of the judiciary in reviewing for

                        abuse or arbitrariness [in] administrative acts that fall within the

                        discretion of executive officers, k. c. davis, administrative law

                        treatise § 28.16(4) at 982–990 (1970 supp.), he has also

                        recognized, as have most of the cases cited above, that the manifold

                        imponderables which enter into the prosecutor’s decision to prosecute

                        or not to prosecute make the choice not readily amenable to judicial

                        supervision.
…
nor is it clear what the judiciary’s role of supervision should be

                        were it to undertake such a review. at what point would the prosecutor be

                        entitled to call a halt to further investigation as unlikely to be

                        productive? what evidentiary standard would be used to decide whether

                        prosecution should be compelled? … what collateral factors would be

                        permissible bases for a decision not to prosecute, [eg], the pendency of another criminal proceeding elsewhere

                        against the same parties? …
these difficult questions engender serious doubts as to the

                        judiciary’s capacity to review and as to the problem of arbitrariness

                        inherent in any judicial decision to order prosecution. …
50     similarly, in united states

                        v christopher lee armstrong et al 517 us 456 (1996), a case

                    specifically concerning the constitutional prescription of equal protection, the

                    united states supreme court said at 464–465:
a selective-prosecution claim asks a court to exercise judicial power over

                        a “special province” of the executive. heckler v. chaney, 470 u.s. 821, 832, 105 s.ct.

                        1649, 1656, 84 l.ed.2d 714 (1985). the attorney general and united

                        states attorneys retain “ ‘broad

                        discretion’ ” to enforce the nation’s criminal laws.

                            wayte v. united states, 470 u.s. 598,

                        607, 105 s.ct. 1524, 1530–1531, 84 l.ed.2d 547 (1985)

                            [(“wayte”)] (quoting

                            united states v. goodwin, 457 u.s.

                        368, 380, n. 11, 102 s.ct. 2485, 2492, n. 11, 73 l.ed.2d

                        74 (1982)). they have this latitude because they are designated by statute

                        as the president’s delegates to help him discharge his constitutional

                        responsibility to “take care that the laws be faithfully

                        executed.” u.s. const., art. ii, § 3; see 28 u.s.c.

                        [apropos the united states’ judiciary and judicial procedure]

                        §§ 516, 547. as a result, “[t]he presumption of regularity

                        supports” their prosecutorial decisions and, “in the absence

                        of clear evidence to the contrary, courts presume that they have properly

                        discharged their official duties.”

                        united states v. chemical foundation, inc.,

                        272 u.s. 1, 14–15, 47 s.ct. 1, 6, 71 l.ed. 131 (1926)

                            [(“chemical foundation”)].

                        …
of course, a prosecutor’s discretion is “subject to

                        constitutional constraints.”

                        united states v. batchelder, 442 u.s.

                        114, 125, 99 s.ct. 2198, 2204–2205, 60 l.ed.2d 755 (1979).

                        one of these constraints, imposed by the equal protection component of the

                        due process clause of the fifth amendment, bolling v.

                            sharpe, 347 u.s. 497, 500, 74 s.ct. 693,

                        694–695, 98 l.ed. 884 (1954), is that the decision whether to

                        prosecute may not be based on “an unjustifiable standard such as

                        race, religion, or other arbitrary classification,”

                        oyler v. boles, 368 u.s. 448, 456,

                        82 s.ct. 501, 506, 7 l.ed.2d 446 (1962). …
in order to dispel the presumption that a prosecutor has not violated

                        equal protection, a criminal defendant must present “clear evidence

                        to the contrary.”

                        chemical foundation, supra, at 14–15, 47 s.ct., at 6. we explained in

                            wayte why courts are “properly

                        hesitant to examine the decision whether to prosecute.”

                        470 u.s., at 608, 105 s.ct., at 1531. judicial deference to the

                        decisions of these executive officers rests in part on an assessment of the

                        relative competence of prosecutors and courts. “such factors as the

                        strength of the case, the prosecution’s general deterrence value, the

                        government’s enforcement priorities, and the case’s relationship

                        to the government’s overall enforcement plan are not readily

                        susceptible to the kind of analysis the courts are competent to

                        undertake.”

                        id., at 607, 105 s.ct., at 1530.

                        …
the limits of the prosecutorial discretion
51     although the courts are entitled to presume

                    that the prosecutorial power has been properly exercised in a particular case,

                    its exercise is nevertheless subject to legal limits. as a requirement of the

                    rule of law, all legal powers are subject to limits (see chng

                        suan tze v minister for home affairs and others and other appeals

                    [1988] 2 slr(r) 525 at [86], phyllis tan

                    at [149] and yong vui kong (clemency) at [77]). an inherent limitation on the

                    prosecutorial power is that it may not be exercised arbitrarily, and may only be

                    used for the purpose for which it was granted and not for any extraneous

                    purpose. in the context of art 12(1) of the constitution, art 12(1)

                    merely requires the attorney-general (in his capacity as the public prosecutor)

                    to give unbiased consideration to every offender and to avoid taking into

                    account any irrelevant consideration (see teh cheng

                        poh at 56). these principles apply to every prosecution. in cases involving a single offender, this

                    suffices to ensure that like cases are treated alike.
52     in cases where several offenders are involved

                    in the same or similar offences committed in the same criminal enterprise, the

                    same principles stated above at [51] apply,

                    and the attorney-general must of course also have regard to art 12(1). he

                    must compare and treat like with like (see [61] below), and must not unlawfully discriminate against one

                    offender as compared to another. in this regard, the attorney-general may take

                    into account a myriad of factors in determining whether or not to charge an

                    offender (including his co-offenders in the same criminal enterprise, if any)

                    and, if charges are to be brought, for what offence or offences. these factors

                    include the question of whether there is sufficient evidence against the

                    offender and his co-offenders (if any), their personal circumstances, the

                    willingness of one offender to testify against his co-offenders and other policy

                    factors. where relevant, these factors may justify offenders in the same

                    criminal enterprise being prosecuted differently.
53     the attorney-general is the custodian of the

                    prosecutorial power. he uses it to enforce the criminal law not for its own

                    sake, but for the greater good of society, ie, to

                    maintain law and order as well as to uphold the rule of law. offences are

                    committed by all kinds of people in all kinds of circumstances. it is not the

                    policy of the law under our legal system that all offenders must be prosecuted,

                    regardless of the circumstances in which they have committed offences.

                    furthermore, not all offences are provable in a court of law. it is not

                    necessarily in the public interest that every offender must be prosecuted, or

                    that an offender must be prosecuted for the most serious possible offence

                    available in the statute book. conversely, while the public interest does not

                    require the attorney-general to prosecute any and all persons who may be guilty

                    of a crime, he cannot decide at his own whim and fancy who should or should not

                    be prosecuted, and what offence or offences a particular offender should be

                    prosecuted for. the attorney-general’s final decision will be constrained

                    by what the public interest requires.
the parties’ arguments on the substantive issue
54     with the foregoing principles in mind, we will

                    now examine the arguments of the parties in this motion in relation to whether

                    or not art 12(1) of the constitution was breached in the present

                    case.
the applicant’s case
55     in his written submissions, mr ravi

                    advanced three arguments in support of this motion. in his oral submissions

                    before us, mr ravi withdrew two of those arguments. the first withdrawn

                    argument was that the attorney-general had a duty, by reason of art 9 of

                    the constitution, to give reasons for his decision to charge the applicant with

                    the capital offences set out at [6] above as

                    he (the attorney-general) was the last

                        “decision-maker”[note: 1] in the realm of

                    sentencing where there was a legislated mandatory death penalty. the second

                    withdrawn argument was that the applicant had a justifiable sense of grievance

                    in that, by reason of the parity principle in sentencing, he should not have

                    been charged and sentenced differently from sundar (who was equally culpable as

                    him).
56     in the circumstances, we only need to consider

                    the applicant’s remaining argument, which dealt with art 12(1)

                    proper. this, as pleaded in mr ravi’s oral submissions, was that the

                    decision of this court in thiruselvam was no

                    longer good law and should not be followed as it was inconsistent with the privy

                    council’s ruling in ong ah chuan at

                        [35] and [39] on the scope of art 12(1) of the

                    constitution (here, mr ravi specifically referred to the italicised parts

                    of the paragraphs quoted at [19] above).

                    alternatively, mr ravi sought to distinguish thiruselvam on the ground that in that case, katheraven and

                    thiruselvam were charged with different offences (ie, drug trafficking and abetment of drug trafficking

                    respectively), whereas in the present case, the applicant and sundar were

                    charged with identical offences of drug trafficking, save for the quantity of

                    drugs involved.
57     mr ravi further argued that in the

                    present case, it was patently irrational for the prosecution to have charged

                    sundar with trafficking in a lesser amount of drugs than the amount which he had

                    actually delivered to the applicant because doing so “defie[d] the

                    physical laws of nature”.[note: 2] in so doing, mr ravi contended,

                    the prosecution ignored reality, or rather, created its own reality, in order to

                    reduce the gravity of the charges against sundar and, correspondingly, the

                    severity of the punishment he would face. such a decision, it was argued, could

                    not be within the legitimate discretion of the attorney-general, wide though the

                    prosecutorial discretion might be.
58     additionally, mr ravi contended that the

                    applicant’s culpability in the commission of the criminal enterprise in

                    the present case was not greater than that of sundar because sundar had

                    delivered the drugs to the applicant and should therefore be treated as the

                    principal offender. it was argued that even if sundar were not treated as the

                    principal offender, he and the applicant were at the very least of equal

                    blameworthiness. alternatively, mr ravi contended that the

                    applicant’s role in transporting the drugs was not instrumental to the

                    success of the criminal enterprise as sundar’s supplier could have found

                    someone else to transport sundar and, in turn, the drugs.
the attorney-general’s case 
59     the attorney-general did not join issue with

                    mr ravi’s contentions concerning the applicant’s and

                    sundar’s relative blameworthiness in the trafficking of the drugs. state

                    counsel ms chionh, however, submitted that ong ah

                        chuan was decided in a different context and was not applicable

                    to the applicant’s case. she contended that teh cheng

                        poh, sim min teck and thiruselvam were the relevant authorities on the

                    substantive issue raised by the applicant, and that the decisions in the latter

                    two cases foreclosed any argument that the prosecutorial decision in the present

                    case was an infringement of art 12(1) of the constitution.
our decision on the substantive issue
the applicability of ong ah chuan
60     we accept the attorney-general’s

                    argument that ong ah chuan can be distinguished

                    from the present case. as we discussed above at [20], ong ah chuan was concerned

                    with the constitutionality of certain provisions of the mda 1973, and not with

                    any issue relating to the prosecutorial discretion. however, in our view, there

                    are certain observations in ong ah chuan on what

                    art 12(1) requires in the context of legislation which, in their essence,

                    are also applicable to prosecutorial decisions.
61     the privy council stated in ong ah chuan at [35]

                    that “[e]quality before the law and equal protection of the law

                    require[d] that like should be compared with like”. we recognise this as

                    a general principle under art 12(1) that applies to all acts of state,

                    whether legislative or executive. since both the exercise of the legislative

                    power and the exercise of the executive power are subject to judicial review,

                    the same should apply to the exercise of the prosecutorial power because it is

                    merely a facet of the executive power (as stated at [44] above). in enacting penal legislation that classifies

                    offenders for the purposes of punishment, parliament must not violate

                    art 12(1), which requires that “like should be compared with

                    like” (see ong ah chuan at [35]). similarly, the attorney-general is

                    obliged to compare like with like in deciding whether or not to differentiate

                    between the charges against different offenders involved in the same criminal

                    transaction (the issue arising in sim min teck,

                        thiruselvam and the present case).

                    nevertheless, it is clear that the application of this very general principle in

                    the prosecutorial domain is different from its

                    application in the legislative

                domain.
62     in the context of penal legislation, the privy

                    council stated (at [39] of ong ah chuan) that “art 12(1) of the

                    constitution [was] not concerned with equal punitive treatment for equal moral

                    blameworthiness; it [was] concerned with equal punitive treatment for similar

                    legal guilt”. what a class of offenders defined in penal legislation have

                    in common is that they all fulfil the specified ingredients of the same criminal

                    offence. within this class, there may be substantial variations in moral

                    blameworthiness among the offenders. the fact that penal legislation does not

                    distinguish between offenders within the same class based on such moral

                    differences does not in itself render such legislation in breach of

                    art 12(1).
63     in contrast, in the context of the

                    prosecutorial power, the prosecution is obliged to consider, in addition to the

                    legal guilt of the offender, his moral blameworthiness, the gravity of the harm

                    caused to the public welfare by his criminal activity, and a myriad of other

                    factors, including whether there is sufficient evidence against a particular

                    offender, whether the offender is willing to co-operate with the law enforcement

                    authorities in providing intelligence, whether one offender is willing to

                    testify against his co-offenders, and so on – up to and including the

                    possibility of showing some degree of compassion in certain cases. teh cheng poh acknowledged this distinctive feature of

                    the prosecutorial discretion and set out a specific formulation for the

                    application of art 12(1) to prosecutorial decisions (which we explained at

                        [24] above).
the applicant’s other arguments
64     having regard to these matters, we are unable

                    to accept the applicant’s alternative argument that thiruselvam should be distinguished on the basis that while the

                    co-offenders in that case were charged with different offences (viz, abetment of drug trafficking and drug trafficking),

                    in the present case, they were both charged with drug trafficking, but with the

                    charges against one offender (viz, sundar) based

                    on a quantity of drugs much less than the actual quantity of drugs trafficked

                    (as forensically determined) (see [56]–[57] above). in

                    our view, there is no meaningful distinction between the scenario in thiruselvam and that in the present case as the

                    underlying prosecutorial decision in each case was the same. on the facts of

                        thiruselvam, katheraven was, like sundar in

                    this case, charged with offences based on a quantity of drugs less than the

                    actual quantity of drugs trafficked. in substance,

                        thiruselvam and the present case (and, for

                    that matter, sim min teck) are all concerned with

                    the prosecution charging two offenders involved in the same criminal acts with

                    offences of unequal gravity. article 12(1) would apply to all of these

                    cases in exactly the same way.
65     with regard to the applicant’s argument

                    that the prosecutorial discretion cannot and may not extend to contradicting the

                    scientific fact that a specific set of drugs can only have one quantification in

                    weight (see [57] above), we note the

                    established practice that whenever the prosecution decides to prefer a less

                    serious drug trafficking charge against an offender, its practice is to specify

                    the quantity of drugs involved as “not less than” a certain

                    quantity. this formulation is, of course, expressly designed to bring the charge

                    under the applicable sentencing scale prescribed in the second schedule to the

                    mda (in words similar to the statutory language used to define the different

                    sentencing scales according to different quantities of drugs). in this way, the

                    formulation used by the prosecution, despite being somewhat artificial and

                    intended to describe a quantity of drugs other than the forensically-established

                    quantity, permits two offenders trafficking in the same quantity of drugs to be

                    charged with different offences carrying different punishments. in doing so, the

                    prosecution is not denying any scientific fact, but is instead simply reducing

                    the quantity of drugs specified in the charge against one offender in order to

                    give effect to its decision to charge that offender differently from his

                    co-offender. the crucial issue is whether a decision of this nature is within

                    the limits of the prosecutorial discretion accorded to the attorney-general

                    under the law. in our view, provided that such a decision is made for legitimate

                    reasons, it is and has always been permitted under the common law, and

                    art 35(8) of the constitution has merely incorporated that

                position.
application of the requirement of evidence to the present

                facts
66     the applicant’s case on the substantive

                    issue in this motion is that the prosecution’s differentiation between the

                    charges against him and the charges against sundar was a breach of

                    art 12(1) because sundar was either: (a) more culpable, or (b) at

                    the very least, equally culpable in the commission of the criminal enterprise in

                    the present case (referred to hereafter as “premise (a)” and

                    “premise (b)” respectively for ease of discussion). vis-à-vis premise (a), it was argued that the

                    prosecution’s decision to bring more serious charges against the applicant

                    even though he was less culpable than sundar was outright and unlawful

                    discrimination against the applicant, and vis-à-vis premise (b), it was argued that the prosecution

                    had not treated like cases alike. mr ravi also insisted that the

                    applicant’s case on the substantive issue was based purely on the

                    applicant’s constitutional right to equality before the law. he expressly

                    disclaimed any suggestion that the applicant’s complaint of unlawful

                    discrimination would not have arisen if sundar had been charged with the same

                    capital offences as the applicant.
67     mr ravi did not elaborate on or explain

                    the legal basis of the aforesaid disclaimer, but it would appear to rest, where

                    premise (a) is concerned, on the basis that because sundar was more

                    culpable than the applicant, sundar should also have been charged with capital

                    offences and, further, the applicant should have been charged with less serious

                    offences so as to reflect sundar’s greater culpability. if this were not

                    the basis of mr ravi’s disclaimer, then we are unable to find any

                    sound legal basis for it. assuming that mr ravi’s disclaimer does

                    indeed rest on the aforesaid basis where premise (a) is concerned, we find

                    that this argument has no merit as, on the evidence, the applicant was not less

                    culpable than sundar (see [73]

                    below).
68     with regard to premise (b), we are of the

                    view that if sundar had been charged with the same capital offences as the

                    applicant, this motion could not have been brought because the applicant would

                    have had no cause whatever to claim that he had been discriminated against

                    contrary to art 12(1). although (as just mentioned) mr ravi has also

                    disclaimed arguing, if premise (b) applies, that sundar should have been

                    charged with the same capital offences as the applicant in order to satisfy the

                    requirements of art 12(1), mr ravi has in fact (whether unwittingly or

                    otherwise) made this very argument. this is evident from the way in which

                    mr ravi has crafted his case on unlawful discrimination. he has not

                    suggested that the applicant was wrongly convicted of the two capital offences

                    with which he was charged. therefore, implicit in mr ravi’s case on

                    unlawful discrimination (assuming premise (b) applies) is the contention

                    that both the applicant and sundar should have been charged with either the same

                    capital offences or the same non-capital offences (as the case may be), and that

                    the prosecution infringed art 12(1) by differentiating between the charges

                    against the two men as there was no legitimate reason for such

                    differentiation.
69     in respect of both premise (a) and

                    premise (b), the applicant bears the burden of establishing a prima facie case that the prosecution infringed

                    art 12(1) in charging him but not sundar with capital offences even though

                    he was less culpable than sundar (see our discussion of teh

                        cheng poh at [26] above). a

                    mere allegation of unlawful discrimination is insufficient to invoke the

                    intervention of the court to review (or cause to be reviewed) his prosecution

                    for the capital offences set out at [6]

                    above, in contrast to the non-capital offences which sundar was prosecuted for.

                    in teh cheng poh, the fact that the appellant was

                    charged with a capital offence under one statutory regime, rather than with a

                    non-capital offence under an alternative applicable statutory regime, was not

                    sufficient to show that he had been unlawfully discriminated against compared

                    with all other offenders in the same situation. in the circumstances of that

                    case, it was virtually impossible for the appellant to show a prima facie case of discrimination without producing evidence

                    that, on similar facts, another offender had been charged with the alternative

                    non-capital offence (see [26] above), and

                    even if the appellant had succeeded in establishing a prima

                        facie case against the prosecution, that prima

                        facie case would have remained rebuttable by the

                    prosecution.
70     although in sim min

                        teck, this court applied the principles laid down in teh cheng poh in an ambiguous fashion (see [32] above), we agree that the interpretation

                    given by teh cheng poh to the malaysian equivalent

                    of art 12(1) of the constitution applies to the facts in sim min teck and also to the facts in the present case. applying

                    that interpretation, on the facts of the present case, the applicant must

                    specifically produce prima facie evidence of bias

                    or the taking into account of irrelevant considerations by the attorney-general

                    in differentiating, pursuant to his prosecutorial discretion, between the

                    charges against the applicant and the charges against sundar. in this regard,

                    the mere differentiation of charges between co-offenders, even between those of

                    equal guilt, is not, per se, sufficient to

                    constitute prima facie evidence of bias or the

                    taking into account of irrelevant considerations that breaches art 12(1).

                    differentiation between offenders of equal guilt can be legitimately undertaken

                    for many reasons and based on the consideration of many factors (see [63] above). it is for the offender who complains

                    of a breach of art 12(1) to prove that there are no valid grounds for such

                    differentiation. in the absence of proof by the offender, the court should not

                    presume that there are no valid grounds in this regard.
71     given that there are many legitimate reasons

                    for the prosecution to differentiate between the charges brought against

                    different offenders involved in the same criminal enterprise, such

                    differentiation per se does not necessarily mean

                    that the prosecution has not given unbiased consideration to the offender or

                    offenders in question, or that the prosecution has taken into account irrelevant

                    considerations. put another way, such differentiation, without more, does not

                    raise an inference of breach of art 12(1). rather, in the absence of

                        prima facie evidence to the contrary, the

                    inference would be that the prosecution has based its differentiation on

                    relevant considerations. this conclusion does not mean that an aggrieved

                    offender can never prove a case of unlawful discrimination. such a case may be

                    self-evident on the facts of a particular case (for example, where a less

                    culpable offender is charged with a more serious offence while his more culpable

                    co-offender is charged with a less serious offence, when there are no other

                    facts to show a lawful differentiation between their respective

                charges).
72     a further reason for our decision (viz, that differentiation of the type outlined in the

                    preceding paragraph is not in itself evidence of breach of art 12(1)) lies

                    in the presumption of constitutionality apropos the attorney-general’s

                    exercise of the prosecutorial power. the presumption is that in prosecuting an

                    offender or offenders, the attorney-general acts in the public interest and does

                    not abuse his prosecutorial power (see [44]

                    and [46] above). as we stated earlier, the

                    attorney-general has an obligation to use the prosecutorial power to enforce the

                    criminal law not as an end in itself, but for the greater good of society (see

                        [53] above), and it can be presumed that

                    he normally exercises his discretion with that purpose in mind.
73     in the circumstances, we are of the view that

                    this motion fails as: (a) the applicant has not produced any evidence to

                    prove a prima facie case of a violation of

                    art 12(1); and (b) in any event, the evidence on record is

                    insufficient to rebut the presumption of constitutionality with regard to the

                    attorney-general’s decision to prosecute the applicant for capital

                    offences rather than for non-capital offences (as in the case of sundar).

                    moreover, in our view, the evidence does not show that sundar was more culpable

                    than the applicant in relation to their respective drug trafficking offences. at

                    the highest, they could be said to be of equal culpability and/or moral

                    blameworthiness in the trafficking of controlled drugs. that, in itself, is not

                    sufficient to rebut the presumption of constitutionality vis-à-vis the attorney-general’s decision to prefer the

                    charges which were brought against, respectively, the applicant and sundar. in

                    this connection, we do not accept the applicant’s argument that he was not

                    instrumental in the commission of the offences which he was charged with because

                    sundar’s supplier could have used another person to receive the drugs from

                    sundar. the fact remains that the applicant received those drugs for the

                    purposes of trafficking, which offence he carried out before he was

                    arrested.
whether the attorney-general has to disclose the reasons for his

                prosecutorial decisions
74     for the sake of completeness, it is necessary

                    for us to say a few words on the attorney-general’s position (which he

                    steadfastly held in the present case) that he has no general obligation to

                    disclose his reasons for making a particular prosecutorial decision, even though

                    mr ravi has (as mentioned at [55]

                    above) withdrawn his argument to the contrary. we accept the

                    attorney-general’s position, which reflects the english position at common

                    law (see regina v secretary of state for the home department,

                        ex parte doody [1994]

                    1 ac 531 at 564e).
75     in support of his (now withdrawn) argument

                    that the attorney-general has a general obligation to disclose the reasons for

                    his prosecutorial decisions, mr ravi referred to regina

                        v director of public prosecutions, ex parte manning and another

                    [2001] qb 330 (“ex parte

                    manning”). in that case, the director of public prosecutions

                    of the uk (“the director of public prosecutions”) declined to

                    prosecute a prison officer (“n”) in connection with the death of

                    the applicants’ brother (“the victim”) while in remand. the

                    evidence showed that the victim’s death resulted from the manner in which

                    n held his head to restrain him during a violent altercation, and the jury

                    returned a verdict of unlawful killing at the inquest.
76     the court (per

                    lord bingham of cornhill cj) held (at [33]) that although, under english law, there was no absolute

                    obligation on the part of the director of public prosecutions to give reasons

                    for a decision not to prosecute, since the right to life was the most

                    fundamental of all human rights and since the death of a person in the

                    state’s custody resulting from violence inflicted by the state’s

                    agents necessarily aroused profound concern, the director of public prosecutions

                    would be expected, in the absence of compelling grounds to

                        the contrary, to give reasons for his decision not to prosecute n

                    in those circumstances. in that regard, in order to meet the concerns of the

                    applicants, the court examined the review note on the case prepared by a

                    specialist caseworker in the uk’s crown prosecution service. the review

                    note, after setting out the factors which were deemed to be relevant, concluded

                    that there was insufficient evidence to justify any criminal prosecution of n.

                    the court found (at [41]) that the review

                    note did not address or resolve five points against n which ought to have been

                    taken into account, and accordingly quashed the decision of the director of

                    public prosecutions not to prosecute n. the court concluded its judgment by

                    emphasising (at [42]):
… [t]he effect of this decision is not to require the director [of

                        public prosecutions] to prosecute. it is to require reconsideration of the

                        decision whether or not to prosecute. on the likely or proper outcome of

                        that reconsideration we express no opinion at all.
77     given that in the present case, both the

                    applicant and sundar were prosecuted for and convicted of the drug trafficking

                    offences which they committed, the decision in ex parte

                        manning is distinguishable on the facts. nothing in the present

                    case can be said to raise any profound concern as to whether the applicant was

                    wrongly convicted of the offences with which he was charged. as observed by the

                    prosecution, in this motion, the applicant is not protesting that he was

                    wrongfully convicted. instead, his case is that he

                    was wrongfully prosecuted because sundar, although

                    prosecuted for the same criminal enterprise, was charged with offences that did

                    not attract capital punishment, in contrast to the capital charges brought

                    against the applicant. given the nature and width of the prosecutorial

                    discretion, coupled with the fact that the applicant did not avail himself of

                    the two opportunities which he had to raise the issue that the prosecution

                    violated art 12(1) in charging him, but not sundar, with capital offences,

                    there cannot be any compelling grounds for this court to now direct the

                    prosecution, at this stage of the proceedings, to explain its reasons for

                    deciding to prosecute the applicant and sundar for offences carrying different

                    punishments.
78     furthermore, given the manifold factors that

                    the attorney-general is entitled to take into account in making a prosecutorial

                    decision, it would be wholly unrealistic for this court to proceed on the basis

                    that the attorney-general would be unable to point to any relevant consideration

                    to explain his prosecutorial decisions vis-à-vis

                    the applicant and sundar respectively. indeed, it is not difficult to discern a

                    valid consideration in the present case. it is that sundar was a prosecution

                    witness against the applicant at the trial in the high court. the willingness of

                    an offender to serve as a prosecution witness against his co-offender is the

                    common thread that runs through sim min teck,

                        thiruselvam and the present case, in which

                    sim, thiruselvam and the applicant respectively complained of a violation of

                    art 12(1) (in this regard, we note that in thiruselvam, katheraven turned hostile and tried,

                    unsuccessfully, to exonerate thiruselvam from any role in the criminal

                    enterprise in question, just as sundar did in the present case (see [7] above)). it is a common and well-known practice

                    for the prosecution to take into account an offender’s willingness to

                    testify against his co-offender when deciding what charges to bring against the

                    offender as compared to his co-offender. of course, we accept that what we have

                    just said may be pure speculation in the present case since the prosecution

                    remained silent on the issue of why it differentiated between the charges

                    against the applicant and those against sundar. nevertheless, it does not

                    detract from the point that sundar’s willingness to give evidence for the

                    prosecution (notwithstanding his subsequent about-turn on the witness stand) was

                    a legitimate factor for the prosecution to have taken into account in deciding

                    to prosecute sundar for non-capital offences; there could, of course, have been

                    other valid factors as well.
conclusion
79     for the reasons stated above, this motion is

                    dismissed.
[note: 1]see

                                para 27 of the applicant’s skeletal arguments filed on

                                29 october 2011 (“the applicant’s skeletal

                                arguments”).[note: 2]see

                                para 41 of the applicant’s skeletal

                            arguments.copyright © government of singapore.