yong vui kong

      v

      attorney-general

    [2010] sghc 235case number:originating summons no 740 of 2010decision date:13 august 2010tribunal/court:high courtcoram:

      steven chong j

    counsel name(s):

      m ravi (l f violet netto) for the plaintiff; 

      david chong sc, shawn ho hsi ming and tan shin yi (attorney-general's chambers) for the defendant.

    parties:

      yong vui kong — 

      attorney-general

    
[lawnet editorial note: the appeal to this decision in civil appeal no 144 of 2010 was dismissed by the court of appeal on 4 april 2011. see [2011] sgca 9.]
13 august 2010judgment reserved.


        steven chong j:
introduction
1       this is an application by way of an ex parte originating summons pursuant to o 53 of the

                    rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2006 rev ed) (“roc”) for

                    leave to seek, in essence, a permanent stay of execution on the death sentence

                    passed on the applicant, mr yong vui kong (“yong”), because

                    of alleged flaws in the clemency process provided for by article 22p of the

                    constitution of the republic of singapore (1985 rev ed, 1999 reprint) (the

                    “constitution”). this application raises issues of public

                    importance that hitherto have not been the subject of any earlier judicial

                    pronouncement in singapore. specifically, it raises the issue of whether the

                    clemency process is subject to judicial review. the examination of this issue

                    would entail a comparative review of the jurisprudence on this subject in

                    several commonwealth jurisdictions including england, the birthplace of the

                        “high prerogative of

                    mercy”.
background
the procedural history
2       this application is the latest legal challenge

                    mounted by mr m ravi, yong’s present counsel,

                    (“mr ravi”), on behalf of yong. it is therefore useful to set

                    out the procedural history for context before going into the

                merits.
3       yong was convicted of trafficking in 47.27g of

                    diamorphine under s 5(1)(a) of the misuse of

                    drugs act (cap 185, 2001 rev ed) and sentenced to death by the high

                    court on 14 november 2008 (see pp v yong vui

                        kong [2009] sghc 4). yong filed a notice of appeal

                    against both conviction and sentence on 27 november 2008 but

                    subsequently had a change of heart, and after notifying the court of appeal

                    through his assigned counsel, mr kelvin lim, of his intention to withdraw

                    his appeal on 23 april 2009, he proceeded to do so at the hearing

                    itself on 29 april 2009.
4       after he withdrew his appeal, yong petitioned

                    the president for clemency on 11 august 2009 (“the first

                    petition”). it was around that time that yong, through his brother,

                    instructed mr ravi to take over conduct of his case. yong’s petition

                    for clemency was rejected by the president on 20 november 2009, and

                    with apparently only four days remaining before the sentence of death was to be

                    carried out, mr ravi filed a criminal motion

                    on 30 november 2009 to seek leave to appeal to the court of

                    appeal, notwithstanding yong’s earlier withdrawal. the criminal motion was

                    fixed before a high court judge, who granted an interim stay of execution and

                    adjourned the matter to be heard by the court of appeal. in the meantime, the

                    attorney-general advised the president to grant a temporary respite against the

                    carrying out of the death sentence on yong pursuant to s 220(f)(ii) of the criminal procedure code (cap 68,

                    1985 rev ed), and such order was issued on 3 december 2009. after

                    hearing submissions on 8 december 2009, the court of appeal granted

                    yong leave to appeal against his sentence and a stay of execution.
5       the appeal was then heard by the court of appeal

                    on 15 march 2010. the crucial issue that was argued was whether the

                    mandatory death penalty imposed by the misuse of drugs act was ultra vires the constitution. in the course of his

                    submissions, mr ravi referred, peripherally, to the president’s power

                    to grant clemency under article 22p of the constitution

                    (“article 22p”), and in response, the then attorney-general,

                    mr walter woon sc, submitted that the president’s power to grant

                    clemency has to be exercised in accordance with the advice of the cabinet, and

                    the president has no discretion in the matter.
6       the court of appeal delivered its judgment on

                    14 may 2010 and, in dismissing yong’s appeal, held that the

                    mandatory death penalty was not unconstitutional. the court of appeal also noted

                    that it was unnecessary “to consider mr ravi’s submission as

                    to the effect which the president’s power to grant clemency under [article

                    22p] has on the constitutionality of the [mandatory death penalty]” (see

                        yong vui kong v pp [2010] sgca 20

                    at [121]).
the statements made by the minister 
7       on 9 may 2010, some days before the

                    court of appeal delivered its judgment, local newspapers carried reports quoting

                    mr k shanmugam, the minister of law and the second minister for home

                    affairs (“the minister”) as making the following two statements

                    (collectively “the minister’s statement”) in response to a

                    question at a community dialogue session as to whether the government’s

                    policy on the death penalty for drug offences would change in the future as a

                    result of yong’s case. the first statement is:
yong vui kong is young. but if we say ‘we let you go’, what is

                        the signal we are sending?
the second statement is:
we are sending a signal to all the drug barons out there: just make sure

                        you choose a victim who is young, or a mother of a young child, and use them

                        as the people to carry the drugs into singapore.
mr ravi was later quoted in the media as saying his

                    client’s fate had been “poisoned by biasedness (sic)” as a result of the minister’s statement.

                    before me it was accepted that, for present purposes, the minister’s words

                    were accurately reported.
8       in response, the ministry of law issued a press

                    release on 9 july 2010 to explain that the minister was not commenting

                    on any issue that was being considered by the court of appeal and that he was

                    merely commenting on the government’s legislative policy and whether that

                    policy will change, and the extent to which youthfulness or other personal

                    factors are relevant in the formulation of government policy to tackle the drug

                    menace.
the issues arising out of the present application
9       against this background, this application was

                    brought on 21 july 2010. as required by o 53 r 1(3),

                    the application for leave was served on the attorney-general, who was

                    represented at the hearing by mr david chong sc. yong is seeking leave

                    to claim the following reliefs:
(a)     a declaration that under art 22p of

                        the constitution, it is the elected president and not his advisors who has

                        the discretion to decide whether to grant yong’s petition for

                        clemency.
(b)     a

                        prohibitive order enjoining the elected president from abdicating his

                        authority under art 22p of the constitution to the

                    cabinet.
(c)     an order

                        enjoining the elected president from fettering his discretion to grant or

                        refuse yong’s petition for clemency.
(d)     a prohibitive order enjoining the director of

                        prisons from executing yong and granting yong an indefinite stay of

                        execution.
(e)     an

                        order that yong be entitled to be pardoned or is alternatively entitled not

                        to be deprived of his life because the conduct of the minister has

                        irreversibly tainted the clemency process with apparent

                    bias.
(f)     an order that

                        the cabinet is disqualified from taking further part in the clemency

                        process.
(g)     an

                        order that yong is entitled not to be deprived of his life on account of

                        being deprived of the possibility of a fair determination of the clemency

                        process;
(h)     an

                        order that yong is entitled to see all the materials that will be before the

                        cabinet on his clemency petition including, and in particular, the trial

                        judge’s report, the chief justice’s report or other reports of

                        the appellate court and the attorney-general’s opinion, so as to

                        afford him an opportunity to make written representations before any

                        decision is reached.
(i)     an order that yong is entitled not to be deprived of his life on

                        account of having suffered grave injustice as a result of the actions of the

                        president and the cabinet.
10     the above reliefs can be classified into three

                    categories, with the reliefs under each category sharing a common legal

                    premise:
(a)     reliefs (a) to (d) premise that the

                        power to grant pardons under article 22p is justiciable, and that the

                        discretion to grant pardons resides with the president and not the

                        cabinet.
(b)     reliefs (e) to (i), save for relief (h), premise that the power to grant

                        pardons under article 22p is justiciable, and specifically is subject to

                        judicial review on the ground of apparent bias, which, i should stress, is

                        the only substantive ground of review put forth by

                    mr ravi.
(c)     relief (h) stands alone, and premises that yong has a right to see the

                        materials before the cabinet or the president, either as an independent

                        right, or as a corollary of a wider right to make representations to the

                        cabinet or the president in considering whether or not to exercise the power

                        in article 22p. i should stress that yong is applying to see the materials

                        on the basis that this is a substantive right by

                            itself. he is not asking for discovery of

                            evidence in pursuit of some other substantive

                    right.
in addition to the substantive questions raised by

                    these premises, there are also two preliminary issues, viz:
(i)the standard applicable to deciding whether or

                            not leave should be granted; and
(ii)whether declaratory relief is available under

                            o 53.
11     in resisting the application for leave, the

                    overarching argument raised by mr chong was that the entire clemency

                    process was not subject to judicial review and therefore the application must

                    fail in limine.
12     i will address each preliminary and

                    substantive point in turn. i should say that there was absolutely no doubt that

                    yong, on whom the sentence of death has been imposed, had the requisite standing

                    and interest to bring this application. this was, quite rightly, not disputed by

                    mr chong at the hearing.
13     before me, it was common ground that the

                    prison authorities had given yong until 26 august 2010 to file his fresh

                    petition for clemency. at the end of the hearing, i asked mr ravi if there

                    were any considerations of time i should take into account. mr ravi quite

                    sensibly took the position that even if i were unable to come to a decision by

                    26 august 2010, he is likely to advise yong to file the petition by

                    26 august 2010 so as to preserve his position. i have therefore

                    prepared this judgment rather urgently, in order that the parties could decide

                    on the next step with all options remaining open.
threshold test for leave
14     i first consider the appropriate standard by

                    which i should scrutinise the merits of this application. mr ravi argued

                    that for leave to be granted under o 53, it was sufficient for him to show that

                    he has an arguable case for the various reliefs sought in the present

                    application. relying on chan hiang leng colin v minister for

                        information and the arts [1996] 1 slr(r) 294 (“colin chan”), mr ravi submitted that

                    the court, at the leave stage, should only conduct a quick perusal of the

                    materials to determine whether it discloses an arguable case for granting the

                    reliefs claimed. mr ravi’s submission was based on his understanding

                    of the decision in colin chan which affirmed the

                    test adopted in irc v national federation of self-employed

                        and small businesses ltd [1982] ac 617 at 643–644

                        (“irc”):
the whole purpose of requiring that leave should first be obtained to make

                        the application for judicial review would be defeated if

                            the court were to go into the matter in any depth at that

                        stage. if, on a quick perusal of the material then

                            available, the court thinks that it discloses what might on further

                            consideration turn out to be an arguable case in favour of granting to

                            the applicant the relief claimed, it ought, in the exercise of a

                            judicial discretion, to give him leave to apply for that

                            relief.
[emphasis added]
15     on the strength of this passage, mr ravi

                    submitted that it would not be appropriate at the leave stage to conduct a

                    detailed examination of the merits of the legal points raised. i disagree. it is

                    clear from the very passage in irc relied on by

                    mr ravi that “the quick perusal” qualifies the materials,

                        ie the evidence before the court. i would

                    agree with mr ravi that at the leave stage, it would be inappropriate for

                    the court to assess the weight or admissibility of the evidence in order to

                    determine whether leave should or should not be granted. assessing the weight of

                    the evidence would require more than just a “quick perusal”. in

                        irc, the house of lords observed that the

                    discretion to be exercised at the leave stage is different from that to be

                    exercised at the substantive hearing “when all the

                        evidence is in”.
16     however, in the present application,

                    mr chong has confirmed that the attorney-general would not be filing any

                    affidavits in response and is content to resist the application solely on the

                    basis of the affidavit filed by mr ravi on behalf of yong. as such, all the

                    evidence is already in and there is no dispute of fact. before me are pure

                    questions of law which have been fully and indeed ably argued, and in the

                    circumstances it makes no sense whatsoever for a bifurcated process where i

                    “quickly peruse” the merits in order to decide whether to grant

                    leave, while leaving a more detailed consideration to be made by another judge

                    if i do decide to grant leave. everything can and should be decided at one

                    hearing.
17     i find support for such an approach in the

                    judgment of the court of appeal in pang chen suan v

                        commissioner for labour [2008] 3 slr(r) 648. the court

                    of appeal’s decision is instructive as to the proper approach to be

                    adopted for such ex parte applications. it

                    observed (at [56]) that in suitable cases, ex parte applications for leave should be heard inter partes and disposed of on the merits as a

                    substantive application.
we should like to add by way of guidance to judges who hear ex parte applications for leave for judicial

                        review that the purpose of requiring leave is to enable the court to sieve

                        out frivolous applications. a case such as the present

                            which clearly raises issues which require more than a cursory

                            examination of the merits should have been heard as a substantive

                            application. there is no reason why an ex parte application such as

                            pang's could not have been heard inter partes and disposed of on the

                            merits as a substantive application.
[emphasis added]
in that case, the court of appeal was concerned with legal issues

                    which required more than a cursory examination of the merits. it considered the

                    issues on the substantive merits and granted leave. in fact, it went on to

                    observe (at [56]) that the commissioner should not resist the application since

                    on the merits it was bound to fail:
[g]iven our conclusions on the substantive issues in this case, we

                        indicated to state counsel that he should advise the commissioner that

                        pang's claim for workmen's compensation should be processed immediately

                        without the necessity of another court hearing, at which the commissioner

                        was bound to fail.
18     similarly, in the high court decision of

                        chai chwan v singapore medical council

                    [2009] sghc 115, belinda ang j examined the substantive arguments at

                    the leave stage and concluded that as the applicant had no arguable case, leave

                    was refused since, even on judicial review, he would ultimately fail on the

                    merits. she observed (at [31]):
i have to say that after the court has heard full arguments and seen

                        information from both sides it is hard to see what else “might on

                        further consideration turn out to be an arguable case.”
19     for the reasons which i have just mentioned, i

                    am of the view that this is a case where i should fully consider the points of

                    law raised and dispose of them on the merits.
whether declaratory relief is available under o 53
20     as another preliminary point, i agree with

                    mr chong’s submission that the court has no jurisdiction to grant

                    declaratory relief in an application, such as the present one, made under

                    o 53. declaratory relief can only be obtained by way of ordinary action,

                        ie writ or originating summons. see re application by dow jones (asia) inc

                    [1987] slr(r) 627 at [14]; colin chan at

                    [5]–[6]; yip kok seng v traditional chinese medicine

                        practitioners board [2010] sghc 226 at [16].

                    yong’s prayers for declaratory relief can therefore be dismissed on this

                    ground alone. however, given the gravity of the issues raised, i hesitate to

                    rest my decision purely on procedural considerations, and would go on to

                    consider the merits.
whether the clemency process is justiciable
21     this, to my mind, is the pivotal issue. if

                    this issue is decided against yong, his application cannot succeed. the clemency

                    process in singapore is set out in article 22p:

grant of pardon, etc.
22p. —(1) the president, as occasion shall arise, may,

                        on the advice of the cabinet —
(a)    grant a pardon to any accomplice in any

                            offence who gives information which leads to the conviction of the

                            principal offender or any one of the principal offenders, if more than

                            one;
(b)    grant to any offender convicted of any

                            offence in any court in singapore, a pardon, free or subject to lawful

                            conditions, or any reprieve or respite, either indefinite or for such

                            period as the president may think fit, of the execution of any sentence

                            pronounced on such offender; or
(c)    remit the whole or any part of such

                            sentence or of any penalty or forfeiture imposed by law.
(2)    where any offender has been condemned to death

                        by the sentence of any court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has

                        been confirmed by the appellate court, the president shall cause the reports

                        which are made to him by the judge who tried the case and the chief justice

                        or other presiding judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the

                        attorney-general with instructions that, after the attorney-general has

                        given his opinion thereon, the reports shall be sent, together with the

                        attorney-general’s opinion, to the cabinet so that the cabinet may

                        advise the president on the exercise of the power conferred on him by clause

                        (1).
22     however, article 22p itself does not provide

                    whether the clemency process is subject to judicial review. therefore, in

                    deciding this issue, it would be helpful to examine the legal position adopted

                    by other commonwealth jurisdictions which have some form of what originated in

                    england as the prerogative of mercy. this i now do, beginning with england, the

                    birthplace of the prerogative. as a stylistic point, i should note that the

                    cases refer to the prerogative of mercy, the clemency process, and the power to

                    grant pardons interchangeably, and in referring to them i will follow the

                    particular terminology adopted. however, this makes no difference to my

                    substantive analysis and i will treat them to mean the same thing.
england
23     historically, the prerogative of mercy was one

                    of the prerogative powers of the crown. nearly 200 years ago, the prerogative of

                    mercy was described by joseph chitty as a power that was exercised personally by the crown because criminal liability was,

                    at that time, grounded upon the idea that the commission of an offence was a

                    violation of the crown’s peace (a treatise on the law

                        of the prerogatives of the crown: and the relative duties and rights of the

                        subject (joseph butterworth and son, 1820) at 89):
the king is, in legal contemplation, injured by the commission of public

                        offences; his peace is said to be violated thereby, and the right to pardon

                        cannot be vested more properly than in the sovereign, who is, from his

                        situation, more likely than any other person to exercise it with

                        impartiality, and to whom good policy requires that the people should look,

                        with submissive respect, as the head of the nation, and supreme guardian of

                        the laws...
24     this was noted in r v home

                        secretary, ex p bentley [1994] qb 349

                        (“bentley”) by watkins lj,

                    who added (at 357) that the prerogative of mercy functioned to ameliorate the

                    harshness of the law during the middle ages:
the exercise of mercy by the crown appears to have become firmly

                        established in the middle ages, with the infringement of the king's peace

                        emerging as the basis for criminal liability. since major felonies were

                        invariably capital, and pleas to self-defence had not developed, judicial

                        procedure produced inflexible and unsatisfactory results. use of the

                        prerogative relieved those results.
25     it is therefore necessary to note two

                    points:
(a)because the prerogative of mercy was originally

                            exercised by the crown in a personal capacity, it fell outside the

                            courts’ supervisory jurisdiction; and
(b)the prerogative of mercy was, for a period of

                            time, as much a part of the criminal justice system as was the (then

                            relatively undeveloped) legal system which produced the convictions,

                            many of which resulted in capital punishment.
however, as watkins lj also notes (at 358), the english legal

                    system has since matured, with more recourses to appellate courts in criminal

                    cases, and accordingly, the significance of the prerogative has been greatly

                    reduced.
26     another important development was

                    england’s constitutional evolution from an absolute monarchy to a

                    parliamentary democracy, which gave rise to the constitutional convention that

                    the prerogative powers would be exercised by the crown in accordance with the

                    advice of its ministers, rather than as a matter of personal

                discretion.
27     despite the fact that the prerogative powers

                    were no longer personal to the crown, the english courts remained reluctant to

                    interfere with the prerogative of mercy due to the nature of

                        its subject matter. in hanratty v lord

                        butler (unreported), 12 may 1971; court of appeal (civil

                    division) transcript no 171 of 1971 (cited in bentley at 360) (“hanratty”), the court of appeal upheld the order below to

                    strike out an action in negligence that was brought against the home secretary

                    in which it was alleged that he had failed to consider new evidence in the form

                    of witness statements. it is apparent from the nature of the claim that the

                    challenge was made in relation to the decision making process, and not the

                    merits of the decision itself. however, lord denning mr explained (as quoted in

                        bentley at 360) that:
[t]hese courts have had occasion in the past to cut down some of the

                        prerogatives of the crown: but they have never sought to encroach on the

                        prerogative of mercy. it is not exercised by the queen herself personally.

                        it is exercised by her on the advice of one of the principal secretaries of

                        state. he advises her with the greatest conscience and good care. he takes

                        full responsibility for the manner of its exercise. that being so, the law

                        will not inquire into the manner in which the prerogative is exercised.

                            it is outside the competence of the courts to call it

                            into question: nor would they wish to do so.
[emphasis added]
28     this was reiterated by lord diplock in the

                    landmark decision of the house of lords in council of civil

                        service unions v minister for civil service [1985]

                    1 ac 374 (“the gchq case”)

                    at 411:
while i see no a priori reason to rule out "irrationality" as a ground for

                        judicial review of a ministerial decision taken in the exercise of

                        "prerogative" powers, i find it difficult to envisage in any of the various

                        fields in which the prerogative remains the only source of the relevant

                        decision-making power a decision of a kind that would be open to attack

                        through the judicial process upon this ground. such decisions will generally

                        involve the application of government policy. the reasons

                            for the decision-maker taking one course rather than another do not

                            normally involve questions to which, if disputed, the judicial process

                            is adapted to provide the right answer, by which i mean that the kind of

                            evidence that is admissible under judicial procedures and the way in

                            which it has to be adduced tend to exclude from the attention of the

                            court competing policy considerations which, if the executive discretion

                            is to be wisely exercised, need to be weighed against one another

                            — a balancing exercise which judges by their upbringing and

                            experience are ill-qualified to perform. i leave this as an

                        open question to be dealt with on a case to case basis if, indeed, the case

                        should ever arise.
[emphasis added]
lord roskill added at 418:
prerogative powers such as those relating to the making of treaties, the

                        defence of the realm, the prerogative of

                        mercy, the grant of honours, the dissolution of parliament and

                        the appointment of ministers as well as others are not, i

                            think susceptible to judicial review because their nature and subject

                            matter are such as not to be amenable to the judicial

                        process.
[emphasis added]
although the gchq case was not directly

                    concerned with the prerogative of mercy, their lordships’

                    dicta lend support to the prevailing view that the

                    question of whether a pardon should be granted is one that is “not

                    amenable to the judicial process” due to its nature and subject

                    matter.
29     in unpacking the meaning behind the phrase

                    “not amenable to judicial review”, the learned editors of

                        de smith’s judicial review (sweet &

                    maxwell, 6th edition, 2007) have explained that there are some decisions which

                    the courts have traditionally taken the view that they, as an institution, are

                    ill-equipped to review (paras 1-030–1-033):
matters which are in essence matters of preference
these include decisions which cannot be impugned on the basis of any

                        objective standard because their resolution is essentially a matter of

                        individual (including political) preference...
...
matters in relation to which the court lacks expertise
a second institutional limitation of the courts is lack of relative

                        expertise. particularly as the review of fact, or the merits of a decision,

                        is not routinely permitted in judicial review, there are some matters which

                        are best resolved by those with specialist knowledge...
matters which are polycentric
a third limitation on the court’s institutional capacity occurs when

                        the matter to be determined is “polycentric”. most

                        “allocative decisions” – decisions involving the

                        distribution of limited resources – fall within this

                        category...
30     regardless of whether the prerogative of mercy

                    falls neatly within one or more of these categories, the position in england is

                    clear that the pardon or clemency process is not justiciable. this established

                    principle of english constitutional law was revisited in bentley. the decision in bentley

                    arose out of extraordinary circumstances. the applicant had sought judicial

                    review from the divisional court against the home secretary for upholding a

                    previous home secretary’s decision not to grant a posthumous free pardon to her brother, derek bentley, who was

                    executed in 1953. this was based on the argument that the long-standing home

                    office policy, ie that a free pardon would not be

                    granted unless he was satisfied that the person concerned was both morally and

                    technically innocent of the crime, was an error of law as it misunderstood the

                    nature and effect of a free pardon.
31     the divisional court acknowledged that

                    questions of policy were not reviewable and held that the home secretary was

                    entitled to rely on the long-standing policy of previous home secretaries. the

                    court was of the opinion, however, that the home secretary had failed to

                    consider the option of granting a conditional pardon; but it stopped short of

                    saying that the pardon process was subject to judicial review. instead, owing to

                    the exceptional circumstances of the case, it merely invited the home secretary

                    to reconsider the exercise of the prerogative of mercy – an extralegal

                    move. indeed, subsequently conditional pardon was granted in july 1993 and his

                    conviction was quashed by the court of appeal in 1998 (see r

                        v bentley (deceased) [2001] 1 cr app r 307).
32     it can therefore be summarised, that the

                    english courts have been reluctant to interfere with the home secretary’s

                    exercise of the prerogative of mercy, even in the most exceptional cases, and

                    therefore the home secretary’s discretion remains absolute and immune from

                    any challenge. the main justification for this position is that neither the

                    nature nor the subject matter of the pardon process is amenable to judicial

                    review. this approach appears also to be consistent with the english

                    courts’ view of the separation of powers under the westminster model of

                    government.
new zealand
33     the position in new zealand is found in the

                    court of appeal decision of burt v

                        governor-general [1992] 3 nzlr 672. the appellant

                    challenged the governor-general’s decision not to grant a pardon on the

                    grounds that the governor-general and the department of justice had failed to

                    act fairly and reasonably in dealing with the petition. he raised the general

                    arguments that “petitioners have legitimate expectations of fair

                    treatment” and that “the public too would expect a fair procedure

                    to be followed”. in considering the issue of whether the prerogative of

                    mercy was justiciable, the court took the view that the prerogative has

                    developed to become “an integral element in the criminal justice system,

                    a constitutional safeguard against mistakes”. however, the court was also

                    of the opinion that the existence of various safeguards against miscarriages of

                    justice meant that (at 683):
... no pressing reason has been made out for altering

                            the practice regarding the royal prerogative of mercy. while

                        accepting that it is inevitably the duty of the court to extend the scope of

                        common law review if justice so requires, we are not satisfied that in this

                        field justice does so require, at any rate at present.
[emphasis added]
34     in doing so, the court of appeal affirmed the

                    position in the privy council decision of de freitas v

                        benny [1976] ac 239 (discussed at [46] below) that the decision making process of

                    the prerogative of mercy is not reviewable in a court of law.
australia
35     the position in australia is no different.

                    this was clearly established in the decision of horwitz v

                        connor (1908) 6 clr 38 (“horwitz”), in which the high court of australia affirmed

                    the common law position that no court had jurisdiction to review the discretion

                    of the governor in council in his exercise of the prerogative of mercy under s

                    540 of the crimes act 1890 (victoria).
36     although strictly not in issue, the supreme

                    court of south australia in the decision of von einem v

                        griffin (1998) 72 sasr 110 took the opportunity to

                    revisit the issue of justiciability of the prerogative of mercy. it cited the

                        gchq case with approval and accepted at 126

                    that the modern approach of justiciability considers the nature of the subject

                    matter of the power which is sought to be reviewed. after reviewing the privy

                    council decision of de freitas v benny, the court

                    went on to observe that the prerogative of mercy was not subject to judicial

                    review (at 129):
it is probable, therefore, that, as presently advised, the prerogative of

                        mercy is not subject to review, not because its source is the prerogative

                        but because of the subject matter of the power itself. the weight of

                        authority seems to suggest so: see burt v

                            governor-general [1992] 3 nzlr 672; cf r v secretary of state for the home department; ex parte

                            bentley [1994] qb 349. however, as i say, there

                        being no complaint about his excellency's refusal to exercise the

                        prerogative of mercy, this court does not need to finally decide that

                        matter.
37     recently in eastman v

                        australian capital territory [2008] actca 7, the

                    australian capital territory court of appeal observed that recent privy council

                    decisions that have departed from the english position ought not to be followed

                    and, instead, held that horwitz, which excluded

                    any review of procedural fairness, remained good law (at [38] and

                    [41]):
the cases cited by lander j suggest that courts in new zealand, south

                        australia and england have departed, or have considered departing, from the

                        traditional view identified above. that trend appears to have been driven by

                        two factors. the first is the availability of appeals to the privy council

                        from former colonies where the death penalty continues to be imposed. the

                        second is a perception that the application of general principles of

                        procedural fairness should not be limited by archaic notions concerning the

                        source of executive power. whilst we understand the

                            difficulties faced by members of the judicial committee in capital

                            cases, we are reluctant to treat those decisions as necessarily offering

                            a principled basis for departing from well-established legal

                            propositions. similarly, we are not persuaded that we may

                        depart from the decision in horwitz v connor

                        in the interests of promoting a consistent body of administrative law. until

                        the high court holds to the contrary, the decision in horwitz v connor is binding upon us.
...
the observations made by lord diplock in de

                            freitas suggest that the traditional view is that there is no

                        obligation to extend procedural fairness to an applicant for exercise of the

                        prerogative of mercy. review of the kind contemplated in s 34b of the

                        supreme court act is not generally “on the merits”. any

                        relevant error will usually be as to jurisdiction or in the process leading

                        to the decision. given the restrictive view of judicial review which

                        prevailed at the time, it is unlikely that in horwitz v

                            connor, griffith cj meant simply to exclude merits

                        review.
[emphasis added]
38     the court also cautioned against the view

                    taken in burt v governor-general that the

                    prerogative of mercy “has become an integral element in the criminal

                    justice system, a constitutional safeguard against mistakes” because

                    adopting such an interventionist view would be “to depart from received

                    views as to the separation of powers which have emerged over the last three

                    hundred years” (at [39]). ultimately, the court did not find it necessary

                    to definitively re-examine the question of justifiability in light of the clear

                    decision in horwitz and the applicant’s

                    failure on the merits (at [43]).
malaysia
39     the position in malaysia on the question

                    whether the clemency process is subject to judicial review is particularly

                    relevant because article 22p was adopted from article 42 of the malaysian

                    federal constitution (“article 42”). when singapore became an

                    independent republic in 1965, article 42 ceased to apply to singapore and the

                    power to grant pardon by the president of singapore was preserved under s 8 of

                    the republic of singapore independence act (1985 rev ed) which was

                    subsequently enshrined in the constitution as article 22p. given that article

                    22p owes its origin to article 42, reference to the malaysian experience on this

                    issue would therefore be both essential and helpful.
40     the malaysian courts have consistently adopted

                    the position in a series of decisions that both the decision for pardon and its

                    decision making process are not justiciable. beginning with the decision in

                        sim kie chon v superintendent of pudu prison

                    [1985] 2 mlj 385, (“sim kie chon

                        (no 1)”) the malaysian supreme court affirmed the

                    decision of the high court in striking out the plaintiff’s claim that the

                    pardon board had failed to properly consider his petition for mercy and had

                    therefore acted unconstitutionally. specifically, the supreme court cited the

                        gchq case and concluded (at 386) that the

                    power of pardon is:

... a power of high prerogative of mercy which is an

                            executive act but by its very nature is not an act susceptible or

                            amenable to judicial review.
41     it then went on to cite with approval an

                    earlier malaysian federal court decision in public prosecutor

                        v lim hiang seoh [1979] 2 mlj 170 where suffian lp

                    observed:
when considering whether to confirm, commute, remit or pardon, his majesty does not sit as a court, is entitled to take into

                            consideration matters which courts bound by the law of evidence cannot

                            take into account, and decides each case on grounds of public policy;

                            such decisions are a matter solely for the executive. we cannot confirm

                            or vary them; we have no jurisdiction to do so. the royal

                        prerogative of mercy, as is recognised by its inclusion in chapter 3 of part

                        iv of the constitution, is an executive power as in jamaica, hinds v the queen.
[emphasis added]
42     undaunted by the decision, the prisoner, sim

                    kie chon commenced another suit seeking a declaration that pardon board was not

                    lawfully constituted and therefore its decision was legally ineffective. it

                    further claimed that the pardon board had acted unfairly and in breach of the

                    rules of natural justice. the malaysian supreme court in superintendent of pudu prison v sim kie chon [1986]

                    1 mlj 494 (“sim kie chon

                        (no 2)”), after having reviewed the legal position in

                    england (hanratty), in australia (horwitz) and the privy council decision in de freitas v benny, reiterated its earlier decision that

                    “when the constitution has empowered the nation’s highest executive

                    as the repository of the clemency power, the court cannot intervene and judicial

                    review is excluded by implication”. i pause to observe that the malaysian

                    supreme court in both sim kie chon (no 1) and sim kie

                        chon (no 2) were concerned with the decision making process

                    given the nature of the challenge. consistent with its decision that the

                    clemency process was not justiciable, the malaysian supreme court in sim kie chon (no 2) went on to hold (at 498) that

                    the rules of natural justice were not applicable to the clemency process because

                    to hold otherwise, would:
in effect be countenancing the respondent`s participation in the exercise

                        of an executive and prerogative power and virtually reactivating a concluded

                        trial. it follows sequentially that if it is, open to a court to examine the

                        advice of the pardons board there would then in effect be an extra-curial

                        retrial and endless reventilation of every convict’s case.
43     the non-reviewability of the clemency process

                    was reaffirmed in karpal singh v sultan of

                        selangor [1988] 1 mlj 64 (“karpal singh”). in that case, the sultan of selangor made

                    a public statement that he would not pardon anyone who has been sentenced to the

                    mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking. the applicant applied for a

                    declaration that the public statement was in violation of article 42 since the

                    sultan had effectively pre-determined that all

                    drug traffickers facing the death sentence were not suitable for clemency.

                    yong’s challenge in the present application that the minister’s

                    statement had prejudged his clemency petition bears some resemblance to the

                    challenge in karpal singh. however, the

                    application was struck off since clemency process not being reviewable, the

                    action was held to be frivolous, vexatious and an abuse of the process of the

                    court.
44     finally, the malaysian federal court recently

                    applied the same principle in juraimi bin husin v pardons

                        board, state of pahang [2002] 4 mlj 529 to strike out

                    an application to review the decision making process of the sultan of pahang in

                    rejecting the prisoner’s clemency petition after a lapse of almost two

                    years.
45     the consistent thread which runs through all

                    the malaysian decisions is the concurrence that “mercy is not the subject

                    of legal rights. it begins where legal rights end” and that the power of

                    high prerogative of mercy is an executive act which by its nature and content is

                    not amenable to judicial review.
the caribbean
46     the position in the caribbean was, until

                    recently, consistent with that in england. i shall first review some of the

                    earlier privy council decisions from the caribbean and then examine the

                    circumstances that led to the recent change. the first noteworthy decision is

                    the privy council decision of de freitas v benny

                    which pre-dated the gchq case and bentley. lord diplock delivered the judgment and held

                    that under the constitution of trinidad and tobago, the position in relation to

                    the clemency process was identical to the english position in its entirety, save

                    for the identity of the parties involved. further, it was held that a convicted

                    person had no right to the materials furnished to the minister and advisory

                    committee because, previously in england, the home secretary’s practice of

                    calling for a report from the trial judge was simply a practice that did not

                    give rise to a legal right (at 247–248):

except in so far as it may have been altered by the

                            constitution the legal nature of the exercise of the royal prerogative

                            of mercy in trinidad and tobago remains the same as it was in england at

                            common law. at common law this has always been a matter which

                        lies solely in the discretion of the sovereign, who by constitutional

                        convention exercises it in respect of england on the advice of the home

                        secretary to whom her majesty delegates her discretion. mercy is not the

                        subject of legal rights. it begins where legal rights end. a convicted

                        person has no legal right even to have his case considered by the home

                        secretary in connection with the exercise of the prerogative of mercy. in

                        tendering his advice to the sovereign the home secretary is doing something

                        that is often cited as the exemplar of a purely discretionary act as

                        contrasted with the exercise of a quasi-judicial function. while capital punishment was still a lawful penalty for murder

                            in england it was the practice of the home secretary in every capital

                            case to call for a report of the case from the trial judge and for such

                            other information from such other sources as he thought might help him

                            to make up his mind as to the advice that he would tender to the

                            sovereign in the particular case. but it never was the

                        practice for the judge's report or any other information obtained by the

                        home secretary to be disclosed to the condemned person or his legal

                        representatives.
[emphasis added]
47     in thomas reckley v

                        minister of public safety and immigration (no 2)

                    [1996] 1 ac 527 (“reckley

                        (no 2)”), the applicant sought to persuade the privy

                    council that the time was ripe for the clemency process to be subjected to

                    judicial review. however, the privy council, after referring to the gchq case, bentley and

                        burt v governor-general (at 540–541),

                    held that the legal position as decided in de freitas v

                        benny remained good law (at 542). it accordingly held that the

                    minister’s discretion in relation to his advice on the clemency process

                    remained personal and non-reviewable. furthermore, it was held that a convicted

                    person had no legal right to make representations for the purpose of clemency.

                    lord goff of chieveley emphasised that the constitution of bahamas had

                    sufficient safeguards in place, and that there was therefore no need for the

                    courts to play a supervisory role over the exercise of the minister’s

                    personal discretion (at 542):
in this connection their lordships wish to stress the nature of the

                        constitutional safeguard which the introduction of the advisory committee

                        has created. on the committee, the designated minister and the

                        attorney-general will be joined by a group of people nominated by the

                        governor-general. these will, their lordships are confident, be men and

                        women of distinction, whose presence, and contribution, at the heart of the

                        process will ensure that the condemned man's case is given, and is seen by

                        citizens to be given, full and fair consideration. such people as these will

                        expect to be provided with all relevant material, including any material

                        supplied by or on behalf of the condemned man; and in the most unlikely

                        event that the responsible civil servants do not place such material before

                        them, they are perfectly capable of making the necessary inquiries.

                            it is plain to their lordships that those who drew

                            the constitution of the bahamas were well aware of the personal nature

                            of the discretion to be exercised by the minister and the consequent

                            absence of any supervisory role by the courts, but also considered that,

                            by introducing an advisory committee with the constitution and functions

                            specified in the constitution, they were providing a safeguard both

                            appropriate and adequate for the situation.
[emphasis added]
48     however, barely four years later, the privy

                    council did an about turn in the decision of neville lewis v

                        attorney-general of jamaica [2001] 2 ac 50 (“lewis”). lord slynn of hadley, who

                    delivered the majority judgment, held (at 76) that the reasoning in

                        reckley (no 2) no longer held

                    true:
on the face of it there are compelling reasons why a body which is

                        required to consider a petition for mercy should be required to receive the

                        representations of a man condemned to die and why he should have an

                        opportunity in doing so to see and comment on the other material which is

                        before that body. this is the last chance and in so far as it is possible to

                        ensure that proper procedural standards are maintained that should be done.

                        material may be put before the body by persons palpably biased against the

                        convicted man or which is demonstrably false or which is genuinely mistaken

                        but capable of correction. information may be available which by error of

                        counsel or honest forgetfulness by the condemned man has not been brought

                        out before. similarly if it is said that the opinion of

                            the jamaican privy council is taken in an arbitrary or perverse

                            way—on the throw of a dice or on the basis of a convicted man's

                            hairstyle—or is otherwise arrived at in an improper, unreasonable

                            way, the court should prima facie be able to

                        investigate.
are there special reasons why this should not be so?

in the reckley (no 2) case [1996] ac 527

                            much importance was attached to the composition of the advisory

                            committee on the prerogative of mercy. the experience, status,

                            independence of the members is no doubt an important feature of the

                            process. it provides a valuable protection and prevents the autocratic

                            rejection of a petition by one person. their lordships do not however

                            accept that this is a conclusive reason why judicial review should be

                            excluded. they may unconsciously be biased, there may still

                        be inadvertently a gross breach of fairness in the way the proceedings are

                        conducted.
49     lord slynn went on to declare that the common

                    law could be used to supplement the constitution and, accordingly, held that the

                    jamaican privy council were under a common law duty to consider representations

                    by a convicted person (at 78):
sir godfray le quesne on behalf of the interveners forcefully stressed

                        that the process of clemency is unique. it amounts to a power to dispense

                        with the normal application of the law—that is to carry out the

                        prescribed death penalty—and it involves an exceptional breadth of

                        discretion. these submissions are no doubt correct but in their

                        lordships’ view they are not inconsistent with a court insuring that

                        proper procedures are followed nor are they inconsistent with the privy

                        council of jamaica being required to look at what the condemned man has to

                        say any more than they are in principle inconsistent with a duty to consider

                        the judge's report. one is prescribed by statute the other is not. the question is whether the common law requires that other

                            material than the judge's report be looked at.
[emphasis added]
50     it appears that, in arriving at this decision,

                    the privy council was heavily influenced by the fact that jamaica had, on

                    7 august 1978, ratified the american convention on human rights 1969

                    which provides for the right to procedural fairness in the clemency process (at

                    78–79):

the importance of the consideration of a petition for

                            mercy being conducted in a fair and proper way is underlined by the fact

                            that the penalty is automatic in capital cases. the sentencing judge has

                            no discretion, whereas the circumstances in which murders are committed

                            vary greatly. even without reference to international

                        conventions it is clear that the process of clemency allows the fixed

                        penalty to be dispensed with and the punishment modified in order to deal

                        with the facts of a particular case so as to provide an acceptable and just

                        result. but in addition jamaica ratified the american

                            convention on human rights 1969 on 7 august 1978 and it is now well

                            established that domestic legislation should as far as possible be

                            interpreted so as to conform to the state's obligation under such a

                            treaty: matadeen v pointu

                        [1999] 1 ac 98, 114 g–h.

article 4 of the american convention on

                            human rights 1969 provides for the right to life. by paragraph

                            6:

“every person condemned to death shall have

                                the right to apply for amnesty, pardon or commutation of sentence,

                                which may be granted in all cases. capital punishment shall not be

                                imposed while such a petition is pending decision by the competent

                                authority.”

as to article 4 of the american convention the inter-american

                        court in paragraph 55 of its advisory opinion oc-3/83 (restrictions to the

                        death penalty), 8 september 1983 has said:
“thus, three types of limitations can be seen to be applicable

                            to states parties which have not abolished the death penalty. first, the

                            imposition or application of this sanction is subject to certain

                            procedural requirements whose compliance must be strictly observed and

                            reviewed. second, the application of the death penalty must be limited

                            to the most serious common crimes not related to political offenses.

                            finally, certain considerations involving the person of the defendant,

                            which may bar the imposition or application of the death penalty, must

                            be taken into account.”
whether or not the provisions of the convention are enforceable as such in

                        domestic courts, it seems to their lordships that the

                            states' obligation internationally is a pointer to indicate that the

                            prerogative of mercy should be exercised by procedures which are fair

                            and proper and to that end are subject to judicial

                        review.
[emphasis added]
51     lord hoffmann, the only judge in lewis who also sat on the privy council in the earlier

                    decision of reckley (no 2), issued a

                    dissenting judgment and noted that nothing had changed since reckley (no 2) to warrant the departure from settled law

                    (at 87-88):
these appeals concern the legality of the sentence of death which, in

                        accordance with the law of jamaica, has been passed upon six prisoners

                        convicted of murder. the questions raised are of the utmost importance, not

                        only for the prisoners whose lives are at stake but also for the

                        administration of justice in jamaica and the other commonwealth countries of

                        the caribbean. the board sits as a supreme court of

                            appeal to enforce their laws and constitutions. it is of course obvious

                            to the members of the board that they must discharge that duty without

                            regard to whether they personally favour the death penalty or not. but

                            the wider public may need to be reminded.
...
the board now proposes to depart from its recent decisions on all three

                        points. i do not think that there is any justification for doing so. it was

                        appropriate in reckley v minister of public safety and

                            immigration (no 2) [1996] ac 527 for the board

                        to review its previous decision in de freitas v

                            benny [1976] ac 239. twenty years had passed,

                        during which there had been important developments in administrative law. in

                        particular, the notion once entertained that an exercise of the prerogative

                        was, as such, immune from judicial review had been repudiated by the house

                        of lords in council of civil service unions v minister

                            for the civil service [1985] ac 374. it was

                        arguable that the reluctance of the courts to impose a general rule of audi

                        alterem partem upon the exercise of the prerogative of mercy was a mere

                        relic of outdated theory. but the board decided in the reckley (no 2) case that there were still, in modern

                        conditions, strong enough grounds for maintaining the old rule. in burt v governor general [1992] 3 nzlr 672

                        cooke p similarly decided that although there were no conceptual obstacles

                        to requiring the governor general to observe the principle of audi alterem

                        partem in exercising the prerogative of mercy, pragmatic considerations in

                        new zealand pointed the other way. the board in the reckley (no 2) case took the same view of conditions in

                        the caribbean in 1996. nothing has happened since then

                            which could justify revisiting the decision not to depart from de

                            freitas v benny [1976] ac 239.
[emphasis added]
52     it would thus appear that the current position

                    in the former british colonies in the caribbean region is that the clemency

                    process with regard to capital punishment is subject to judicial review.

                    further, the courts will go so far as to impose requirements of procedural

                    fairness such as the right to make representations, even though such

                    requirements are not provided for in their written constitutions. the key

                    justification for doing so is that these caribbean nations have ratified the

                    american convention on human rights 1969.
india
53     the present law in india on the reviewability

                    of the clemency process is found in the key decision of maru

                        ram v union of india 1981 (1) scc 107 (“maru ram”). prior to maru

                        ram, the position was that stated in g krishta goud v state of andhra pradesh

                    [1976] 2 scr 73 (“g krishta

                        goud”). in g krishta

                        goud the petitioners had sought to review the president’s

                    decision on the ground that he had not taken into account two factors, namely

                    that their offences were ‘political’ in nature, and the prevailing

                    trends against the death sentence.
54     although the supreme court of india observed

                    that there had previously been no definite pronouncement on the question of

                    justiciability in relation to the president's exercise of his power to pardon,

                    it found no reason to interfere with the manner in which the president had

                    exercised that power. it went on to comment (at 77), however, that in an

                    extreme situation, the courts would have to contemplate the suitability of

                    judicial review as a remedy:
we must however sound a note of caution. absolute, arbitrary,

                        law-unto-oneself mala fide execution of public power, if gruesomely

                        established, the supreme court may not be silent or impotent. assuming as

                        proved the case of a president gripped by communal frenzy and directing

                        commutation of all the penalties where the convict belongs to a certain

                        community and refusing outright where the convict belongs to a different

                        community, there may be, as shri garg urged, a dilemma for the court.

                        assuming the governor in exercising his power under art. 161 refusing to

                        consider cases of commutation where the prisoner is above 40 years of age as

                        a rule of thumb or arbitrarily out of personal vendetta rejecting the claim

                        of clemency of a condemned prisoner, is the court helpless? this large

                        interrogation is highly hypothetical and whether the remedy is in court or

                        by impeachment in parliament or by rising resentment in public opinion, it

                        is not for us to examine now. enough unto the day is the evil

                        thereof.
55     

          g krishta goud

                    therefore set the stage for a possible change in position should there be

                    evidence of abuse of the power of pardon. indeed the opportunity was seized in

                    the decision of maru ram where the supreme court

                    of india acknowledged that the constitutional powers of the indian president and

                    the state governors to pardon have their origins from the prerogative of mercy

                    in england. however it also noted that that was where their similarities end

                    (at 145):
the present provisions (sections 432 and 433) have verbal verisimilitude

                        and close kinship with the earlier code of 1898 (sections 401 and 402).

                        likewise, the constitutional provisions of today were found even in the

                        government of india act, 1935. of course, in english constitutional law, the

                        sovereign, acting through the home secretary, exercises the prerogative of

                        mercy. while the content of the power is the same even

                            under our constitution, its source and strength and, therefore, its

                            functional features and accountability are different. we will

                        examine this aspect a little later. suffice it to say that articles 72 and

                        161 are traceable to section 295 of the government of india act,

                        1935.
[emphasis added]
56     essentially, the supreme court in maru ram held that, while the merits of the decision to

                    pardon was not subject to judicial review, it had the jurisdiction to review its

                    decision making process. it held that the power to pardon, being a

                    constitutional power derived from the written constitution, was, like all public

                    powers, subject to judicial review, although on limited grounds

                    (at 147):
an issue of deeper import demands our consideration at this stage of the

                        discussion. wide as the power of pardon, commutation and release (arts. 72

                        and 161) is, it cannot run riot; for no legal power can run unruly like john

                        gilpin on the horse but must keep sensibly to a steady course. here, we come

                        upon the second constitutional fundamental which underlies the submissions

                        of counsel. it is that all public power, including

                            constitutional power, shall never be exercisable arbitrarily or mala

                            fide and, ordinarily, guidelines for fair and equal execution are

                            guarantors of the valid play of power. we proceed on the basis that

                            these axioms are valid in our constitutional order.
[emphasis added]
57     in maru ram, the

                    indian supreme court was concerned with the issue whether an amendment to the

                    indian criminal procedure code which mandated that remission for two categories

                    of offences could not be reduced below 14 years imprisonment was

                    unconstitutional. in that context, the indian supreme court approached the issue

                    by assuming that all public power including the

                    power to pardon could not be exercisable arbitrarily. further, it is clear from

                    the decision that the solicitor general of india also accepted the position and

                    therefore the point was not argued at all (at 146). significantly, the relevant

                    decisions from other jurisdictions on this issue were not considered by the

                    indian supreme court. in fact, the indian supreme court specifically observed

                    that “its source and strength and, therefore, its

                        functional features and accountability are different” from

                    that in england.
58     it appeared to me that the indian supreme

                    court, in carving out the limited circumstances under which it would review the

                    pardon process, was heavily influenced by the capricious exercise of the power

                    of pardon by some of the state governors and even the home minister

                    (at 149):
pardon, using this expression in the amplest connotation,

                        ordains fair exercise, as we have indicated above. political vendetta or

                        party favouritism cannot but be interlopers in this area. the order which is

                        the product of extraneous or mala fide factors will vitiate the exercise.

                        while constitutional power is beyond challenge, its actual exercise may

                        still be vulnerable. likewise, capricious criteria will void the exercise.

                            for example, if the chief minister of a state

                            releases every one in the prisons in his state on his birthday or

                            because a son has been born to him, it will an outrage on the

                            constitution to let such madness survive. we make these observations

                            because it has been brought to our notice that a certain home minister's

                            visit to a central jail was considered so auspicious an omen that all

                            the prisoners in the jail were given substantial remissions solely for

                            this reason. strangely enough, this propitious circumstance

                        was discovered an [sic] year later and

                        remission order was issued long after the minister graced the penitentiary.

                        the actual order passed on july 18, 1978 by the haryana government reads

                        thus:
“in exercise of the powers conferred under article 161 the

                            constitution of india, the governor of haryana grants special:

                            remissions on the same scale and terms as mentioned in govt. of india,

                            ministry of home affairs letter no. u. 13034/59/77 dated june 10, 1977

                            to prisoners who happened to be confined in central jail, tihar, new

                            delhi on 29th may, 1977, at the time of the visit of home minister govt.

                            of india, to the said jail and who has been convicted by the civil

                            courts of criminal jurisdiction in haryana state.
a.    banerjee
secretary to government of haryana jails department
dated: chandigarh,
july 18, 1978.”

push this logic a little further and the absurdity will

                            be obvious. no constitutional power can be vulgarised by personal

                            vanity of men in authority. likewise, if an opposition leader

                        is sentenced, but the circumstances cry for remission such as that he is

                        suffering from cancer or that his wife is terminally ill or that he has

                        completely reformed himself, the power of remission under arts. 72/161 may

                        ordinarily be exercised and a refusal may be wrong- headed. if, on the other

                        hand, a brutal murderer, blood-thirsty in his massacre, has been sentenced

                        by a court with strong observations about his bestiality, it may be arrogant

                        and irrelevant abuse of power to remit his entire life sentence the very

                        next day after the conviction merely because he has joined the party in

                        power or is a close relation of a political high-up. the

                            court, if it finds frequent misuse of this power may have to investigate

                            the discrimination. the proper thing to do, if government is

                        to keep faith with the founding fathers, is to make rules for its own

                        guidance in the exercise of the pardon power keeping, of course, a large

                        residuary power to meet special situations or sudden developments. this will

                        exclude the vice of discrimination such as may arise where two persons have

                        been convicted and sentenced in the same case for the same degree of guilt

                        but one is released and the other refused, for such irrelevant reasons as

                        religion, caste, colour or political loyalty.
59     the exercise of the power of pardon in india

                    continues to be controversial to this day. in a recent supreme court decision,

                    which was also cited by mr ravi, arijit pasayat j noted in epuru sudhakar v government of andhra pradesh (2006) 8

                    scc 161 (at 169–170) that:
[c]onsidering the fact that in large number of cases challenge is made to

                        the grant of pardon or remission, as the case may be, we had requested

                        mr sol j. sorabjee to act as amicus curiae. he has highlighted various

                        aspects relating to the grant of pardon and remission, as the case may be,

                        and the scope of judicial review in such matters. he has suggested that

                            considering the frequency with which pardons and/or

                            the remissions are being granted, in the present political scenario of

                            the country it would be appropriate for this court to lay down

                            guidelines so that there is no scope for making a grievance about the

                            alleged misuse of power.
[emphasis added]
60     in 2007, it was reported that the supreme

                    court had granted a stay of pardon after the governor of andhra pradesh had

                    generally pardoned 1,500 prisoners to commemorate 150 years of india’s

                    first war of independence. the position in india is therefore hugely affected by

                    local government politics, and the supreme court’s reaction to such abuses

                    of power was to subject such abuses to judicial review in order to limit the

                    grounds on which the powers can be exercised.
this court’s decision on the position in singapore
61     in singapore, as mr ravi correctly

                    pointed out, we adhere to the general principle laid down by the court of appeal

                    in chng suan tze v minister of home affairs [1988]

                    2 slr(r) 525 at [86] (“chng suan

                        tze”), that: “[a]ll power has legal limits and the

                    rule of law demands that the courts should be able to examine the exercise of

                    discretionary power.” in law society of singapore v

                        tan guat neo phyllis [2008] 2 slr(r) 239 at [148]

                    –[149], the court of appeal referred to this statement of principle in

                    observing that the constitutional power to prosecute is not unfettered, but is

                    judicially reviewable in exceptional cases.
62     in my respectful opinion, the principle of

                    legality so forcefully laid down in chng suan tze

                    must be right. however, it only says that the courts can, and must, police the

                    legal limits of a power. it says nothing about the legal limits of a particular

                    power. that can only be done on a case-by-case basis, having regard to the

                    nature of the power under examination and the constitutional or statutory

                    provision under which the power arises. in chng suan

                        tze, the power under examination was s 8(1) of the internal

                    security act (cap 143, 1985 rev ed) (“isa”), which

                    provided that “the minister shall make” a detention order

                    “if the president is satisfied with respect to any person that, with a

                    view to preventing that person from acting in any manner prejudicial to the

                    security of singapore ..., it is necessary to do so”. the court of appeal

                    decided (at [30]) that the requirement that the president be satisfied meant

                    exactly that, and therefore, in order to demonstrate a valid exercise of the

                    power in s 8(1), it must be shown that the president was in fact

                    satisfied.
63     the power under examination here is article

                    22p. just as the court of appeal in chng suan tze

                    examined s 8(1) of the isa by reference to its plain wording, an examination of

                    article 22p must begin in the same way. the clemency process under

                    article 22p (2) mandates that:
where any offender has been condemned to death by the sentence of any

                        court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has been confirmed by the

                        appellate court, the president shall cause the reports which are made to him

                        by the judge who tried the case and the chief justice or other presiding

                        judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the attorney-general with

                        instructions that, after the attorney-general has given his opinion thereon,

                        the reports shall be sent, together with the attorney-general’s

                        opinion, to the cabinet so that the cabinet may advise the president on the

                        exercise of the power conferred on him by clause (1).
i can accept that if a sentenced person is able to show that the

                    reports are not furnished, or not sent to the attorney-general, or if the

                    cabinet does not advise the president, some judicial remedy must lie. in those

                    limited situations, such a sentenced person is entitled to apply for review on

                    the basis that the clear requirements laid down in article 22p have not been

                    satisfied. however, in my view, the relief is only limited to require that the

                    relevant reports be submitted to the attorney-general for him to provide his

                    opinion and thereafter for the cabinet to advise the president on the exercise

                    of the power of pardon accordingly. for reasons explained in further detail

                    below (see [82]–[84] below), the applicant is not entitled to have

                    access to the reports by the courts, opinion by the attorney-general or the

                    advice by the cabinet. but once the analysis moves beyond the plain wording of

                    article 22p, i think the court should be very cautious in implying legal limits

                    to the power to grant pardons. at the very least, the implied limits to the

                    power cannot derogate from its nature as evinced from its expressed aspects.

                    otherwise the court will be moving beyond the bounds of legitimate

                    interpretation into illegitimate legislation. as a general proposition i think

                    this is uncontroversial.
64     it is therefore necessary to look at the

                    nature of the pardon in article 22p in deciding whether or not to imply legal

                    limits upon it. the express provisions of article 22p precisely describe the old

                    english practice where mercy was a prerogative exercised by the sovereign on the

                    advice of his or her ministers and, where as a matter of practice, advice was

                    also taken by the responsible minister from the attorney-general and the courts.

                    in addition, there are no express words delimiting the substantive grounds on

                    which the power in article 22p may be exercised or not exercised. in my

                    judgment, therefore, while the constitution has removed the power to grant

                    pardons from the realm of prerogative and placed it firmly within the realm of

                    law, it is nevertheless clear that the discretion afforded in deciding whether

                    or not to exercise the power remains very wide indeed. to borrow the words of

                    lord diplock in de freitas v benny, article 22p is

                    very much a power that begins where the law ends. i am fortified in this

                    conclusion by the weight of the judicial opinion which i have surveyed. of all

                    the jurisdictions that i have looked at, only jamaica and india have permitted

                    judicial review of the substantive grounds on which pardons were granted or

                    refused. the jamaican position is based on the premise that the clemency process

                    ameliorates the problems with a mandatory death penalty. it is therefore

                    inapplicable to singapore, where the court of appeal has held, in a challenge

                    brought by yong himself, that the mandatory death penalty is perfectly

                    constitutional. the jamaican position is also based on that jurisdiction’s

                    ratification of the american convention on human rights 1969, a treaty which

                    does not apply in the singapore context.
65     as for india, the courts there plainly thought

                    that such gross abuses of power had occurred in the clemency process, such that

                    they were compelled to intervene. however, mr ravi is not arguing that this

                    is the case here and the indian authorities are therefore

                irrelevant.
66     finally, mr ravi also submitted that all

                    the decisions relied on by the attorney-general in support of the proposition

                    that the clemency process is not justiciable are distinguishable as they only

                    concerned the merits of the pardon and not the decision making process. after

                    examining those authorities, i am satisfied that that was not the case. in fact,

                    it was clear that the courts have consistently declined to review the process of

                    the exercise of the prerogative of mercy on any ground at all.
67     for the reasons which follow, i am also of the

                    view that article 22p is not justiciable on the grounds raised by mr ravi,

                        viz:
(a)that it is the president, and not the cabinet,

                            who should exercise the power to grant pardons;
(b)that the clemency process is tainted because the

                            cabinet has pre-judged yong’s case, as evidenced by the

                            minister’s statement; and
(c)that yong has a right to see the materials before

                            the cabinet.
i shall address each in turn.
whether the power to grant pardons resides with the

                president
68     i can accept that if the power to grant pardon

                    is exercised by an officer or institution other than the one provided for in the

                    constitution, a judicial remedy must lie. but, on the proper interpretation of

                    the constitution, i am equally of the view that the power to grant pardons

                    resides with the cabinet and not the president.
69     under the constitution, the default position

                    is that the president acts in accordance with the advice of the cabinet or a

                    minister acting under the general authority of the cabinet. this is specifically

                    provided for under article 21(1) of the constitution:

discharge and performance of functions of

                            president

21. —(1) except as provided by this constitution, the president

                        shall, in the exercise of his functions under this constitution or any other

                        written law, act in accordance with the advice of the

                            cabinet or of a minister acting under the general authority of the

                            cabinet.
[emphasis added]
the exceptions to this default position are exhaustively set out in

                    article 21(2), which provides that the president may act in his discretion for

                    the following functions:
(2) the president may act in his

                            discretion in the performance of the following

                        functions:
(a) the appointment of the prime minister in accordance with article

                            25;
(b) the withholding of consent to a request for a dissolution of

                            parliament;
(c) the withholding of assent to any bill under article *5a, 22e, 22h,

                            144 (2) or 148a;
*article 5a was not in operation at the date of this reprint.
(d) the withholding of concurrence under article 144 to any guarantee

                            or loan to be given or raised by the government;
(e) the withholding of concurrence and approval to the appointments

                            and budgets of the statutory boards and government companies to which

                            articles 22a and 22c, respectively, apply;
(f) the disapproval of transactions referred to in article 22b (7),

                            22d (6) or 148g;
(g) the withholding of concurrence under article 151 (4) in relation

                            to the detention or further detention of any person under any law or

                            ordinance made or promulgated in pursuance of part xii;
(h) the exercise of his functions under section 12 of the maintenance

                            of religious harmony act (cap. 167a); and
(i) any other function the performance of which the president is

                            authorised by this constitution to act in his discretion.
...
(5) the legislature may by law make provision to require the

                        president to act after consultation with, or on the recommendation of, any

                        person or body of persons other than the cabinet in the exercise of his

                        functions other than —
(a) functions exercisable in his discretion; and
(b) functions with respect to the exercise of which provision is made

                            in any other provision of this constitution.
[emphasis added]
70     mr ravi submitted that based on the

                    saving clause under article 21(2)(i), the

                    president may act in his own discretion to grant pardons since the discretion to

                    do so is vested with the president and not the cabinet under article 22p.

                    however on a plain reading of article 22p(1), it is clear that the president

                    does not have any discretion and can only act on the advice of the cabinet in

                    granting a pardon to a convicted offender:
22p. —(1) the president, as occasion shall arise, may, on the advice of the cabinet —
(a) grant a pardon to any accomplice in any offence who gives information

                        which leads to the conviction of the principal offender or any one of the

                        principal offenders, if more than one;
(b) grant to any offender convicted of any offence in any court in

                        singapore, a pardon, free or subject to lawful conditions, or any reprieve

                        or respite, either indefinite or for such period as the president may think

                        fit, of the execution of any sentence pronounced on such offender; or
(c) remit the whole or any part of such sentence or of any penalty or

                        forfeiture imposed by law.
(2) where any offender has been condemned to death by the sentence of any

                        court and in the event of an appeal such sentence has been confirmed by the

                        appellate court, the president shall cause the reports which are made to him

                        by the judge who tried the case and the chief justice or other presiding

                        judge of the appellate court to be forwarded to the attorney-general with

                        instructions that, after the attorney-general has given his opinion thereon,

                        the reports shall be sent, together with the attorney-general’s

                        opinion, to the cabinet so that the cabinet may advise

                            the president on the exercise of the power conferred on him by clause

                            (1).
[emphasis added]
71     consistent with the default position under

                    article 21(1) and the saving clause under article 21(2)(i), the president is only empowered to act in his own discretion

                    in situations other than those spelt out in article 21(2) where they are

                    specifically provided for under the constitution. such situations under the

                    constitution include:

moneys of the central provident fund

22e. the president, acting in his

                        discretion, may withhold his assent to any bill passed by

                        parliament which provides, directly or indirectly, for varying, changing or

                        increasing the powers of the central provident fund board to invest the

                        moneys belonging to the central provident fund.

...

president may withhold assent to certain

                            bills

22h. —(1) the president may, acting in his

                            discretion, in writing withhold his assent to any bill (other

                        than a bill seeking to amend this constitution), if the bill or any

                        provision therein provides, directly or indirectly, for the circumvention or

                        curtailment of the discretionary powers conferred upon the president by this

                        constitution.
...

restraining order under maintenance of religious

                            harmony act

22i. the president, acting in his

                        discretion, may cancel, vary, confirm or refuse to confirm a

                        restraining order made under the maintenance of religious harmony act (cap.

                        167a) where the advice of the cabinet is contrary to the recommendation of

                        the presidential council for religious harmony.
[emphasis added]
it is clear that the framework under the constitution is such that in

                    situations where the president is empowered to act in his own discretion, the

                    relevant provision provides for the president “acting

                        in his discretion”. this is to be contrasted with article

                    22p where a contrary intention appears from the use of the words

                        “may, on the advice of the

                    cabinet”.
72     i therefore hold that the president has no

                    discretion under the constitution, and specifically under article 22p, to grant

                    pardons. the power to do so rests solely with the cabinet.
apparent bias arising from pre-determination
73     i turn next to mr ravi’s argument

                    that the minister’s statement as well as the press release by the ministry

                    of law demonstrate that the cabinet had pre-determined the outcome prior to

                    receipt of his clemency petition. yong submitted that such pre-determination

                    constitutes apparent bias. this would require an examination of the following

                    issues:
(a)whether the minister’s statement and the

                            press release by the ministry of law indicated a pre-determination of

                            the outcome of the clemency petition to be filed by yong;
(b)if the answer to (a) above is in the affirmative,

                            whether such pre-determination in the context of the case would give

                            rise to reasonable suspicion of bias.
apparent bias
74     it is more convenient to deal with apparent

                    bias first. in this application, the fatal difficulty with apparent bias is that

                    it is a test designed to apply to judicial or quasi-judicial institutions. this

                    is evident from the very test for apparent bias – “whether a

                    reasonable and fair-minded person sitting in the court and knowing all the

                    relevant facts would have had a reasonable suspicion that a fair trial was not

                    possible” (see re shankar alan s/o anant

                        kulkarni [2007] 1 slr(r) 85 (“re shankar”) at [77]). the rationale for this

                    ground of review is that there is a vital public interest in ensuring that

                    justice is manifestly and undoubtedly seen to be done. it bears explanation that

                    this is a vital public interest because the judiciary is not elected and

                    litigants have no recourse against it if they lose. in order for the system to

                    function, it is therefore of paramount importance that the judiciary strives to

                    conduct itself in such a way as to maintain the confidence of the public in the

                    administration of justice. at the very least, when a judge fails in this duty,

                    his error must be capable of correction by other judges.
75     separately, the court is bound to only

                    consider the law and the facts in reaching its decision. any predisposition to

                    consider anything else is therefore impermissible. the substantive scope of

                    apparent bias is correspondingly robust in the sense that it precludes

                    consideration of anything other than the law and the facts and, even then, a

                    judge cannot be “so committed to a conclusion already formed as to be

                    incapable of alteration, whatever evidence or arguments may be presented”

                    (see minister for immigration and multicultural affairs v jia

                        legeng [2001] 205 clr 507 (“jia

                        legeng”) at 532).
76     these reasons do not apply to acts by the

                    executive branch. as a general proposition, it is self-evident that the

                    executive is entitled to formulate and act in accordance with policy, which is

                    wide-ranging by its very nature and difficult to evaluate in accordance with

                    objective legal criteria. separately, the vital need for public confidence in

                    the administration of justice does not obtain in quite the same way for

                    executive action. i agree with mr chong’s submission that in our

                    westminster-modelled system, the leaders of the executive are chosen from the

                    elected ranks of parliament and, together with the rest of the elected members,

                    are accountable to the electorate at the ballot box. if the executive fails to

                    inspire public confidence, its leaders will pay the price at the ballot box.

                    there is no need for the court to interpose in this dynamic a requirement that

                    the executive acts in an “apparently unbiased” way from the

                    perspective of a hypothetical fair-minded person. the real persons that make up

                    the electorate can apply whatever metric they think appropriate in evaluating

                    the decisions which the executive has made.
77     this distinction was also recognised in

                        jia legeng at 539:
as the circumstances of the radio interview demonstrate, the minister

                        himself can be drawn into public debate about a matter in respect of which

                        he may consider exercising his powers… the position of the minister

                        is substantially different from that of a judge, or quasi-judicial officer,

                        adjudicating in adversarial litigation. it would be wrong to apply to his

                        conduct the standards of detachment which apply to judicial officers or

                        jurors.
in hot holdings pty ltd v creasy [2002]

                    hca 51 at 70, the high court of australia emphasised the importance of being

                    sensitive to the context of the relevant decision maker in question. the court

                    stressed that while the test remains “reasonable suspicion of

                    bias”, the content of the test may be different when applied to a

                    minister:
[a] minister would be entitled to act in accordance with governmental

                        policy when making a decision. thus, it will ordinarily be very difficult to

                        impute bias or the reasonable suspicion of bias to the decision of a

                        minister who has considered all applications on their merits but made it

                        clear that preference would be given to applicants who complied with

                        government policy.
a similar observation was made by sundaresh menon jc in re shankar at [80].
78     in this case, i would go further. the power in

                    article 22p begins when the judicial process has ended and there are no

                    substantive criteria which delimit the grounds on which it can be exercised or

                    not exercised. it is eminently a discretionary power which can be exercised on

                    wide ranging grounds of policy, and in my judgment it might well be impossible

                    to articulate a justiciable conception of proper behaviour against which any

                    exercise or non-exercise of the power can be said to be apparently biased.

                    certainly, the minister’s statement, which only articulated the

                    government’s policy on the death sentence as a deterrent against drug

                    trafficking, cannot by any measure be said to evince such apparent

                bias.
pre-determination
79     the analysis with regard to pre-determination

                    is more nuanced. as a general proposition, it can be said that a grantee of a

                    discretionary power must actually exercise the discretion, ie consider the full range of relevant material, before reaching

                    a decision. more particularly, with reference to article 22p(2), it can be said

                    that if the cabinet reaches a decision before the mandated reports are presented

                    to it, this would short-circuit the constitutionally prescribed process and

                    therefore amount to an improper pre-determination. one thing, however, is clear

                    – the most that can be said of these points is that the cabinet must

                        subjectively consider the materials prescribed

                    by article 22p(2) before arriving at a decision. as for objective criteria, the

                    same reasons which i mentioned in the context of apparent bias apply with equal

                    force here – the highly discretionary nature of the power to grant pardons

                    defies review by objective and substantive legal criteria, and even if such

                    review was possible, there would be nothing objectionable or irrational about

                    the policy articulated by the minister.
80     the factual question, then, is whether the

                    cabinet had subjectively pre-determined

                    yong’s imminent second petition for clemency even before his fresh

                    petition was filed. the minister was reported to have said “yong vui kong

                    is young. but if we say ‘we let you go’, what is the signal we are

                    sending?” yong submitted that the remarks taken at face value indicated

                    that the cabinet had already decided not to grant clemency to him even before

                    filing his fresh clemency petition. the minister’s statement must however

                    be viewed against the context. yong was convicted and sentenced to death on 14

                    november 2008. although he appealed against both conviction and sentence, he

                    subsequently withdrew the appeal on 29 april 2009. thereafter, he filed the

                    first petition on 11 august 2009. the first petition was rejected by the

                    president on 20 november 2009. under article 22p of the constitution, the

                    rejection of the first petition would have been on the advice of the cabinet.

                    therefore, it was plain that the cabinet had previously considered yong’s

                    clemency petition and had advised the president to reject it. the principal

                    ground relied on in the first petition was yong’s age/youth. he was 19

                    years old at the time of the offence. again, it is plain that this particular

                    ground was rejected. further, during the hearing before me, i sought

                    clarification from mr ravi whether yong would be relying on additional

                    grounds for the fresh clemency petition which were not covered in the first

                    petition. mr ravi clarified that yong would essentially be relying on the

                    same grounds, ie his age/youth. in the

                    circumstances, given that the cabinet had already advised the president to

                    reject yong’s first petition some six months prior to the minister’s

                    statement and/or the press release, and the fact that yong does not intend to

                    raise new grounds in his second clemency petition, in my view, there was no

                    question of pre-determination. in any event, i can see nothing objectionable

                    about the minister’s statement, which only restated the cabinet’s

                    policy that the age of the offender per se should

                    not be a ground for the exercise of clemency for drug trafficking convictions. i

                    cannot infer from the minister’s statement that the cabinet will not even

                        subjectively consider yong’s second

                    petition and the materials put before it by virtue of article 22p(2) when it

                    next advises the president.
81     mr ravi’s arguments on the apparent

                    bias and pre-determination points, whether taken singly or together, must

                    therefore fail.
whether yong has a right to the materials that will be before the

                cabinet 
82     i come now to mr ravi’s final

                    argument. it bears reiteration that mr ravi is arguing for an ex ante, substantive right to the materials that will be

                    before the cabinet, and not for the discovery of those materials in the pursuit

                    of some other substantive right. the distinction is vital, and appears to have

                    been overlooked by the privy council in lewis

                        (supra[48]) when it held that a sentenced person

                    should have access to the materials before the executive when it makes its

                    decision on clemency, so that the courts can investigate any allegation of

                    arbitrariness in the process. when a substantive right is argued to have been

                    infringed, as was the privy council’s concern in lewis, it is arguable that discovery of the relevant evidence

                    should lie as of right, and as a matter of procedure. when, as here, a

                    substantive right to information is alleged, quite independently of a breach of

                    any other right, there must be some other juristic basis. in this regard, the

                    only possible basis for a right to the materials before the cabinet is that such

                    a right is a corollary to a larger duty to act judicially in coming to a

                    decision. however, there can be no such duty. i have said several times in this

                    judgment that the power to grant pardons is an executive power which is highly

                    discretionary in nature. this excludes, by necessary implication, any duty to

                    act judicially. this analysis finds support in the very procedure stipulated in

                    article 22p(2), which prescribes a highly private process by which the relevant

                    materials ultimately come before the cabinet. even the courts whose reports are

                    prepared first, have no access to the attorney-general’s opinion or the

                    cabinet’s advice.
83     a similar conclusion was reached in de freitas v benny (supra

                    [46]) and, recently, in more detail in reckley

                        (no 2). in reckley (no 2)

                    lord goff of chieveley decided the question against the petitioner on two

                    grounds: that there was no standard of fairness by which the discretion of mercy

                    could be managed, and, in any event, the express provisions did not provide for

                    any right to the materials and to make representations

                    (at 541–542):
in their lordships’ opinion the petitioner faces similar

                        difficulties in respect of the alternative submission advanced on his

                        behalf, viz. that the principle of fairness required that he should be

                        entitled to make representations to the advisory committee and, for that

                        purpose, to see, or to be provided with the gist of, the material (including

                        the trial judge's report) which had been placed before the advisory

                        committee. in support of this proposition, reliance was placed on the

                        decision of the house of lords in reg. v. secretary of

                            state for the home department, ex parte doody [1994] 1 a.c.

                        531. that case was however concerned with a different subject matter, viz.

                        the exercise by the home secretary of his statutory power to release on

                        licence a person serving a sentence of life imprisonment. it was there held

                        that the home secretary was bound to afford a prisoner serving a mandatory

                        life sentence the opportunity to submit in writing representations as to the

                        penal element in the sentence which he must serve, and further that, to

                        enable those representations to be effective, he must make available to the

                        prisoner the gist of the material upon which he will found when making his

                        decision. what is important for present purposes, however, is that lord

                        mustill (with whose speech the remainder of the appellate committee agreed)

                        was careful, at p. 556g-h, to distinguish that case from a case in which the

                        prisoner is “essentially in mercy” where

                            there is “no ground to ascribe to him the rights which fairness

                            might otherwise demand:” see p. 556h. that is

                        precisely the present case. indeed it is clear from the

                            constitutional provisions under which the advisory committee is

                            established, and its functions are regulated, that the condemned man has

                            no right to make representations to the committee in a death sentence

                            case; and, that being so, there is no basis on which he is entitled to

                            be supplied with the gist of other material before the

                            committee. this is entirely consistent with a regime under

                        which a purely personal discretion is vested in the minister. of course the

                        condemned man is at liberty to make such representations, in which event the

                        minister can (and no doubt will in practice) cause such representations to

                        be placed before the advisory committee, although the condemned man has no

                        right that he should do so.
84     i therefore hold that yong has no right to see

                    the materials which will be before the cabinet when it advises the

                    president.
conclusion
85     in summary, the clemency process is not

                    justiciable on the grounds pursued by yong, because:
(a)the power to grant pardons under article 22p is

                            exercised by the cabinet, and not the president, who has no discretion

                            in the matter;
(b)apparent bias is not an available ground on which

                            to review the clemency process;
(c)there is no evidence of a pre-determination of

                            yong’s imminent petition; and
(d)there is no basis for a substantive right to the

                            materials which will be before the cabinet when it advises the president

                            on the clemency petition.
86     in the absence of any meritorious ground on

                    which judicial review can be sustained, yong’s application must be

                    dismissed. however, as the registry of the supreme court by letter dated 8 june

                    2010 had treated this application as a criminal matter since it arises from a

                    criminal appeal, i shall make no order as to costs for this

                application.
87     i should also point out that the 26 august

                    2010 limit for the filing of the petition of clemency is fast approaching and i

                    understand that this time limit imposed by the prison authorities is merely an

                    administrative one. in anticipation of the very likely decision by yong to

                    appeal against my judgment, i would respectfully invite the prison authorities

                    to extend the time limit for the filing of the fresh petition until such time as

                    the court of appeal reaches a decision.
88     it remains for me to express my appreciation

                    to, and commendation for, both counsel for the dedication and vigour which they

                    have shown in arguing their respective cases.
copyright © government of singapore.