shadrake alan

      v

      attorney-general

    [2011] sgca 26case number:civil appeal no 212 of 2010decision date:27 may 2011tribunal/court:court of appealcoram:

      andrew phang boon leong ja; 

      lai siu chiu j; 

      philip pillai j

    counsel name(s):

      ravi s/o madasamy (lf violet netto) for the appellant; 

      david chong gek sian sc and lim sai nei (attorney-general's chambers) for the respondent.

    parties:

      shadrake alan — 

      attorney-general

    
[lawnet editorial note: the decisions from which this appeal arose are reported at [2011] 2 slr 445 and [2011] 2 slr 506.]

        
27 may 2011judgment reserved.


        andrew phang boon leong ja (delivering the judgment of the

                court):
introduction
1       this is an appeal against the decisions of the

                    trial judge (“the judge”) in attorney-general v

                        shadrake alan [2011] 2 slr 445 (“shadrake 1”) and attorney-general

                        v shadrake alan [2011] 2 slr 506 (“shadrake 2”). in shadrake 1, the judge found mr alan shadrake

                    (“the appellant”) in contempt of court for eleven of the fourteen

                    impugned statements. in shadrake 2, the judge

                    sentenced the appellant to six weeks’ imprisonment and a fine of $20,000

                    (in default of which, two weeks’ imprisonment, to run consecutively to the

                    first term of imprisonment).
2       the present appeal raises – in some

                    instances for the very first time before this court – important issues

                    relating to the law of contempt which will need to be clarified before the

                    relevant principles are applied to the facts. foremost amongst these issues are

                    the fundamental ones relating to the test for

                        liability for contempt of court on the ground of scandalising the

                    judiciary (“scandalising contempt”) as well as what the judge

                    characterised as the defences to scandalising

                    contempt.
the factual background
3       this case arose from an application by the

                    attorney-general (“the respondent”) to commit the appellant, the

                    author of once a jolly hangman: singapore justice in the

                        dock (strategic information and research development centre,

                    2010) (“the book”), for contempt of court in relation to certain

                    passages contained in the book.
the decision below
the decision on liability
4       in the court below, the judge first undertook an

                    extensive and comprehensive survey of the singapore and commonwealth case law on

                    the applicable test for liability for scandalising contempt.
5       in the result, the judge departed from previous

                    decisions of the singapore high court with regard to the test for the actus reus in cases of scandalising contempt. the judge

                    did so in holding that the “real risk” test (viz, that the impugned statement must pose a real risk of

                    undermining public confidence in the administration of justice before it is held

                    to be contemptuous), in contradistinction to the “inherent

                    tendency” test, was to be applied in singapore (see shadrake 1 at [50]).
6       in so far as the test for mens rea was concerned, the judge held that the only mens rea needed for finding liability was that the

                    publication of the allegedly contemptuous statement was intentional; it was not

                    necessary to prove an intention to undermine public confidence in the

                    administration of justice (see shadrake 1 at

                        [55]).
7       turning to what the judge characterised as the

                        defences to scandalising contempt, the judge

                    considered that the defences of justification and fair comment in the law of

                    defamation were not applicable (see shadrake 1 at [59]–[69]),

                    although his position with regard to the defence of justification was, with

                    respect, unclear. the judge was of the view that the only defence to

                    scandalising contempt was that of fair criticism (see shadrake 1 at [70]–[76]).

                    according to the judge, in order to raise a defence of fair criticism, the

                    alleged contemnor must be able to show some objective basis for his contemptuous

                    statements, the cogency of the rational basis required to support his

                    allegations increasing correspondingly with the seriousness of the allegation

                    made (see shadrake 1 at [72]). the alleged contemnor must also be able

                    to show that the allegation was made in good faith, viz, that the alleged contemnor must genuinely believe in the

                    truth of the criticism he made (see shadrake 1 at [73]). the judge further held that the mere fact that the criticism

                    is in outspoken language does not mean that it should necessarily be penalised

                    (see shadrake 1 at [75]). he also surmised that, contrary to

                    english case law and earlier singapore cases, there should not be a limit on the

                    kind of criticisms which can be made against the court subject to the above

                    criteria being met (see shadrake 1 at

                        [76]). we pause to observe,

                    parenthetically, that the preferable approach might be to view the concept of fair criticism as going towards liability

                    rather than as an independent defence – a point which we will deal with in

                    more detail below (see generally at [59]–[86]).
8       applying the law to the facts, the judge held

                    that three of the statements (viz, the third,

                    sixth and twelfth statements, reproduced respectively at [92], [104] and [123] of

                        shadrake 1) did not amount to contempt,

                    whilst the remaining eleven statements were contemptuous and did not qualify for

                    the defence of fair criticism (see shadrake 1

                    at [133]–[136]).
the decision on sentence
9       the judge held that imprisonment would be the

                    norm for the author of a publication which scandalises the court (see shadrake 2 at [26]). this is because to constitute scandalising contempt, a

                    statement must not only pose a real risk of undermining public confidence in the

                    administration of justice but must also fall outside the ambit of fair criticism

                    – the satisfaction of these criteria ipso

                        facto making for a high degree of culpability (see shadrake 2 at [26]).
10     taking into account the high level of the

                    appellant’s culpability, including his stated intent to repeat his

                    contempt by publishing an expanded second edition of the book; previous

                    sentencing precedents (which were on the low end); the fact that the precise

                    extent of the book’s circulation in singapore was unclear; the fact that

                    the appellant was not a person with a credible and established reputation; and

                    the desire to signal that the courts have no interest in stifling legitimate

                    debate on the death penalty and other areas of the law, the judge sentenced the

                    appellant to six weeks’ imprisonment (see shadrake 2 at [42]).
11     further, to send a signal that those who hope

                    to profit from controversy by scandalising the court may expect to have their

                    profits disgorged by a stiff fine in addition to other punishment, the judge

                    imposed a $20,000 fine on the appellant, with two weeks’ imprisonment

                    in default (see shadrake 2 at [37] and [43]).
the issues
12     the main issues are relatively straightforward

                    and are encompassed within the following three grounds of appeal relied upon by

                    the appellant:
(a)     first, that the judge had erred in

                        his statement of the test for liability for scandalising contempt. in this

                        regard, the appellant contends that whilst the judge correctly adopted the

                            label of a “real risk” test,

                        he erred in defining the content of the said

                        test;
(b)     second,

                        that the judge had erred in his interpretation of the passages held to have

                        given rise to the contempt; and
(c)     third, that the sentence meted out by the judge was

                        manifestly excessive.
13     we will proceed to deal with each of these

                    issues seriatim. in dealing with the first issue,

                    we will address not only the test for liability for scandalising contempt but

                    also what the judge characterised as the possible defences to contempt. this

                    particular issue relates, in substance, to the applicable legal principles. the second issue involves the application of the relevant legal principles to the

                        facts of this case – in particular, the

                    impugned statements. at this point, viz, the

                    confluence of both law and fact, we arrive at the most significant aspect of the

                    present appeal, not least because of the very real effect it will have on the

                    result of the case in general and the appellant in particular. to this end, we

                    will undertake an analysis of each statement in relation to the relevant legal

                    principles. the third issue involves both the discussion of applicable legal

                    principles in relation to sentencing in the context of scandalising contempt, as

                    well as the application of those principles, if appropriate, to the facts of

                    this case. we use the phrase “if appropriate” because there is, of

                    course, the threshold issue of liability (which

                    falls within the purview of the first and second issues). put simply, before we

                    can even begin to consider the issue of sentence, liability for contempt on the part of the appellant must first

                    be established (and it is important to note – and, indeed, it is axiomatic

                    – that such liability must be established by the respondent beyond a reasonable doubt). if no liability for contempt

                    is established in the first place, then the issue of sentence does not need to

                    be considered. that is why we have left the discussion of the legal principles

                    relating to sentence to the final part of this

                    judgment.
14     let us now turn to consider the applicable

                    legal principles relating to the test for liability for scandalising contempt as

                    well as what the judge characterised as the possible defences

                available.
the legal principles
introduction
15     although counsel for the appellant,

                    mr m ravi (“mr ravi”), focused on the test for

                    liability for scandalising contempt, we will also deal with the possible

                    defences thereto because they are (as we shall see) directly relevant to the

                    facts of the present appeal. as already mentioned, however (at [7]), these possible defences, particularly fair

                    criticism, may be better viewed as going towards the issue of liability rather

                    than constituting independent defences as such (see also the detailed analysis

                    below at [59]-[86]).
16     before proceeding to deal with the applicable

                    legal principles with respect to liability for scandalising contempt, it would

                    be appropriate to provide some background on the law relating to

                    contempt.
17     at the most general level, it should be noted

                    that the law relating to contempt of court operates against the broader legal

                    canvass of the right to freedom of speech that is embodied both within

                    article 14 of the constitution of the republic of singapore (1985 rev

                    ed, 1999 reprint) (“the constitution”) as well as the common

                    law. the issue, in the final analysis, is one of balance: just as the law relating to contempt of court ought not

                    to unduly infringe the right to freedom of speech, by the same token, that right

                    is not an absolute one, for its untrammelled abuse would be a negation of the

                    right itself. indeed, this last mentioned point is embodied in art 14(2) of

                    the constitution which provides that “parliament may by law impose

                    … restrictions designed to … provide against contempt of

                    court”. in this regard, the singapore parliament has in fact provided the

                    courts with the jurisdiction to punish for contempt in s 7(1) of the

                    supreme court of judicature act (cap 322, 2007 rev ed) (see also the

                    singapore high court decision of attorney-general v

                        lingle [1995] 1 slr(r) 199 (“lingle”) at [7]).
18     not surprisingly, such an approach (from

                    balance) is adopted in other jurisdictions as well. in the appeal committee of

                    the court of final appeal decision of wong yeung ng v

                        secretary for justice [1999] 3 hkc 143 (“wong yeung ng (cfa)”), for example,

                    litton pj, delivering the judgment of the majority, observed thus (at

                    147):
the constitutional right of free speech as contained in the basic law,

                        adopting the norms set out in the international covenant on civil and

                        political rights, is not an absolute right.

                            every civilized community is entitled to protect

                            itself from malicious conduct aimed at undermining the due

                            administration of justice. it is an

                            important aspect of the preservation of the rule of law.

                        where the contemnor goes way beyond reasoned criticism of

                            the judicial system and acts in bad faith, as the applicant

                        has done in this case, the guarantee of free speech

                            cannot protect him from punishment. [emphasis added]
19     contemptuous acts are generally classified

                    into two broad categories, viz, contempt by

                        interference and contempt by disobedience (see, eg,

                        you xin v public prosecutor [2007]

                    4 slr(r) 17 at [16]

                        (“you xin”)). the former

                    category (viz, contempt by interference) comprises

                    a wide range of matters such as: (1) disrupting the court process itself

                        (eg, contempt in the face of the court,

                    alternatively termed “ex facie

                    contempt”); (2) acts which risk prejudicing or interfering with

                    particular legal proceedings (“sub judice

                    contempt”); and (3) acts which interfere with the course of justice

                    as a continuing process (eg, publications which

                    “scandalise” the court and retaliation against witnesses for

                    having given evidence in proceedings which are concluded) (see generally,

                        eg, you xin at

                        [16] and the privy council decision

                    of mcleod v st aubyn [1899] ac 549 at 561). the

                    latter category (viz, contempt by disobedience)

                    consists in the disobedience of court orders as well as the breach of

                    undertakings given to the court (ibid).
20     the present appeal relates to a charge of

                    scandalising contempt which, as noted in the preceding paragraph, falls within

                    the first category, viz, contempt by

                    interference.
21     finally, an important point should be

                    emphasised. it is not new but is nevertheless of vital importance because it

                    undergirds the law relating to contempt in general and scandalising contempt in

                    particular. this relates to the very raison

                        d’être of the law of contempt. it is trite that the law

                    relating to contempt of court is not intended to

                    protect the dignity of judges. as lord atkin put it in the privy council

                    decision of ambard v attorney-general for trinidad and

                        tobago [1936] ac 322 at 335 (“ambard”), “justice is not a cloistered

                    virtue” but a public one. an act of scandalising contempt is a public

                    injury rather than a private tort, in so far as it involves undermining public

                    confidence in the administration of justice. in the words of this court in

                        pertamina energy trading ltd v karaha bodas co

                        llc [2007] 2 slr(r) 518 at [22] (“pertamina

                        energy trading”):
it is imperative to note … that the doctrine of

                        contempt of court is not intended, in any manner or fashion whatsoever, to

                        protect the dignity of the judges as such; its purpose is more objective and

                        is (more importantly) rooted in the public interest. as lord morris of

                        borth-y-gest put it in the house of lords decision of attorney-general v times newspapers ltd [1974] ac 273 (at

                        302) (“times

                        newspapers”):
in an ordered community courts are established for the pacific

                            settlement of disputes and for the maintenance of law and order. in the

                            general interests of the community it is imperative that the authority

                            of the courts should not be imperilled and that recourse to them should

                            not be subject to unjustifiable interference. when such unjustifiable

                            interference is suppressed it is not because those

                                charged with the responsibilities of administering justice are

                                concerned for their own dignity: it is because the very structure of

                                ordered life is at risk if the recognised courts of the land are so

                                flouted and their authority wanes and is

                            supplanted.
[emphasis in original]
22     put simply, the fundamental purpose underlying

                    the law relating to contempt of court in general and scandalising contempt in

                    particular is to ensure that public confidence in the

                        administration of justice is not undermined. indeed, this

                    fundamental purpose – which finds acceptance across all commonwealth

                    jurisdictions - has been reiterated time and again in the

                    singapore context (see, eg, pertamina energy trading (cited in the preceding paragraph); as

                    well as the singapore high court decisions of attorney-general v wong hong toy

                    [1983–1984] slr(r) 34 at [26]; attorney-general v zimmerman fred and

                        others [1985–1986] slr(r) 476 (“zimmerman”) at [9]; attorney-general v hertzberg

                        daniel [2009] 1 slr(r) 1103 (“hertzberg”) at [20]; and attorney-general v tan liang joo

                        john [2009] 2 slr(r) 1132 (“tan liang joo john”) at [11]).
23     we turn now to the test for liability for

                    scandalising contempt, viz, the actus reus and mens rea for the

                    offence. as the mens rea requirement is well

                    established, this judgment focuses instead on the actus

                        reus. that said, for the avoidance of doubt, the necessary

                        mens rea was succinctly and rightly enunciated

                    by the judge as follows (see shadrake 1 at

                        [55]; see also above at [6]):
there was no dispute that the only mens

                            rea which is needed at common law is that the publication is intentional; and that it is not

                        necessary to prove an intention to undermine public confidence in the

                        administration of justice. if authority is needed it can be found

                            in radio avon ( … )

                        at 232–234; ahnee ( … )

                        at 307; attorney-general for new south wales v

                            mundey ( … ) at 911–912.

                        [emphasis added]
the test for liability for scandalising contempt
introduction
24     although there are two main tests for

                    liability for scandalising contempt, viz the

                    “real risk” test and the “inherent tendency” test,

                    we note that mr ravi has attempted to introduce (in substance at least) a

                    third test (the “clear and present danger” test).
the “real risk” test
(1)   the test
25     the “real risk” test means

                    precisely what it says – that, before a statement can be held to be

                    contemptuous, it must pose a real risk of undermining public confidence in the

                    administration of justice. as the judge correctly pointed out, a statement which

                    only poses a remote possibility that public confidence in the administration of

                    justice would be undermined would not be held to

                    be contemptuous (see shadrake 1 at [51]).
26     the “real risk” test can in fact

                    be traced back to the english decision of r v duffy and

                        others, ex parte nash [1960] 2 qb 188 (“nash”), which related to a situation of sub judice contempt (see also above at [19]). in that case, lord parker cj held

                    that the test was whether there “was … a real

                        risk, as opposed to a remote possibility, that the article [in

                    question] was calculated to prejudice a fair hearing” (see nash at 200; emphasis added). the “real

                    risk” test was also applied in the house of lords decision of attorney-general v times newspapers ltd [1974] ac 273 at

                    298–299 (“times newspapers”),

                    where lord reid held that:
[the test pronounced by lord parker cj in nash requiring] a real risk, as opposed

                            to a remote possibility … [was an] …

                        application of the ordinary de minimis principle. there is no contempt if

                        the possibility of influence is remote. if there is some but only a small

                        likelihood, that may influence the court to refrain from inflicting any

                        punishment. if there is a serious risk some action may be necessary.

                        [emphasis added]
27     with regard to the “real risk”

                    test, the judge observed as follows in the court below (see shadrake 1 at [51]–[54]):
51    

              i should emphasise several

                                aspects of the test. first, a real risk, as defined in the cases, is

                                not to be equated with a serious or grave risk, but

                                merely something more than a

                                de minimis, remote or fanciful risk.

                                it must have substance, but need not be

                                substantial. a fortiori, it

                            is not necessary to show that public confidence was actually undermined

                            by the impugned publication. as lord reid made clear in his speech

                            in times newspapers, any degree of risk above the de

                                minimis level, including “a

                                small likelihood”, is a contempt, with the seriousness of the risk going only to

                                mitigation. for good measure, i should reiterate that the

                            facts of the singapore cases where the “inherent tendency”

                            test was applied –

                            viz wain, chee soon

                                juan ( … ),

                                hertzberg and tan liang joo

                            ( … ) – would have satisfied the “real

                            risk” test as i have stated it.
52    secondly, whether such a real risk is posed is

                                eminently an objective question of fact to be

                                determined in light of all the circumstances of the case,

                            including the author and nature of the publication and the scope of its

                            dissemination (wain), and bearing in mind

                            local conditions (badry

                            ( … )). in this last regard,

                                important considerations include the fact that we are a small,

                                crowded, multiracial and multi-religious nation, where information

                                travels rapidly and where social tensions, if developed and brought

                                to a boil, will rapidly propagate. some of the factors emphasised in the cases should also be borne in

                                mind. the first is that

                            raised in oriental press group

                            ( … ) at 659, that those who come

                                into contact with the impugned publication may not always be average

                                reasonable persons. they may be less rational, or, i should add,

                                they may be more discriminating. it is therefore not always

                                appropriate to assess the real risk to public confidence by

                                reference to the average reasonable person – the appropriate

                                reference point depends on the facts of each case. the

                                second consideration is that raised

                            in wong yeung ng ( … ) by

                            mortimer vp at 44, and by eames j in hoser ( … ) at [228] –

                            the court must consider what would happen if the

                                impugned publication was left unchecked. third, the authority and

                                credibility which the publication possess, or claims to

                                possess: see, eg, wain at [61] to [62] (article in a financial

                            paper of international repute, written by the president of a major news

                            organisation), and hoser at [218] (alleged

                            contemnor set himself up to be a person of eminence in the investigation

                            of corruption). finally, there is the fact that

                                judges in singapore are the sole arbiters of fact and law in cases

                                coming before the courts (wain).
53    

              thirdly, i would reiterate the

                                law is not concerned with the effect of the impugned publication on

                                the judge hearing the application to commit; it looks to the

                                potential effect on public confidence in the administration of

                                justice. if a judge finds that an impugned publication

                            poses a real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration

                            of justice, the publication is prima facie

                            in contempt even though the judge might personally take a more liberal

                            view of its contents. if a judge finds that the impugned publication

                            does not pose any real risk of undermining public confidence, he must

                            decline to commit, even though he is personally outraged by the

                            contents. similarly, the law is not concerned with the subjective

                            intentions or opinions of the author. the issue at

                                all times is the actual or potential effect on public

                                confidence.
54    

              fourthly, the requirement for a

                                real risk, while very wide, is not illusory. one example

                            is the hypothetical found in hertzberg

                            ( … ): if rants made at a dinner

                                party are shown to have been ignored, i cannot see that they would

                                pose a real risk to public confidence in the administration of

                                justice. another illustration can be found in the facts

                            of ex p attorney-general; re goodwin

                            (1969) 70 sr (nsw) 413, where a letter

                                circulated by a disappointed litigant to the attorney-general of new

                                south wales and 13 registrars of the district courts was found

                                to be in contempt. i am in no position to assess the situation in

                                australia or new south wales. but i am very certain that, should the

                                same letter be circulated to the attorney-general, or the registry

                                of the supreme court or the subordinate courts, it will not pose the

                                slightest risk of undermining public confidence in the

                                administration of justice. in fact, i should say from

                            personal experience that such letters are not

                                infrequently received by the registry of the supreme court, and

                                copied to holders of high public office such as the

                            attorney-general, ministers, and permanent secretaries, but the

                            attorney-general has not, quite correctly in my view, seen fit to take

                            action against them in the law of contempt.
[emphasis in italics in original; emphasis in bold italics added]
28     in our respectful view, the judge’s

                    elaboration of the “real risk” test in [51], viz, that

                    “a real risk, as defined in the cases, is not to be equated with a

                        serious or grave risk, but merely something more than a de

                        minimis, remote or fanciful risk” [emphasis added in bold

                    italics], gives rise to possible ambiguity. if what the judge meant was that a

                    “real risk” was not to be equated with “a serious or grave

                    risk” inasmuch as the latter connotes a “clear and present

                    danger”, this would be consistent with our rejection of the “clear and present danger” test

                    for the reasons set out below (at [38]–[50]). however,

                    it is possible to interpret the judge’s elaboration in a different way,

                    for he observed in the same paragraph ([51]), citing lord reid in times

                        newspapers, that “any degree of risk

                        above the de minimis level,

                        including “a small likelihood”,

                    amounts to contempt, with the seriousness of the risk going

                        only to mitigation” [emphasis added in bold italics], and

                    repeated this observation in [77]. if

                    this was the meaning intended by the judge, it should be borne in mind that

                    there is an argument to the contrary, viz, that

                    “a small likelihood” of risk would

                        not, ex

                        hypothesi, constitute a “real risk” within the meaning of the “real

                    risk” test (cf the approach of brooke and

                    dubin jja in the ontario court of appeal decision of r v

                        kopyto (1988) 47 dlr (4th) 213 (“kopyto”), where a “serious risk” test was endorsed. kopyto is discussed in greater detail below at [43]-[44]). while it is uncertain as to which meaning the judge

                    intended to attribute to the requirement of “real risk”, it is

                    clear that his elaboration in [51] was

                    based on a recognition of the signal importance of ensuring that public

                    confidence in the administration of justice is not undermined.
29     in the final analysis, although the two

                    contrasting approaches toward the “real risk” test described

                    briefly in the preceding paragraph are interesting, we are of the view that it

                    would be not be helpful to attempt an elaboration (especially a theoretical one)

                    of the “real risk” test. we state this with great respect to the

                    judge but the brief analysis above demonstrates the very real danger of semantic

                    analysis trumping practical factual considerations. the difficulty in seeking to

                    elaborate on this particular test in the abstract is obvious once we recognise

                    that the test cannot be divorced from the factual context of each case (which

                    inevitably admits of innumerable permutations). each case ultimately turns on

                    its own particular facts and whether there is a “real risk” that

                    public confidence in the administration of justice is – or might be

                    – undermined depends very much on the court’s objective assessment of the relevant facts of the case itself (see also shadrake 1 at [52]-[53], quoted above at [27]).

                    it is of course true that some legal test is required. our simple point,

                    however, is that, in this instance at least, seeking to elaborate upon a legal

                    test whose efficacy is to be demonstrated more in its application rather than its theoretical elaboration is, with

                    respect, perhaps an approach that should be avoided. the fact of the matter is

                    that the great strength of the “real risk” test lies, inter alia, in its practical robustness. put simply, we are of the view that the “real risk”

                        test is adequate in and of itself and, hence, does not require further

                        elaboration. what is clear is that

                    the “real risk” test will not be satisfied in a situation where

                    the risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice is

                    remote or fanciful. and, as explained below (at [39]), where there is, at the other end of the legal spectrum, a

                    situation that would have satisfied the more

                        stringent “clear and present danger” test, that

                    particular situation would clearly fall within the purview of the less stringent

                    “real risk” test. however, there will be many situations that lie

                    in between and, as already emphasised, much will depend on the particular facts

                    and context of the case in question.
30     we would add that, even

                        if the judge had indeed held the view that “a small

                    likelihood” of risk constituted a real risk (a view which we disagree

                    with for the reason stated in [28] above),

                    such a “small likelihood” of risk would merely be a

                    “technical” contempt that may not even attract any sanction at all

                    (see lord reid’s view in times

                        newspapers at 299, and also shadrake 1 at [77]). such a situation would be a highly borderline or marginal

                    case of contempt and, viewed from the perspective of substance and even

                    practical principle, might not even merit the initiation of contempt proceedings by the respondent in the

                    first place. we would think that, where such a situation arises, the respondent

                    would consider it appropriate to initiate contempt proceedings only if other

                    very exceptional circumstances exist. that having been said, we do not think

                    – as already explained above – that an elaboration of the

                    “real risk” test is helpful to the courts which must decide on the

                    facts before them. the basic question is a simple one: is there, having regard

                    to the facts as well as surrounding context, a

                    “real risk” that public confidence in the administration of

                    justice is - or would be - undermined as a

                    result of the impugned statement?
31     this brings us to the next issue as to who

                    constitutes “the public” for the purposes of the law relating to

                    scandalising contempt. however, before proceeding to consider this issue, we

                    note that the judge’s emphasis – in reliance on prior local cases

                    – on the small physical size of singapore itself is, at best, a neutral

                    factor (see shadrake 1 at [52], and reproduced above at [27]). with the advent of the technological age in

                    general and the internet in particular, the geographical size of a particular

                    jurisdiction is no longer an important factor vis-à-vis the application of the “real risk” test,

                    for the very simple reason that even in a geographically large jurisdiction,

                    information can still be disseminated both quickly and widely. a further factor

                    mentioned by the judge (at [52] of

                        shadrake 1, and reproduced above at

                        [27]) which, in our view, is also

                    neutral at best, is his reference to “the fact that judges in singapore

                    are the sole arbiters of fact and law in cases coming before the

                    courts”.
32     returning to the issue as to who constitutes

                    “the public”, it will be recalled that the judge observed (see

                        shadrake 1 at [52], and reproduced above at [27]) that “those who come into contact with the impugned

                    publication may not always be average reasonable

                        persons” [emphasis added]. he added that:
they may be less

                            rational, or, i should add, they may be more discriminating. it

                        is therefore not always appropriate to assess the real risk to public

                        confidence by reference to the average reasonable person – the

                        appropriate reference point depends on the facts of each case. [emphasis

                        added]
(see also the hong kong court of first instance decision of secretary for justice v oriental press group ltd [1998]

                    2 hkc 627 (“oriental press

                    group”) which the judge cited and relied upon). if all the

                    judge is stating is that regard should always be had to the factual context of

                    the case itself, this would be correct. however, there is, with respect, a

                    certain degree of ambiguity in these observations inasmuch as they may suggest

                    that the concept of the average reasonable person may, on occasion at least, be

                    dispensed with. if this is what was meant, we must respectfully disagree. in our

                    view, “the public” must, by definition, comprise the average

                    reasonable person. it is true that different persons might respond differently

                    to the same impugned statement. however, the court concerned must make an

                    objective decision as to whether or not that particular statement would

                    undermine public confidence in the administration of justice, as assessed by the

                    effect of the impugned statement on the average reasonable person. as

                    lord radcliffe observed, albeit in another context (that relating to the

                    doctrine of frustration in the law of contract), in the house of lords decision

                    of davis contractors ltd v fareham urban district

                        council [1956] ac 696 (“davis

                        contractors”) (at 728):
by this time it might seem that the parties themselves have become so far

                        disembodied spirits that their actual persons should be allowed to rest in

                        peace. in their place there rises the figure of the fair

                            and reasonable man. and the spokesman of the fair and reasonable man,

                            who represents after all no more than the anthropomorphic conception of

                            justice, is and must be the court itself. [emphasis

                        added]
33     in this regard, we respectfully disagree with

                    the view expressed in the joint judgment of chan cjhc and keith j in

                        oriental press group (at [55]) (cited in shadrake 1 at [28]):
[w]e think that the real test should be: was there a real risk that the

                        acts complained of would undermine confidence in the due administration of

                        justice in the minds of at least some of the

                        persons who were likely to become aware of the publication or acts

                        complained of? [emphasis added]
with respect, the proposition just set out is not, as explained above,

                    consistent with what we understand to be the general position on this particular

                    aspect of the law. nor ought it to be, given the

                    serious consequences to the persons found in contempt of court.
34     however, it should be emphasised (especially

                    in light of the observations by lord radcliffe in davis

                        contractors (cited above at [32])) that the court proceeds on an objective inquiry and does not

                    substitute its own subjective view as to who comprises “the

                    public”, and, in so far as the observations by lord radcliffe just

                    referred to suggest otherwise, they ought to be qualified accordingly. what

                        is clear, in our view, is that the concept of

                    “the public”

                    cannot differ according to different factual

                    matrices although these matrices are the relevant backdrop against which to

                    ascertain whether or not public confidence in the administration of justice has

                    been – or might be – undermined.
35     finally, we would caution that the

                    illustrations referred to by the judge, viz, rants

                    made at a dinner party and a letter circulated by a disappointed litigant to

                    holders of high public and legal office (see [54] of shadrake 1, also

                    reproduced above at [27]) cannot admit of

                        only one correct answer in every case. much would, in our view, depend on the precise facts and context in which the impugned

                    statement is made. for instance, we note that the judge was careful to qualify

                    his view (at [54] of shadrake 1) that there would be no contempt in the dinner

                    party rant scenario if the rants “are shown to have been ignored” [emphasis added], because in such a case

                    there would be no real risk of undermining public confidence

                        in the administration of justice. the point we are making here is

                    simply that having regard for the precise facts and context in which the

                    impugned statement is made is crucial.
(2)   a summary
36     let us summarise. put simply, the “real

                    risk” test is an adequate formulation in and of itself and requires no

                    further theoretical elaboration. it is, at bottom, a test that means precisely

                    what it says: is there a real risk that the impugned statement has undermined

                    – or might undermine – public confidence in the administration of

                    justice (here, in singapore)? in applying this test, the court must avoid either

                    extreme on the legal spectrum, viz, of either finding that contempt has been established where

                    there is only a remote or fanciful possibility that public confidence in the

                    administration of justice is (or might be) undermined or finding that contempt has been established only in the most serious

                    situations (which is, as we shall see in the next section of this judgment,

                    embodied within the “clear and present danger” test). in

                    undertaking such an analysis, the court must not substitute its own subjective

                    view for the view of the average reasonable person as it is clear that the

                    inquiry must necessarily be an objective one. much would depend, in the final

                    analysis, on the precise facts and context in which the impugned statement is

                    made.
37     as already mentioned, extreme positions in relation to the “real risk”

                    test must be assiduously avoided – whether in form and/or in substance.

                    this brings us to one of the main arguments canvassed by counsel for the

                    appellant, mr ravi, in the present appeal which was, as we shall

                    demonstrate in a moment, merely an attempt to introduce a wholly different (and stricter)

                    test, viz, the “clear and present

                    danger” test, under the guise of the “real

                        risk” test. let us turn now to consider this particular

                    argument.
(3)   the appellant’s attempt to introduce the “clear

                and present danger” test under the guise of the “real risk”

                test
38     as already alluded to in the preceding

                    paragraph, mr ravi sought to go further by

                    arguing that there would be a “real risk” of undermining public

                    confidence in the administration of justice only

                        if the statement concerned posed a clear and

                        present danger that public confidence in the administration of

                    justice would be undermined. a moment’s reflection would reveal that

                    mr ravi was attempting to equate the concept

                    of a “real risk” with the concept of a “clear and present

                    danger” in so far as the potential undermining of public confidence in

                    the administration of justice is concerned. it would take little further

                    reflection to conclude that such an attempted “equation” is, with

                    respect, deeply flawed. both concepts clearly do not have the same meaning. let us

                    elaborate.
39     whilst it would follow

                        that a statement which posed a clear and

                        present danger would simultaneously

                    pose a real risk, the converse does not follow. in other

                    words, a statement which would pose a real risk would not

                        necessarily pose a clear and present

                        danger. the criterion centring on the concept of a “clear

                    and present danger” is an extremely stringent

                        standard compared to the concept of a “real risk”

                    and, to that extent, the latter would encompass

                    the former – but not vice versa.

                    mr ravi was, in substance, attempting to introduce a completely different test (viz,

                    the “clear and present danger” test) into singapore law under

                        the guise of the “real risk”

                        test. as we have seen, both tests might overlap inasmuch as

                    situations which fall within the scope of the “clear and present

                    danger” test would also fall within the scope of the “real

                    risk” test. however, as we have emphasised, the converse does not follow.
40     it is important, in our view, to emphasise

                    that if a particular statement poses a “real

                        risk”, this would be sufficient to render that statement contemptuous. indeed, the very concept of a “real

                    risk” is a weighty one and it therefore comes as no surprise that

                        the “real risk” test is the predominant

                        (indeed, almost exclusive) test that applies throughout the

                        commonwealth (and see generally the case law cited below at

                        [45]-[49]).
41     the “clear and present danger”

                    test applies, in the main, in the united states’ (“us”)

                    context (see, eg, the us supreme court decision of

                        bridges v state of california (1941)

                    314 us 252 (“bridges”)), where

                    the concept of freedom of speech is inextricably linked to the unique culture as well as constitutional position

                        (ie, the first amendment) in the us (see

                        bridges and the constitutional court of south

                    africa’s decision of the state v russell

                        mamabolo (2001) 3 sa 409 (cc) (“mamabolo”) at [21]). with the exception of a seemingly solitary and divided

                    canadian decision which we will deal with in more detail below (at [43]-[44]), the “clear and present

                    danger” test appears to apply in no other commonwealth jurisdiction. to

                    return to this particular test as set in its us

                        context, it should, first, be noted that in the us there does not even appear to be a concept of scandalising contempt

                        to begin with (see bridges) –

                    the us supreme court in bridges considered

                    criticism of the courts, no matter how unrestrained, made after a decision has

                    been rendered, to be an exercise of the right of free discussion and free

                    speech. as alluded to above, the concept of freedom of speech has – owing

                    to the unique cultural as well as constitutional heritage of the us – been

                    accorded a paramountcy in a manner quite different

                    from other commonwealth jurisdictions. this is not surprising when we consider

                    the language of the first amendment itself, as follows:
congress shall make no law respecting an

                        establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or

                            abridging the freedom of speech, or of the

                        press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the

                        government for a redress of grievances. [emphasis added]
the us first amendment is clearly quite different from the

                    corresponding articles in the respective constitutions of commonwealth

                    jurisdictions (of which art 14 of the singapore constitution is a

                    representative illustration). this is not to state that freedom of speech is

                    absent – or even lacking, for that matter – in commonwealth

                    countries. there is, instead, far more attention accorded to the issue of

                        balance between the right to freedom of speech

                    on the one hand and its abuse on the other (inter

                        alia, by conduct amounting to contempt of court). one might add

                    that the paramountcy accorded to the right to freedom of speech in the us is

                        not, with respect, necessarily an approach that ought

                    to be emulated as it could (as we have noted above at [17]) actually result in possible abuse and consequent negation of

                    the right itself. this is no mere parochial rhetoric but is, rather, premised on

                    logic and commonsense. hence, it is no surprise, therefore, that jurisdictions

                    across the commonwealth (which are numerous as they are diverse and which, of

                    course, include singapore) adopt, instead, the approach from balance (see also above at [17]-[18]).
42     returning to the “clear and present

                    danger” test, it was adopted in the us context with respect to sub judice contempt (see, eg, bridges itself). on this

                    related note, however, there is, in our view, no reason in principle why the

                        “real risk” test (as opposed to

                    the “clear and present danger” test) ought not to apply in

                    situations of sub judice contempt as well. indeed,

                    in the english context, the “real risk” test first enunciated in

                        nash related in fact to a situation of

                        sub judice contempt, the test there being

                    whether there was a real risk that the impugned statement would prejudice a fair hearing (see also above at [26]).
43     that having been said, there is one apparently

                    solitary commonwealth decision which furnishes some (but, as we shall see, by no

                    means clear) support for the “clear and present danger” test in

                    the context of scandalising contempt – the ontario court of appeal

                    decision of kopyto. kopyto was perceptively summarised and analysed by

                    mortimer vp in the hong kong court of appeal decision of wong yeung ng v secretary for justice [1999] 2 hkc 24

                        (“wong yeung ng (ca)”), which

                    affirmed the decision of the court of first instance in oriental press group, and whose decision the appeal committee of

                    the court of final appeal in wong yeung ng (cfa)

                    refused to give leave to appeal against. in wong yeung ng

                        (ca), mortimer vp summarised the decision in kopyto as follows (at 41-42):
… the five member ontario court of appeal was unanimous that the

                        momentary but excessive reaction of a disappointed lawyer was not made out

                        as a contempt. in its consideration of the necessary ingredients of contempt

                        by way of scandalising the court it is impressive. …
it is necessary to examine the judgments in a little detail for the reason

                        that on issues other than the result the court was split three ways. cory

                        and goodman jja were of the view that in order to accord with the

                        fundamental freedoms in the [canadian] charter the contempt must be shown to

                        involve a ‘real, substantial and immediate’ (cory) or

                        ‘real, significant and present or immediate’ (goodman) danger to

                        the administration of justice.
houlden ja stood alone in deciding that no offence of scandalising

                        the court, however framed, could be consistent with the charter and

                        therefore there could be no such contempt.
brooke and dubin jja on the other hand considered the offence to be a

                        necessary exemption provided that the statement complained of is calculated

                        to bring the administration of justice in disrepute and it is shown that

                        there is a ‘serious risk that the administration of justice would be

                        interfered with – that risk could be expressed as serious, real or

                        substantial’.
44     as mortimer vp aptly pointed out in the

                    passage quoted from his judgment in preceding paragraph, the decision in

                        kopyto in so far as the legal test for

                    scandalising contempt is concerned was a split

                    one. brooke and dubin jja clearly opted for the “real risk”

                    test, whereas cory and goodman jja opted for the “clear and present

                    danger” test. the remaining judge, houlden ja, did not need to

                    decide on the precise test to be adopted. hence, kopyto is by no means a strong commonwealth decision in favour

                    of the “clear and present danger” test. indeed, to the best of our

                    knowledge, there does not appear to be any decision subsequent to kopyto which definitively favoured the approach of cory

                    and goodman jja.
45     on the contrary, the vast majority of

                    decisions in other jurisdictions point in the opposite direction (viz, in favour

                    of the “real risk” test).
46     for example, in hong kong, although the court

                    of appeal in wong yeung ng (ca) did not really

                    give a definitive pronouncement as to which view in kopyto ought to be preferred, the court of final appeal in

                        wong yeung ng (cfa) did not grant leave to appeal to the appellant, one of the grounds

                    in his application being that the hong kong courts should adopt the kopyto “clear and present danger” test

                    instead of the “real risk” test.
47     and, in mamabolo, the constitutional court of south africa agreed with the

                    minority’s view in kopyto, expressing

                    misgivings (at [35]) about the:
… suitability of [the “clear and present danger”]

                        test in a jurisdiction that does not have to apply the first amendment nor

                        enjoys the benefit of the extensive and complex jurisprudence so carefully

                        constructed by the united states courts.
48     we would add that the views of brooke and

                    dubin jja in kopyto are more persuasive than

                    those of cory and goodman jja because they acknowledged the clear

                    difference between the canadian and the us position, citing at [72] the following observations of the new

                    zealand court of appeal in radio avon (at

                    234):
we have not overlooked the submissions which mr palmer made to us based

                        upon various cases decided in the united states of america. we do not

                        propose to refer to those cases in detail. one of them is a decision of the

                        supreme court of the united states in wood v

                            georgia 370 us 375 (1962). the test adopted was that

                        “the danger must not be remote or even probable; it must immediately

                        imperil” (ibid, 385). the american courts appear

                            to have directed their attention to the existence of a clear and present

                            danger of a court being influenced, intimidated, impeded, embarrassed or

                            obstructed in the administration of justice. english law, on the other

                            hand, has also attached great importance to the need to preserve public

                            confidence in the administration of justice generally. this

                        court should not depart from that attitude subject, of course, in the type

                        of contempt now under consideration, to the public right of fair comment and

                        criticism, and to the possible defence of justification earlier referred to

                        in this judgment. [emphasis added]
49     in summary, the “clear and present

                    danger” test does not represent the law in

                    singapore and mr ravi’s attempt to introduce it under the guise of

                    the “real risk” test fails.
50     let us turn now to consider the other main

                    test, viz, the “inherent tendency”

                    test as well as its relationship to the “real risk”

                test.
the “inherent tendency” test
(1)   the test
51     the “inherent tendency” test was

                    first articulated by the singapore high court in attorney-general v wain barry j and others [1991]

                    1 slr(r) 85 (“wain”) (the

                    related judgment with regard to sentence is reported at attorney-general v wain barry j [1991]

                    1 slr(r) 108), where sinnathuray j observed as follows (at

                        [54]):
… it is not a requirement of our law

                        … that in contempt proceedings it must be proved that the publication

                        constitutes a real risk of prejudicing the administration

                            of justice. in my judgment, it is sufficient to prove that

                        the words complained of have the inherent

                            tendencyto interfere with the administration of

                            justice. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
52     with respect, there does not appear to be any

                    clear authority for the “inherent tendency” test and, indeed, the

                    learned judge in wain did not cite any such

                    authority. however, as the judge correctly observed, this particular test was

                    “subsequently referred to in decisions of the [singapore] high court and

                    seems to have developed a life of its own” (see shadrake 1 at [34]). the various singapore high court decisions which appeared to

                    adopt the “inherent tendency” test include attorney-general v chee soon juan [2006] 2 slr(r) 650

                    at [31]; hertzberg at [25]–[34]; and

                        tan liang joo john at [12].
53     we do note, however, that, in the supreme

                    court of queensland decision of attorney-general for state of

                        queensland v colin lovitt qc [2003] qsc 279

                        (“lovitt”), chesterman j

                    did observe (in a similar vein to sinnathuray j in wain (above at [52])), as

                    follows (at [58]):
the law appears to be that where the contempt is constituted by criticism

                        which tends to undermine public confidence in the due administration of

                        justice the intention of the critic is largely irrelevant. what matters is

                            the inherent tendency of the criticism

                            to diminish the authority of the court and the

                            public’s confidence in it. [emphasis added]
(2)   the relationship between the “inherent

                tendency” test and the “real risk” test
54     the test laid down in wain (reproduced at [51]

                    above) is somewhat ambiguous in so far as it does not clearly set out the

                    precise relationship between “real risk” and “inherent

                    tendency”.
55     it may be possible, on one reading at least,

                    to interpret wain as conceptualising

                    “inherent tendency”

                    in contradistinction to “real risk”;

                    indeed, this is what several courts have done in subsequent cases.
56     however, a holistic reading of wain suggests that the learned judge did not intend to divorce the test from its actual or potential impact on public confidence in the administration

                        of justice. it is, in fact, axiomatic that the law in general and

                    the law relating to scandalising contempt in particular do not – and

                    cannot – operate in a hermetically sealed environment. that this is the

                    case is clearly illustrated by the actual application of the law to the facts by

                    the learned judge himself (and a similar interpretation could arguably be taken

                    of lovitt). this must surely be the case as, in

                    our view, it would be contrary to both logic as well as commonsense for the

                    “inherent tendency” test – or any test for that matter

                    – to be stated only at a purely abstract or theoretical level. indeed,

                    even a theoretical formulation must have in view the vital sphere of application, having regard of course to the particular facts and

                        context of the case in which that formulation is applied. in our

                    view, in none of the decisions cited above (at [52]) is there any indication whatsoever that the court

                    concerned had ignored the particular facts and context of the case at hand in

                    arriving at its decision. looked at in this light, the apparent distinction between the “inherent

                    tendency” test on the one hand and the “real risk” test on

                    the other is, in our view, a “legal red herring”.
57     as stated earlier, however, we note that

                    subsequent courts have appeared to define the “inherent tendency”

                    test in contradistinction to the “real

                    risk” test. although those cases would have been decided the same way

                    even if the “real risk” test was applied, this provides us reason

                    enough to eschew the use of the term “inherent tendency”. as the

                    judge noted (at [50] of shadrake 1), emphasising the test to be that of

                    “real risk” would avoid controversy and misunderstanding by

                    conveying precisely the legal test to layperson and lawyer alike. we therefore

                    unequivocally state that the “real risk” test is the applicable

                    test vis-à-vis liability for scandalising contempt

                    in singapore.
58     we turn now to consider the concept of

                        fair criticism. as we shall see, although it

                    was apparently assumed in the court below that this concept is a defence in the law relating to contempt, it might well

                    be the case that – whilst still relevant (and even vital to the ultimate

                    outcome of the case concerned) – this particular concept is an integral part of the entire process of inquiry as to whether or

                        not the impugned statement is in contempt of court in the first place. put

                        simply, the concept of fair criticism might go to the issue of liability

                        rather than constituting a defence after a finding of liability for contempt

                        has been made. let us now turn to the concept

                itself.
the concept of fair criticism
introduction – liability or defence?
59     it had, apparently at least, been assumed in

                    the court below that the concept of fair criticism is a defence to a charge of contempt of court (see shadrake 1 at [70]–[76]).

                    however, and as was suggested to counsel during oral submissions before this

                    court, the precedents cited in support of this approach towards the concept of

                    fair criticism are – at best – ambiguous. put simply, it could be

                    said that these precedents, whilst discussing the concept of fair criticism, nevertheless do not treat it as a separate defence

                    as such but, rather, as an integral part of the process of

                        analysis as to whether or not the impugned statement is in contempt in the

                        first place. hence, the question posed in the heading to this

                    section of the judgment.
60     to elaborate, none of the key decisions expressly refers to the concept of fair criticism in the context

                    of a separate defence. for example, in ambard

                    (which is often cited as one of the seminal cases with regard to fair

                    criticism), the key passage in lord atkin’s judgment (delivered on

                    behalf of the privy council) is as follows (at 335):
but whether the authority and position of an individual judge, or the due

                        administration of justice, is concerned, no wrong is

                            committed by any member of the public who

                            exercises the ordinary right of criticising, in good faith, in private

                            or public, the public act done in the seat of justice. the

                        path of criticism is a public way: the wrong headed are permitted to err

                        therein: provided that members of the public abstain from imputing improper

                        motives to those taking part in the administration of justice, and are

                        genuinely exercising a right of criticism, and not acting in malice or

                        attempting to impair the administration of justice, they are immune. justice

                        is not a cloistered virtue: she must be allowed to suffer the scrutiny and

                        respectful, even though outspoken, comments of ordinary men. [emphasis

                        added]
61     one would immediately note that there is no

                    mention in the passage just quoted of fair criticism being a formal legal

                        defence as such. indeed, it appears that

                    lord atkin was focusing on the concept of fair criticism in the context of

                        liability. this approach also appeared to be

                    adopted much earlier in the english decision of the queen v

                        gray [1900] qb 36 (“gray”), where lord russell cj observed thus (at

                    40):
judges and courts are alike open to criticism, and if reasonable argument

                        or expostulation is offered against any judicial act as contrary to law or

                        the public good, no court could or would treat that as

                            contempt of court. the law ought not to be astute in such

                        cases to criticise adversely what under such circumstances and with such an

                        object is published; but it is to be remembered that in this matter the

                        liberty of the press is no greater and no less than the liberty of every

                        subject of the queen. now, as i have said, no one has suggested that this is

                        not a contempt of court, and nobody has suggested, or could suggest, that it

                        falls within the right of public criticism in the sense i have described. it

                        is not criticism: i repeat that it is personal scurrilous abuse of a judge

                        as a judge. [emphasis added]
62     more recently, in the english court of appeal

                    decision of regina v commissioner of police of the

                        metropolis, ex parte blackburn (no 2) [1968] 2 qb 150

                        (“blackburn”),

                    lord denning mr observed (in a similar vein) thus (at 155):
let me say at once that we will never use this jurisdiction as a means to

                        uphold our own dignity. that must rest on surer foundations. nor will we use

                        it to suppress those who speak against us. we do not fear criticism, nor do

                        we resent it. for there is something far more important at stake. it is no

                        less than freedom of speech itself.

it is the right of every man, in parliament or out of

                            it, in the press or over the broadcast, to make fair comment, even

                            outspoken comment, on matters of public interest. those who comment can

                            deal faithfully with all that is done in a court of justice. they can

                            say that we are mistaken, and our decisions erroneous, whether they are

                            subject to appeal or not. all we would ask is that those who

                        criticise us will remember that, from the nature of our office, we cannot

                        reply to their criticisms. we cannot enter into public controversy. still

                        less into political controversy. we must rely on our conduct itself to be

                        its own vindication.
exposed as we are to the winds of criticism, nothing which is said by this

                        person or that, nothing which is written by this pen or that, will deter us

                        from doing what we believe is right; nor, i would add, from saying what the

                        occasion requires, provided that it is pertinent to the matter in hand.

                        silence is not an option when things are ill done.
so it comes to this: mr. quintin hogg has criticised the court, but in so

                        doing he is exercising his undoubted right. the article

                            contains an error, no doubt, but errors do not make it a contempt of

                            court. we must uphold his right to the uttermost.
i hold this not to be a contempt of court,

                        and would dismiss the application.
[emphasis added]
63     in the same decision, salmon lj also

                    observed, as follows (at 155-156):

it follows that no criticism of a judgment, however

                            vigorous, can amount to contempt of court, providing it keeps within the

                            limits of reasonable courtesy and good faith. the criticism

                        here complained of, however rumbustious, however wide of the mark, whether

                        expressed in good taste or in bad taste, seems to me to be well within those

                        limits. [emphasis added]
64     finally, edmund davies lj observed (at

                    156; and, significantly, citing gray (see above at

                        [61])):

the right to fair criticism is part of the

                        birthright of all subjects of her majesty. though it has

                            its boundaries, that right covers a wide expanse, and its curtailment

                            must be jealously guarded against. it applies to the

                        judgments of the courts as to all other topics of public importance.

                            doubtless it is desirable that critics should, first,

                            be accurate and, secondly, be fair, and that they will particularly

                            remember and be alive to that desirability if those they would attack

                            have, in the ordinary course, no means of defending

                            themselves. [emphasis added]
65     in radio avon,

                    the court observed that there was a “right” to criticise the work

                    of the courts. the relevant extract reads as follows (at 230):
the present case falls within the first of the two categories

                        of contempt referred to by lord russell. as such it is a type of

                        contempt which does not, as a general rule, directly and immediately

                        prejudice the conduct of some particular case either pending or in the

                        process of being heard. the justification for this branch of the law of

                        contempt is that it is contrary to the public interest that public

                        confidence in the administration of justice should be undermined. but in

                        this class of contempt which, as we have said, generally occurs otherwise

                        than in the context of pending litigation, the courts have always recognised

                        that their activities can properly be made the subject of criticism,

                        directed in good faith towards the improvement of the administration of

                        justice. speaking of this particular class of contempt lord morris in

                            mcleod v st aubyn said, “hence,

                        when a trial has taken place and the case is over, the judge or the jury are

                        given over to criticism” ([1899] ac 549, 561). lord russell

                        emphasied the same point in r v gray and it

                        was developed by lord atkin in ambard v

                            attorney-general. in a celebrated passage in his judgment he

                        said:
“but whether the authority and position of an individual judge,

                            or the due administration of justice, is concerned, no wrong is

                            committed by any member of the public who exercises the ordinary right

                            of criticising, in good faith, in private or public, the public act done

                            in the seat of justice. the path of criticism is a public way: the wrong

                            headed are permitted to err therein: provided that members of the public

                            abstain from imputing improper motives to those taking part in the

                            administration of justice, and are genuinely exercising a right of

                            criticism, and not acting in malice or attempting to impair the

                            administration of justice, they are immune. justice is not a cloistered

                            virtue: she must be allowed to suffer the scrutiny and respectful, even

                            though outspoken, comments of ordinary men” ([1936] ac 322,

                            335).
the right of the press or the public to criticise the work of the courts

                        was again strongly upheld by the court of appeal in england in r v commissioner of police, ex p blackburn

                            (no 2) [1968] 2 qb 150; [1968] 2 all er 319.

                        the courts of new zealand, as in the united kingdom, completely recognise

                        the importance of freedom of speech in relation to their work provided that

                        criticism is put forward fairly and honestly for a legitimate purpose and

                        not for the purpose of injuring our system of justice.
it will be noted that the court in radio

                        avon cited the passage from ambard

                    in coming to its conclusion that it was in the interest of freedom of speech

                    that criticism put forward fairly and honestly for a legitimate purpose should

                    not be found to be in contempt. as we have earlier demonstrated, ambard appears to focus on fair criticism in the context

                    of liability, rather than as a formal defence.
66     in the australian high court decision of

                        nationwide news pty ltd v wills (1992)

                    177 clr 1, mason cj observed thus (at 32–33):
so long as the defendant is genuinely exercising a right of

                        criticism and not acting in malice or attempting to impair the

                        administration of justice, he or she is immune. in r. v. dunbabin; ex parte williams, rich j., with reference to

                        the summary jurisdiction to punish for contempt, said:
“it is not given for the purpose of restricting honest

                            criticism based on rational grounds of the manner in which the court

                            performs its functions. the law permits in respect of courts, as of

                            other institutions, the fullest discussions of their doings so long as

                            that discussion is fairly conducted and is honestly directed to some

                            definite public purpose. the jurisdiction exists in order that the

                            authority of the law as administered in the courts may be established

                            and maintained.”
this approach is based upon the underlying view that “[f]air

                        criticism of the decisions of the court is not only lawful, but regarded as

                        being for the public good”, to repeat the words of evatt j. in

                            r. v. fletcher; ex parte kisch.

                        however, as his honour went on to point out, “the facts forming the

                        basis of the criticism must be accurately stated, and the criticism must be

                        fair and not distorted by malice”.
67     in the same decision, brennan j stated as

                    follows (at 38-39):
thus it has been said that it is no contempt of court to criticize court

                        decisions when the criticism is fair and not distorted by malice and the

                        basis of the criticism is accurately stated. to the contrary, a public

                        comment fairly made on judicial conduct that is truly disreputable (in the

                        sense that it would impair the confidence of the public in the competence or

                        integrity of the court) is for the public benefit. it is not necessary, even

                        if it be possible, to chart the limits of contempt scandalizing the court.

                        it is sufficient to say that the revelation of truth - at all events when

                        its revelation is for the public benefit - and the making of a fair

                        criticism based on fact do not amount to a contempt of court though the

                        truth revealed or the criticism made is such as to deprive the court or

                        judge of public confidence.
68     it is, of course, possible to interpret the

                    statements of principle set out in the preceding paragraphs of this part of the

                    judgment as being consistent with the concept of fair criticism as a defence inasmuch as that particular interpretation would

                    also result in the absence of contemptuous conduct as well. however, the nature, tenor and

                        thrust of these statements of principle are, in our view, more

                    consistent with the concept of fair criticism as going towards liability instead.
69     there is, however, at least one decision that

                    refers to the “defence” of fair criticism. in gilbert ahnee and others v director of public prosecutions

                    [1999] 2 ac 294 (“ahnee”), the

                    privy council noted (at 306):
there is available to a defendant a defence based on the “right of

                        criticising, in good faith, in private or public, the public act done in the

                        seat of justice:” see reg. v. gray

                        [1900] 2 q.b. 36, 40; ambard v. attorney-general for

                            trinidad and tobago [1936] a.c. 322, 335 and badry v. director of public prosecutions [1983]

                        2 a.c. 297.
however, as just mentioned, the prior decisions cited by the privy

                    council in ahnee do not constitute (at least

                    unambiguously) authority for conceptualising fair criticism as a

                defence.
70     we note that the major treatises on the law of

                    contempt shed little light on the issue of whether fair criticism relates to

                    liability or operates as a formal legal defence. for example, cj miller,

                        contempt of court (oxford university press,

                    3rd ed, 2000) at para 12.31 et seq

                    purports to deal with “[p]ossible [d]efences” [emphasis added], noting that

                    defences to scandalising contempt “are not questions which have been

                    subjected to detailed analysis in an english court”, and that “any

                    conclusions must necessarily be tentative”. the text proceeds to analyse

                    case law on the “possible defences” of justification and fair

                    comment, without drawing any firm conclusions as to whether or not these

                    concepts constitute defences to scandalising contempt. similarly, in david

                    eady & ath smith, arlidge, eady & smith on

                        contempt (sweet & maxwell, 3rd ed, 2005) at

                    para 5-252 et seq, the learned authors note

                    that the defences available to scandalising contempt are

                uncertain.
71     the reports of law commissions in england and

                    australia are similarly inconclusive. the australian law reform commission in

                    its report contempt (report no 35, australian

                    government publishing service, canberra, 1987) (“the alrc report”)

                    cited the passage from ambard for the proposition

                    that there was a right to criticise the judiciary (see the alrc report at

                    para 413). however, no elaboration on the characterisation of such a right

                    to criticise was proffered. the alrc report went on to debate the existence of

                    the defences of justification and fair comment, noting that there were

                    conflicting case law authorities on the issue of the defences to contempt. the

                    alrc subsequently tentatively rejected both defences (see the alrc report at

                    paras 415 and 416). notably, there was never any mention of a defence of fair criticism as such (see the alrc report

                    at para 437 et seq). in our view, the closest

                    that the alrc report came to addressing the concept of fair criticism (as

                    understood by the judge) was in an ambiguous statement at para 438, which

                    reads in relevant part, as follows:
finally, there is authority in the cases to the effect that in the course

                        of trying a scandalising case, a court will exonerate the accused unless it

                        finds the allegedly scandalising remarks to be ‘unjustified’,

                        ‘unwarrantable’ or ‘baseless’ [citing r v fletcher, ex parte kisch (1935) 52 clr 248

                        at 257; gallagher v durack (1983) 152 clr

                        238 at 244]. this is not the same approach to the matter

                            as allowing the accused to plead and prove a formal defence of

                            justification. it appears to refer the matter to judicial

                        instinct, or to what can be ascertained through judicial notice. but this

                        element in scandalising law will protect the accused against being convicted

                        where it is plain that his or her allegations have a clear and genuine basis

                        in fact. [emphasis added]
the italicised portion suggests that there is some other concept which

                    is akin to, but not the same as, a

                        “formal defence of

                    justification” [emphasis added]. it is possible that, having earlier

                    cited the ambard passage at para 413 of the

                    alrc report, the alrc was in fact alluding to some concept of fair criticism not

                    amounting to a formal defence – albeit, and with respect somewhat

                    confusingly, in the context of the concept of justification.
72     in the report of the law commission of england

                    and wales entitled offences relating to interference with the

                        course of justice (law commission no 96, 7 november

                    1979) (“the ewlc report”), it was recommended at para 3.70

                    that the offence of scandalising contempt should be replaced by a new offence

                    which punishes the publication or distribution of false matter:
… with intent that it be taken as true and knowing it to be false

                        or being reckless whether it is false, when it imputes corrupt judicial

                        conduct to any judge, tribunal or member of a tribunal.
in other words, a person will not be convicted of contempt if

                        either (a) the allegation made by him or

                    her is true; or (b) the allegation is false,

                    but the alleged contemnor honestly believed it to be true and was not reckless

                    as to whether it was true or false. this approach bears some similarity to the

                    role given to the concept of fair criticism by the judge, and may be thought to

                    conceive of fair criticism as a defence. however,

                    there is no reference to the concept of fair criticism whatsoever in the ewlc

                    report, much less any analysis of fair criticism existing as a formal legal

                    defence.
73     in the 1974 report of the committee on

                    contempt of court chaired by phillimore lj (“the phillimore

                    report”), which was referred to in the ewlc report, the phillimore

                    committee recommended that justification should be a defence to contempt if the

                    impugned statements were demonstrated to be for the public benefit (see the

                    phillimore report, at paras 165–167). we note that the phillimore

                    report did not cite any case law for its proposed norms, and that, again, no

                    reference was made to the concept of fair criticism as such.
74     we turn now to examine s 5 of the indian

                    contempt of courts act 1971 (“icca”), which appears to address the

                    concept of fair criticism (and which, to the best of our knowledge, is probably

                    the only attempt in the commonwealth to deal legislatively with this concept). section 5 reads as

                    follows:

fair criticism
of judicial act not contempt

5.    a person shall not be guilty of contempt of court

                            for publishing any fair comment on the

                            merits of any case which has been heard and finally decided. [emphasis

                            added]
we also note that s 8 of the icca provides that:

other defences not affected.
8.    nothing contained in this act shall be construed as

                            implying that any other defence which would have been a valid defence in

                            any proceedings for contempt of court has ceased to be available merely

                            by reason of the provisions of this act.
75     with respect, there is a degree of ambiguity

                    in s 5 concerning whether fair criticism, under indian law, relates to

                        liability or operates as a formal legal

                        defence. on one view, it may be thought that

                    s 5 treats the concept of fair criticism as being synonymous with the

                        defence of “fair comment” in

                    defamation. this view may be derived from the fact that the savings provision in

                    s 8 refers to “[o]ther defence[s]”, thus possibly implying

                    that s 5 was intended to refer to a “defence”. it may also

                    stem from the report of the sanyal committee which, in recommending the

                    codification of contempt laws (eventually resulting in the icca), discussed

                    “fair criticism” under the chapter entitled

                    “defences”. however, it should be noted that no elaboration is

                    provided in the icca as to how precisely the concept of “fair

                    criticism” should be characterised, and there is no express reference to

                    it being a “defence” as such. furthermore, s 5 appears to be

                    a codification of the position in ambard and

                        gray (see the report of the sanyal committee,

                    chapter ix section 3; and see aiyer’s law of

                        contempt of court, legislature & public servants (law book

                    company, 5th ed, 1976) at 91), which decisions we have earlier noted to be

                    ambiguous vis-à-vis the characterisation of the

                    concept of “fair criticism”.
76     the other possible interpretation of s 5

                    is that the icca merely treats fair criticism as being related to the issue of

                    liability rather than constituting a defence. in this regard, we note that a

                    2006 legislative amendment expressly provided for

                    a defence of justification in s 13 of the

                    icca, as follows:

contempts not punishable in certain

                        cases.
13. notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the

                        time being in force,—
…
(b) the court may permit, in any proceeding for contempt of court,

                            justification by truth as a valid defence

                            if it is satisfied that it is in public interest and the request for

                            invoking the said defence is bona

                            fide.
[emphasis added]
looked at in this light, the only defence

                        expressly referred to in the icca is one of justification. this suggests that the s 5 reference to

                    “fair criticism” was not intended to establish a defence of “fair criticism” as such.

                    indeed, it may indicate that “fair criticism” in s 5 should

                    be characterised in a manner akin to how we have characterised ambard and gray, viz, as being related to liability instead of being a formal legal defence (see [60]–[61]

                    above).
77     we are not well placed, and certainly do not

                    propose, to definitively determine how the concept of “fair

                    criticism” should be characterised under the icca. our only observation

                    is that there is potential ambiguity with regard to the precise role and

                    operation of the concept of fair criticism in commonwealth case law and

                    (possibly) even legislation.
78     however, whether one approach is adopted

                    instead of the other is not merely a theoretical issue. if the concept of fair

                    criticism relates to liability, then the evidential burden would be on the party relying on it.

                    the legal burden, on the other hand, would be on

                    the respondent to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the impugned statement

                    does not constitute fair criticism, and that it presents a real risk of

                    undermining public confidence in the administration of justice. if, however, the

                    concept of fair criticism constitutes a defence,

                    then the legal burden would shift to the alleged

                    contemnor to show on the balance of probabilities

                    that the impugned statement amounts to fair criticism.
79     in singapore, although the court’s power

                    to punish for contempt of court is constitutionally and statutorily expressed

                    (see above at [17]), there is no statutory

                    provision (contra the icca) which provides

                    guidance on whether fair criticism relates to liability or operates as a formal

                    legal defence. in our view, given the ambiguity in case law and authorities from

                    other commonwealth jurisdictions, the provision of any defence to scandalising contempt – which is itself

                    manifestly a question of policy – is more properly addressed by parliament

                    (as was done in india via the icca in general, and the 2006 legislative

                    amendment of the icca in particular). however, until defences to contempt are

                    rigorously considered and legislatively provided for, it falls to the courts to

                    determine how the concept of fair criticism functions in practice under the

                    common law.
80     we prefer viewing the concept of fair

                    criticism as going towards liability for contempt

                    of court. indeed, given that scandalising contempt is quasi-criminal in nature, this approach has the additional

                    benefit of ensuring that the alleged contemnor is not disadvantaged vis-à-vis the implications with regard to the burden of

                    proof (discussed above at [78]). at this

                    juncture, we note that a caveat is necessary: the precise characterisation of

                    the concept of fair criticism was not fully canvassed before us (see also above

                    at [59]). accordingly, our views on this

                    point must necessarily be taken, to that extent, to be provisional in nature. we

                    do, however, apply – where the concept of fair criticism has been raised

                    – the approach we have stated at the outset of this paragraph to the

                    impugned statements in this particular appeal.
the applicable principles
81     even if, as we have assumed, the concept of

                    fair criticism goes towards liability for contempt

                    of court, this by no means renders nugatory the various principles and factors

                    that have already been laid down in previous decisions – notably, in

                        tan liang joo john, where judith

                    prakash j cited (at [14]) the

                    passage from ambard (which is, in turn, cited

                    above at [60]) in support of her proposition

                    that “[f]air criticism does not amount to contempt of court”. the

                    learned judge then proceeded to pertinently observe as follows (at [15]-[23]):
15    it is apparent from

                            lord atkin’s reasoning, however, that there are limits to the

                            right of fair criticism. the criticism must be made in good faith and

                            must also be respectful. in determining whether mala fides has been proved, the court can take into

                            account a wide range of

                            factors.
16    one relevant factor

                            is the extent to which the allegedly fair criticism is supported by

                            argument and evidence. there must be some reason or basis for the

                            criticism or else it would amount to an unsupported attack on the court.

                            in the early english decision of rex v

                                white (1808) 1 camp 359n; 170 er 985,

                            grose j decided that the censure of a judge and jury in an article

                            constituted contempt of court because:
[the article] contained no reasoning or

                                discussion, but only declamation and invective …

                            written not with a view to elucidate the truth, but to injure the

                            characters of individuals, and to bring into hatred and contempt the

                            administration of justice in the country.
[emphasis added]
17    as lord russell

                            of killowen cj stated in the queen v

                                gray ( … ):
judges and courts are alike open to criticism, and if reasonable argument or expostulation is

                            offered against any judicial act as contrary to law or the public good,

                            no court could or would treat that as contempt of court.
18    another relevant

                            factor is the manner in which the alleged criticism is made. the

                            criticism must generally be expressed in a temperate and dispassionate

                            manner, since an intention to vilify the courts is easily inferred where

                            outrageous and abusive language is used (see nigel lowe and brenda

                            sufrin, borrie & lowe: the law of

                                contempt (butterworths, 3rd ed, 1996)

                                (“borrie & lowe”) at

                            p 349). lord atkin stipulated that fair criticism needs to be

                            “respectful” (see ambard ( … ). in regina v commissioner of police of the metropolis, ex parte

                                blackburn (no 2) [1968] 2 wlr 1204 (at 1207),

                            salmon lj stated that “no criticism of a judgment, however

                            vigorous, can amount to contempt of court, providing it keeps within the

                            limits of reasonable courtesy and good faith”. similarly,

                                in halsbury’s laws of

                                england vol 9(1) (butterworths, 4th ed reissue,

                            1998) it is said that (at para 433):
[c]riticism of a judge's conduct or of the conduct of a court, even if

                            strongly worded, is not a contempt provided that the criticism is

                                fair, temperate and made in

                            good faith and is not directed to the personal character of a judge or

                            to the impartiality of a judge or court.
[emphasis added]
19    such temperate,

                            balanced criticism allows for rational debate about the issues raised

                            and thus may even contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the

                            administration of justice. scurrilous and preposterous attacks, on the

                            other hand, are likely to have the opposite effect. as mortimer vp

                            noted in wong yeung ng v secretary for

                                justice [1999] 2 hkc 24 (“wong yeung ng”) (at 44):
... bona fide, balanced and justified criticism is susceptible to

                            reasoned answer or even acceptance. sustained scurrilous, abusive

                            attacks made in bad faith, or conduct which challenges the authority of

                            the court, are not susceptible to reasoned answer. if they continue

                            unchecked they will almost certainly lead to interference with the

                            administration of justice as a continuing process.
20    apart from the two

                            factors discussed above, courts have also taken into consideration such

                            factors as the party's attitude in court (see, for example, r v vidal the times (14 october 1922),

                            cited in borrie & lowe ( … ) at

                            p 349 n 5) and the number of instances of contemning conduct

                            (see, for example, regina v glanzer

                            (1963) 38 dlr (2d) 402). the list of relevant factors is not

                            closed. the court is entitled to take into account all the circumstances

                            of the case which in its view go towards showing bad

                        faith.
21    there is another, more

                            contentious, limit on the right of criticism. it appears from the

                            english authorities above that the act or words in question must not

                            impute improper motives to nor impugn the integrity, propriety and

                            impartiality of judges or the courts (see, for example, ambard ( … ); halsbury's laws of england

                            ( … ); see also borrie & lowe at pp 350–352).

                            the rationale for this second limit is explained in borrie & lowe as follows (at

                            pp 350–351):
the courts are particularly sensitive to allegations of partiality, it

                            being a basic function of a judge to make an impartial judgment. the law

                            goes to some lengths to ensure that a judge has no personal interest in

                            the case, his decision being considered void and of no effect if bias is

                            proved: nemo judex in sua causa. allegations of partiality are treated

                            seriously because they tend to undermine confidence in the basic

                            function of a judge.
22    the need to maintain

                            public confidence in the administration of justice must, however, be

                            balanced against the public interest in rooting out bias and impropriety

                            where it in fact occurs. we ought not to be so complacent as to assume

                            that judges and courts are infallible or impervious to human sentiment.

                            thus, i have some sympathy for the view expressed in the new zealand

                            case of solicitor-general v radio avon ltd

                            [1978] 1 nzlr 225 (at 231):
if this were the law [that allegations of improper motives, bias or

                            impropriety could not constitute fair criticism] then nobody could

                            publish a true account of the conduct of a judge if the matter published

                            disclosed that the judge had in fact acted from some improper motive.

                            nor would it be possible, on the basis of facts truly stated, to make an

                            honest and fair comment suggesting some improper motive, such as

                            partiality or bias, without running the risk of being held in

                            contempt.
23    the fear of baseless imputations of bias or

                            impropriety is unfounded as the court is able to take into account

                            factors such as the existence of evidence for such allegations under the

                            requirement of bona fides. to my

                            mind, therefore, the second limit on the right to criticise is

                            unnecessary and potentially overly restrictive of legitimate

                            criticism.
82     the above extract was also cited in part by

                    the judge in shadrake 1 (at [70]). in our view, the factors enunciated in

                    the preceding paragraph (albeit by no means exhaustive) are very helpful in

                    assisting the court concerned to arrive at a conclusion as to whether or not the

                    impugned material is in contempt of court. indeed, it is at least arguable that

                    prakash j appeared, in tan liang joo john, to

                    treat the concept of fair criticism as going towards liability rather than as an

                    independent defence.
83     we pause here to address two arguments raised

                    by the respondent. the respondent argued, first, that statements calling into

                    question the independence, impartiality and integrity of courts can never amount to fair criticism. second, the respondent

                    contended that allegations made outside the formal avenues (eg, the relevant court proceedings or the removal mechanism

                    provided for in art 98(3) of the constitution) can never amount to fair criticism.
84     we do not agree with these arguments. with

                    regard to the first argument (viz, limiting the

                    scope of fair criticism to criticism that does not

                    call into question the independence, impartiality and integrity of courts), we

                    are of the view that this overly limits the ambit

                    of fair criticism. this view was also taken by the judge (see shadrake 1 at [76])

                    and in tan liang joo john (at [21]–[23]). indeed, the respondent’s argument appears to render

                    the concept of fair criticism nugatory, since most

                    allegedly contemptuous statements, by their very nature, call into question the

                    independence, impartiality and integrity of courts. we are fortified in taking

                    this view by the wealth of commonwealth authority holding that an imputation of

                    judicial impartiality or impropriety is not ipso

                        facto scandalising contempt (see the high court of australia

                    decision of r v nicholls (1911) 12 clr 280 at

                    286; the new south wales supreme court decision of attorney-general for new south wales v mundey [1972]

                    2 nswlr 887 at 910–911; the new zealand court of appeal decision of

                        radio avon at 230–231; the english court

                    of appeal decision of blackburn at 155–156;

                    and the privy council decision of ahnee at

                    1314).
85     with regard to the second argument (viz, limiting the scope of fair criticism to criticism

                    raised through the formal avenues provided for in the law), we are of the view

                    that this is too onerous a limitation on the right to free speech. an alleged

                    contemnor should not be precluded from proffering fair criticism merely because

                    he or she did not have the means, or did not choose, to air his or her rationally supported criticisms via any of the formal

                    legal avenues. indeed, we agree with the judge’s view that resort to the

                    constitutional inquiry process cannot be the only way in which courts and judges

                    can be criticised for wrongdoing. as the judge noted in shadrake 1 at [68]:
i also cannot agree with the suggestion made by the phillimore committee

                        and chee soon juan ( … ), and

                        taken up by ms subramanian, that all discussions of judicial wrongdoing

                        must be directed to the prime minister or the chief justice, with the aim of

                        activating the removal mechanism provided for in article 98(3) of the

                        constitution. the public must be able to debate judicial conduct without

                        seising the removal mechanism in article 98(3). indeed, frequent resort

                        to the extraordinary mechanism in article 98(3) cannot be healthy for

                        the independence of the judiciary.
a summary
86     whilst the concept of fair criticism could

                    either go towards liability for contempt or

                    constitute a defence to what would otherwise be considered contemptuous conduct,

                    we prefer to utilise the concept in the former

                    sense. in approaching this concept, the court should bear in mind the various

                    factors set out (albeit non-exhaustively) in tan liang joo

                        john (above at [81]). the

                    court ought always to apply this concept not only in relation to the precise facts and context but also bearing in mind the

                        following key question throughout: does the impugned statement

                    constitute fair criticism, or does it go on to cross the legal line by posing a

                    real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice

                    – in which case it would constitute contempt instead?
our decision
the issue of liability
introduction and context
87     having stated the applicable principles of

                    law, we turn now to apply them to each of the eleven statements which the judge

                    found to be in contempt of court. we also note that the respondent has not filed

                    a cross-appeal against the decision of the judge in the court below against

                    either liability or sentence.
88     before considering each of the statements, the

                    relevant background and context should also be noted.
89     first, in so far as the scope of distribution/publication of the book is concerned,

                    counsel for the appellant, mr ravi, had informed the judge that almost

                    6,000 copies of the book had been sold internationally, especially at airports,

                    and that some copies were being circulated in singapore (see shadrake 2 at [27]). mr ravi further stated that (ibid):
in fact, in my office, i’ll be very honest, i’m not selling

                        the book. i have -- so many lawyers have come to take the books because my

                        client have provided a lot of copies from the distributors. i’m not

                        selling it but i have given lawyers gratuitously at the -- my clients have

                        been quite pleased that many lawyers are turning up in droves to buy -- to

                        have a copy of the book. some would like to just make payment at their

                        volition.
90     ms kumarassamy gunavathy, a senior

                    analyst with the media authority of singapore, also deposed by affidavit that

                    she bought the book from kinokuniya book store of singapore pte ltd in ngee ann

                    city. she stated that the book had been sold in singapore by several other

                    bookstores, including select books pte ltd and mary martin book sellers pte ltd.

                    the appellant chose not to cross-examine ms gunavathy on her affidavit, and

                    therefore the contents of her affidavit are taken to be accepted by the parties

                    (see shadrake 1 at [84]).
91     second, the judge noted that the appellant

                    held himself out as an investigative journalist (see shadrake 1 at [85]–[86]). a

                    perusal of the following parts of the book illustrates this point:
(a)     the announcement on the back cover

                        (“investigative journalism has come to mean the kind of brave

                        reporting that exposes injustice … alan shadrake’s hard-hitting

                        new book cuts through the façade of official silence to reveal disturbing

                        truths about singapore’s use of the death

                    penalty”);
(b)     the bibliographical note (“alan shadrake is a renowned veteran

                        investigative journalist and author whose 50-year career has taken him

                        around the world”);
(c)     the preface (“meticulous search of legal files and

                        archived cases going back to 1963”, references to unnamed lawyers,

                        central narcotics bureau officers and an anonymous librarian at the national

                        library);
(d)     extracts at page 21 (“yet another major scoop in my long career

                        as an investigative journalist”); and
(e)     a full page photograph of the appellant posing

                        outside the supreme court of singapore, captioned: “author alan

                        shadrake spent months scrutinising court and other records all over

                        singapore to unearth judicial scandals”.
92     accordingly, the statements should be read as

                    being statements emanating from a person who has held himself out as an investigative journalist and their actual or

                    potential effect on the public should be assessed accordingly. it should be

                    noted that the appellant does not disagree with the judge’s holding on

                    this particular point.
93     we turn now to consider the eleven statements

                        seriatim in light of the legal principles set

                    out above.
the first statement
94     the first statement is found at page viii

                    of the book, and reads as follows:

something sinister: how the singapore

                            legal systemworks in secret and how politics, international trade and

                            business often determine who lives and who dies on the

                            gallows. [emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
95     the judge was of the view that “legal

                    system” in this statement could not be read to include everything but the

                    courts; indeed, the judge considered that the courts are the first thing that

                    comes to mind when a reference is made to a “legal system” (see

                        shadrake 1 at [88]). accordingly, he held that the first

                    statement constituted a clear accusation that the courts (and other parts of the

                    legal system) took politics, international trade and business into account in

                    determining who lives or dies on the gallows (ibid).
96     on the other hand, mr ravi argues, on

                    behalf of the appellant, that the judge misinterpreted the first statement. he

                    points out that nowhere in the context of this passage is there any reference to

                    improprieties on the part of a judge or a court. he also points out that in the

                    first substantive chapter of the book, ten pages down from the first

                    statement, the target of the appellant’s criticism is the executive (narcotics police, cnb officer, and

                    prosecution). accordingly, he contends that adopting a contextual

                    interpretation, the appellant’s key argument in the first statement is

                    that prosecutorial decisions weigh heavily in the

                    outcome of certain death penalty cases. the appellant further argues that the

                    judge should have taken the same approach to “legal system” as

                    that in the third statement (which was found not to be contemptuous). the third

                    statement, found at page 27 of the book, reads:
it also put the spotlight on singapore’s legal

                            system which many observers inside and outside the country

                        believe has been perverted to suit political and economic expediency.

                        [emphasis added]
97     although mr ravi purported to rely on a

                        contextual approach, he has misapplied it. the first statement, whilst occurring at page

                    viii of the book, is actually located within the second page of the entire book itself. it is also part of the

                        preface which attempts to give an overview of the book. more importantly, the context of

                    the first statement, viz the sentences which

                        immediately precede it on the same page, is as

                    follows:
but after months of relentless sleuthing i managed to

                            find the man who had hanged an estimated 1,000 men and

                        women mainly for murder and drug trafficking – and surprisingly get

                        him to talk. it led to a meticulous search of legal files

                            and archived cases going back to 1963 while interviewing

                        abolitionists and lawyers involved in many sensational

                            cases that largely went under-reported or not reported at

                        all. the result is a unique glimpse into the

                            deadly career of arguably the most prolific executioner in the world

                            – a man who believes he has helped keep singapore one

                        of the safest places in the world. and something else.

                            something sinister: how the singapore legal system works in secret and

                            how politics, international trade and business often determine who lives

                            and who dies on the gallows. [emphasis added in italics and

                        bold italics]
98     there are, in fact, two main themes within the

                    very title of the book itself, viz, “once a jolly hangman –

                    singapore justice in the dock” [emphasis

                    added]. both themes are reflected in the passage from the preface quoted in the

                    preceding paragraph. the first theme is the examination of the particular career

                    of the “most prolific executioner in the world”. this first theme

                    is the leitmotif to the second broader – and main – theme of the

                    book (disingenuously slipped in, as it were, in the form of the subtitle

                        “singapore justice in the

                    dock”), the distinction between the two themes being

                    emphasised by the short – but pithy and telling – sentence just

                    before the first statement itself, viz,

                    “[a]nd something else” (quoted in bold italics above). and that

                    “something else”, as the first statement puts it, concerns

                    “[s]omething sinister” [emphasis

                    added]. further, part of that machinery which allegedly perpetrates such

                    undesirable results is “the singapore legal

                        system” [emphasis added]. even when read literally (as

                    opposed to contextually), the meaning is clear. whilst mr ravi refers to

                    executive action as well as prosecutorial decisions, it is axiomatic (especially

                    to the average reasonable person who is a member of the public and, we might

                    add, a fortiori, to persons who are legally

                    trained) that a key institution in the

                    administration of justice is the courts (which, inter alia,

                        actually decide cases by applying the relevant

                    law to the evidence before them). and, as already alluded to earlier in this

                    paragraph, this meaning is buttressed by the subtitle of the book itself which

                    encapsulates this theme even more pithily and succinctly, viz, “singapore justice in the dock”. indeed, the

                    appellant has placed the courts in his own

                    “dock” and has found the result, amongst other things,

                        “sinister”. if further support

                    is required for the interpretation just adopted, one need refer no further than

                    one page back, viz, to the very first page of the

                    preface – and, indeed, to the very first

                        sentence thereof, which reads as follows: “it was never my

                    intention to go to singapore and write a book about its

                        revered but much feared chief executioneror its justice system” [emphasis added in

                    italics and bold italics]. one might add that – whether by design or

                    inadvertence – the appellant was clearly utilising the word

                    “or” in the sentence just quoted in a conjunctive sense, having regard to the sense as well as context

                    concerned. finally, the back cover of the book (which also attempts to

                    encapsulate the themes of the book) drives home the interpretation we have

                    discerned in no uncertain terms –

                    inter alia, in the sentence which states that the

                    book “reveals thecruelty and imprudenceof anentire judicialsystem” [emphasis added in italics and bold

                    italics].
99     we would add that the third statement

                    (reproduced above at [96]) – albeit

                    referring to the term “legal system” – was held not to be contemptuous in the court below. we agree with

                    the judge. indeed, there is a fundamental difference between the third statement

                    and the first statement. in the latter, there is a clear reference to the

                    judicial function of determining liability and imposition of the death sentence

                    (“determine who lives and who dies on the gallows”), whereas there

                    is no such unambiguous reference in the former. giving the appellant the benefit

                    of the doubt, as the judge rightly did, there is reasonable doubt that the third

                    statement actually referred to the courts. for the reasons given above, however,

                    the same cannot be said of the first statement.
100    put simply, the first statement, whilst

                    short in length is long on meaning – a meaning that attributes by way of

                    summary and theme to, inter alia, the judiciary, the role of achieving sinister ends and by “[working] in secret” at

                    that. the first statement further suggests that the judiciary is influenced by

                    considerations relating to “politics, international trade and

                    business” when determining liability for capital offences. this is the

                        very antithesis of the impartial

                    administration of justice which the judiciary is pre-eminently responsible for

                    and which is expected as a given by the public itself. in our view, it is clear,

                    beyond a reasonable doubt, that there is a real risk that such a statement with

                    such a meaning would undermine public confidence in the administration of

                    justice in singapore. we further note that fair criticism was not raised by the

                    appellant with respect to the first statement.
the second statement
101    the second statement is found at page 3

                    of the book. it refers to the case of julia bohl, a german national who was

                    arrested and initially charged with the capital offence of trafficking more than

                    500 grams of cannabis, which was subsequently reduced to a non-capital

                    offence of trafficking in a smaller amount:
shortly before a young german woman, known to have been running a

                        lucrative drugs ring in singapore, was sentenced to only five years, of

                        which she served three for good behaviour – a slap on the wrist which

                        was arranged by the singapore government under threat of economic reprisals

                        by the german government.
102    the judge noted that the reference to a

                    sentence of “only five years” and that it was a “slap on

                    the wrist arranged by the singapore government” constituted a clear

                    reference to the courts, since sentencing is generally (and was indeed in that

                    case) the province of the courts (see shadrake 1 at [89]). further, the judge rejected the appellant’s explanation

                    of the second statement in which the latter purported to rely on page 142

                    of mr subhas anandan’s (“anandan”) autobiography

                    (subhas anandan, the best i could (marshall

                    cavendish editions, 2009)). in the judge’s view, anandan had merely stated

                    that the prosecution could not have preferred a

                    capital charge because the amount of cannabis seized was below the threshold of

                    500 grams (see shadrake 1 at [90]). accordingly the judge found that the

                    second statement referred to the courts and was therefore

                contemptuous.
103    the appellant contends that a fuller reading

                    of anandan’s book belies the interpretation arrived at by the judge, as

                    follows:
(a)     first, the appellant argues that

                        anandan did in fact convey the message that the diplomatic negotiations

                        played a part in the change of charge. this may be gleaned from two key

                        passages at pages 142 and 143 of anandan’s book. to an ordinary

                        reader, the suggestion from anandan’s book is that the australian

                        authorities acted too slowly in lobbying on behalf of nguyen, and therefore

                        stood no chance of saving his life, whereas the german embassy acted early

                        and effectively in negotiating a reduction in the charges put to bohl.

                        accordingly, the judge’s criticism of the appellant’s

                        “attitude towards his sources” is unwarranted, since

                        anandan’s book, which includes a first-hand account of the bohl case,

                        highlights the links between diplomatic negotiations and prosecutorial

                        decision-making.
(b)     second, the word “court” appears nowhere in the

                        impugned passage. by contrast, the “singapore government” is

                        clearly referenced in the passage.
(c)     third, while it is the case that sentencing is generally

                        “the province of the courts”, courts can only sentence on

                        charges which are brought and proven by the prosecution. the sting in the

                        appellant’s attack as borne out by anandan’s first-hand

                        testimony is that there was diplomatic influence in the bringing of charges

                        against bohl, not in the adjudication of her case. a contextual view

                        supports this – the appellant refers at page 8 to the bohl case

                        as one in which “[t]he charges against her were suddenly – and

                        ‘miraculously’ – modified”; again a reference to

                        the charging decision, not the adjudication of the

                case.
104    in our view, it has not been proven, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the appellant

                    had referred to the courts in the second statement

                    simply by virtue of his reference to a sentence of “only five

                    years” being “a slap on the wrist arranged by the singapore

                    government”. a contextual reading of the second statement suggests that

                    the appellant could have been referring to how the singapore government chose to

                    bring reduced charges against bohl. while the judge is undoubtedly correct that

                    sentencing is within the province of the courts, the second statement could be

                    read as being a reference to the diplomatic influence in the prosecutorial decision to bring modified charges against bohl.

                    in our view, an average reasonable reader reading the second statement would be

                    left with the impression that prosecutorial discretion is sometimes subject to

                    diplomatic influence. this is especially so when one considers page 8 of

                    the book (in the concluding portion of the chapter containing the second

                    statement):
this particular execution came at an awkward time for the city state when,

                        around the same time a german citizen, julia suzanne bohl, who had been

                        under surveillance for months by narcotics police as a high profile drug

                        trafficker in singapore, managed to escape the death penalty through

                        political and diplomatic pressure from germany. the charges against her were suddenly – and

                            ‘miraculously’ – modified. the charges were reduced to a non-mandatory death

                        penalty level and she was given five years of which she served only three.

                        [emphasis added]
105    accordingly, it cannot, in our view, be said that the second statement poses a

                    real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice in

                    so far as the respondent has failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the

                    logically prior step that the second statement refers to the courts. in other

                    words, the second statement does not scandalise the

                        courts.
the fourth statement
106    the fourth statement, at page 100 of

                    the book, refers to the case of maria krol-hmelak, who, together with one peter

                    johnson, was acquitted of drug trafficking by the late lai kew chai j (see

                        shadrake 1 at [95]). the fourth statement (in bold italics)

                    reads as follows:
following final submissions at the 28th session [of the trial] which

                        began on 29 october, judge lai suddenly announced them both not

                        guilty. krol-hmelak could hardly believe her ears. she was free. completely

                        stunned she burst into tears sobbing ‘what’s happening?

                        what’s happening?’ she had been in jail for two and a half years

                        expecting she would end up on the gallows. instead she heard cries from

                        embassy officials: ‘you’re free! you are free!’ it was an

                        extraordinary end to the case in which few believed she would not be found

                        guilty and hanged. the ‘i didn’t know’ plea had seemingly

                        and perhaps miraculously worked for her but in singapore

                            funny things tend to happen on the way to their courtrooms just as funny

                            things happen when they arrive in a theatre to perform in a comedy

                            show. however, in singapore it has nothing to do with

                        humour.
in fact, many believe that krol-hmelak was guilty. but to hang her

                        following the uproar over van damme’s death sentence might not have

                        been wise. so it was very likely a government verdict

                            not a judicial one. singapore’s judiciary is not free to decide

                            who should live and who should die when vital business, economic and

                            diplomatic issues are at stake.
[emphasis added in bold italics]
107    in so far as the first portion in bold

                    italics is concerned (“the first portion”), the judge held that

                    the appellant’s comparison of the legal process to a comedy is clearly

                    mischievous when read alongside his description of how the judge

                    “suddenly” acquitted krol-hmelak, how her plea of ignorance

                    “had seemingly and perhaps miraculously worked for her”, and his

                    allegation that “funny things tend to happen” on the way to

                    courtrooms (see shadrake 1 at [98]). in response to this, the appellant

                    contends that the judge had misread the plain meaning of the first portion of

                    the text in bold italics, arguing that it could only refer to events which

                        precede court hearings and not events which

                    take place in the court itself, as the phrasing is that “funny things

                    happen on the way to their courtrooms”. according to the appellant, it

                    would require a stretch in reasoning to suggest that the funny things must

                    relate to events inside a courtroom.
108    with regard to the second portion in bold

                    italics (“… was very likely a government verdict not a judicial

                    one. singapore’s judiciary is not free to decide who should live and who

                    should die when vital business, economic and diplomatic issues are at

                    stake”) (“the second portion”), the judge was of the view

                    that this was the more serious allegation in the context of the fourth

                    statement. the judge further noted that the appellant’s affidavit had no

                    explanation for his plain allegation that the court ordered the acquittals under

                    pressure from the government or as a result of the dictates of business,

                    economics and diplomacy, rather than the rule of law (see shadrake 1 at [98]). in response to this, the appellant contends that the

                    statement was couched in qualified terms (viz,

                    “it was very likely”), and that this statement was followed by a

                    lengthy discussion on the course of the prosecution and trial. the appellant

                    thus contends that this second portion amounts to fair criticism.
109    we do not think that there is merit in the

                    appellant’s arguments. with regard to the first portion, it is admitted

                    that, on a literal reading, the reference to funny things happening on the way to the courtrooms may be thought to introduce

                    reasonable doubt as to whether reference was made to the courts as opposed to

                    the prosecution. however, we agree with the judge’s observation that the

                    appellant had mischievously juxtaposed several statements: an average reasonable

                    reader reading the statement would have been left with the impression that lai

                    kew chai j had played a part in exculpating krol-hmelak for diplomatic

                    – and not legal - reasons. we would additionally

                    emphasise that, read in context, the appellant could not have been commenting on prosecutorial discretion because there was no

                        mention that krol-hmelak’s charges were modified, contrary

                    to the case of julia bohl (discussed above at [101]–[105]). neither

                    could it be suggested that the reference to the judiciary not being “free

                    to decide who should live and who should die” was merely a general

                    critique of the mandatory nature of the death

                    penalty in singapore. such a reading clearly ignores the surrounding context

                    which is concerned with the judge’s

                    acquittal of krol-hmelak. accordingly, any impropriety suggested by the

                    appellant in the fourth statement must have been aimed squarely at the judiciary.
110    this is reinforced by the second portion

                    where the appellant suggests that the acquittal of krol-hmelak was a

                    “government verdict not a judicial

                    one” [emphasis added]. this makes clear reference to the act of verdict-giving which is solely within the province of

                    the judiciary. when read together with the role attributed to lai kew

                    chai j (“judge lai suddenly

                        announced them both not guilty” [emphasis added]), as well

                    as the fact that there was no mention of any prosecutorial decision on charges

                    being made at this stage, it is clear, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the

                    fourth statement refers to the judiciary.
111    the appellant argues that the fourth

                    statement constitutes “fair criticism” by virtue of the subsequent

                    reference to defence counsel’s notes at the trial of krol-hmelak. however,

                    it is our view that this does not constitute a rational basis for the appellant

                    to have made the fourth statement, in so far as it is not “supported by

                    argument and evidence” (see tan liang joo

                        john at [16], quoted at

                        [81] above). the defence counsel’s

                    notes, as reproduced at pages 101 and 102 of the book, contain no assertion

                    whatsoever that there was any impropriety on the part of lai kew chai j.

                    accordingly, the fourth statement does not amount to fair

                criticism.
112    in the end, it is clear beyond a reasonable

                    doubt that the fourth statement poses a real risk of undermining public

                    confidence in the administration of justice in singapore.
the fifth statement
113    the fifth statement, at page 3 of the

                    book, is general in nature and reads as follows:
many of the cases i have investigated in this book show that justice in

                        singapore is patently biased against the weak and disadvantaged while

                        favouring the wealthy and privileged.
114    the judge held that “justice in

                    singapore” is not dispensed by the prosecution; it is dispensed by the

                    courts (see shadrake 1 at [102]). he further noted that, when read

                    together with the allegation of “government verdict” in

                    krol-hmelak (see the fourth statement) and his allegations of favouritism in the

                    sentences of dinesh bhatia (see the seventh statement) and andrew veale (see the

                    eighth statement), it becomes apparent that the fifth statement encompasses

                    cases where the courts are alleged to have favoured the wealthy and the

                    privileged (see shadrake 1 at [102]).
115    consistent with our analysis of the first

                    statement, we agree with the reasoning of the judge. whilst “justice in

                    singapore” may encompass a number of organisations (including the

                    attorney-general’s chambers, which exercises, inter

                        alia, prosecutorial discretion), the fifth statement

                    unambiguously refers to the institution which administers justice in a judicial context, viz, the

                    judiciary. following from this, the fifth statement alleges impropriety on the

                    part of the judiciary, inasmuch as the judiciary is “patently biased

                    against the weak and disadvantaged while favouring the wealthy and

                    privileged”. this poses a real risk of undermining public confidence in

                    the administration of justice for the statement expresses the very antithesis of what the judiciary is sworn to do: to

                    discharge judicial duties in accordance with the constitution and the law,

                    without fear or favour, affection or ill-will.
116    we note that the appellant does not raise

                    any arguments of fair criticism with regard to the fifth statement. for

                    completeness, however, we would note that there is no basis for the appellant to

                    contend that the fifth statement was fair criticism because there is no rational

                    basis presented by the appellant for the making of the fifth statement. this

                    does not contradict the judge’s finding in shadrake 1 (at [104]–[105]) that

                    the sixth statement is not contemptuous. the sixth statement was specifically addressed

                    to the incidence of the death penalty, not whether

                    the courts are biased against certain groups in imposing the death penalty. this

                    is in contradistinction to the fifth statement, which is a broader allegation of

                    the judiciary’s bias in general.
the seventh statement
117    the seventh statement, comprising three

                    passages at pages 140–141 of the book, refers to the case of

                        dinesh singh bhatia s/o amarjeet singh v public

                        prosecutor [2005] 3 slr(r) 1 (“bhatia”), where v k rajah j

                    reduced the sentence of the defendant to eight months from the 12 months

                    imposed by the district court. the three passages in the seventh statement (in

                    bold italics below) are found in two paragraphs, which commence by referring to

                    a drug raid on 7 october 2004 before continuing, as follows:
of the arrests that night, the most surprising was that of a former high

                        court judge’s son, dinesh singh bhatia, 35, a private equity investor.

                        his father, amarjeet singh, a former judicial commissioner and also a senior

                        counsel, served on the united nations war crimes tribunal for the balkans.

                        dinesh’s mother, dr kanwaljit soin, was a former nominated mp and

                        orthopaedic surgeon, and director of the london-based help age

                        international, a global network helping the disadvantaged elderly. dinesh

                        was charged with cocaine consumption, and was facing 10 years behind

                        bars or fined s$20,000 or both. but funny things often

                            seem to happen on the way to court houses in singapore. instead of

                            getting ten years and a heavy fine, bhatia, was jailed for only

                            12 months for consuming cocaine. his lawyer, a

                        people’s action party mp, k. shanmugam, had told the court that

                        bhatia was not an addict at all. he was given a drug by a friend but

                        ‘did not know that it was cocaine’ although he had a

                        ‘fleeting suspicion’ the substance could be illegal. ‘he

                        took in only impulse’, said shanmugam. an internet

                            blogger wryly commented: ‘i would not remotely suggest that it

                            might have helped bhatia’s case that his father was a judge, and

                            his mother a former singapore member of parliament. ignorance of the law

                            is no defence!’
so should bhatia, a sophisticate about town, have known he was sticking

                        something illegal up his nose? on 7 april 2005, according to court

                        records, bhatia appealed against his 12-month sentence and asked for a heavy

                        fine instead. calling the previous sentence ‘excessive’, the

                        appeal judge, vk rajah, said that the district judge erred by not

                        tailoring the sentence to fit the offender and failed to ‘attach

                        adequate weight and merit to all the relevant mitigating factors.’ he

                        said the trial judge did not adequately consider the fact that

                        bhatia’s consumption was neither planned nor purchased.

                        justice rajah then cut bhatia’s sentence to eight months.

                            on 7 july 2005, the straits times reported that

                            bhatia was ‘now at home serving out his sentence wearing an

                            electronic tag he cannot remove’. it did not say when this

                            favourable treatment began. [emphasis added in bold

                        italics]
118    the judge held that the seventh statement

                    was in contempt of court. in that statement, the appellant describes

                    bhatia’s initial sentence as “only 12 months” as

                    opposed to “10 years and a heavy fine”, refers to the

                    identities and social position of bhatia’s parents, refers to the

                    sarcastic comment of an internet blogger that bhatia’s sentence had

                    nothing to do with the identities of his parents, and describes bhatia’s

                    home detention as “favourable treatment” (see shadrake 1 at [107]). the judge was of the view that the juxtaposition of

                    facts is mischievous, and the unmistakable insinuation is that bhatia was shown

                    favouritism both in his sentence and the way he served it (ibid).
119    the judge noted further that, despite the

                    appellant confirming that he had read rajah j’s judgment in bhatia, the appellant did not attempt to refer to and

                    refute the reasons given in rajah j’s written judgment when such

                    refutation would have been an obvious thing to do if one was alleging that the

                    sentence meted out was influenced by favouritism (see shadrake 1 at [109]).
120    we agree with the judge. the allegation of

                    favouritism is clear from both the facts and context of the seventh statement

                    and the tone of mock irony does not even begin to mask this allegation but, on

                    the contrary, exacerbates it. the central thrust of the seventh statement is

                    clear and is centred on, inter alia, the premise

                    that the judiciary is susceptible to (and indeed practises) nepotism at the

                    expense of judicial impartiality and integrity. in the circumstances, it is

                    clear, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the seventh statement does constitute a

                    contempt of court. above all, the public takes the objectivity of the judicial

                    process as a given – which is simultaneously

                    a process that does not (and cannot) brook even a hint of favouritism. it is

                    clear to us that an average reasonable person would realise what the appellant

                    was alleging.
121    we are cognisant of the fact that the

                    appellant had admitted in the court below that his statement that bhatia

                    “was jailed for only 12 months” instead of “getting

                    10 years and a heavy fine” was a mistake (see shadrake 1 at [110]) – in other words, the appellant had conceded that

                    he erred in fact with regard to the first portion of the seventh statement in

                    bold italics (see above at [117]). however,

                    this portion cannot be read in isolation but must be read together with the

                    other portions as an integrated whole. by parity of reasoning, the

                    appellant’s qualification found just after the seventh statement at

                    page 141, read in its context (rather than in isolation), is

                    disingenuous:
but during my meeting with anandan he denied that bhatia received special

                        treatment because of his family connections. ‘he was treated no

                        differently than anyone else facing such charges’, he said.
122    as the judge aptly observed, the attempt by

                    the appellant to mix-and-match various observations was but a thinly veiled

                    disguise of what constituted the true thrust of the statement itself, viz, an allegation of favouritism on the part of the

                    judiciary. even then, phrases such as “funny things often seem to happen

                    on the way to court houses in singapore” do not even begin to serve as a

                    mask, as we have seen with a similar approach (as well as turn of phrase) with

                    regard to the fourth statement (above at [109]).
123    accordingly, it has been demonstrated beyond

                    a reasonable doubt that the seventh statement poses a real risk of undermining

                    public confidence in the administration of justice. we note that the statement

                    does not constitute fair criticism as the appellant did not evidence a rational

                    basis for it. in particular, we endorse the judge’s pertinent observation

                    that the appellant did not attempt to refer to and refute the reasons given in

                    rajah j’s written judgment (see shadrake 1 at [109]).
the eighth statement
124    the eighth statement, at page 141 of

                    the book, refers to the cases of andrew veale and penelope pang, two other drug

                    consumers who were caught in the same operation as dinesh bhatia (see shadrake 1 at [112]). it reads as follows:
briton andrew veale, a top financial broker and a 10 year resident,

                        who drove a rolls royce often with his singaporean girlfriend, penelope pang

                        su-yin, 35, daughter of the organiser of the miss universe pageant, were

                        next to appear in court. they too got off lightly with jail sentences

                        amounting to no more than eight months with remission. veale, was a broker

                        with structured credit desk dealing in derivatives and financial products,

                        and the sort of people singapore needs.
125    the judge held that the assertions that

                    veale and pang “got off lightly with jail sentences amounting to no more

                    than eight months with remission” and that veale “was the sort of

                    people singapore needs” clearly insinuate that veale and pang were given

                    light sentences by the court due to extraneous considerations (see shadrake 1 at [113]). he noted further that there was no rational basis for

                    the appellant’s insinuation that the court sentencing veale gave him a

                    light sentence because he was “the sort of people singapore needs”

                        (ibid).
126    the appellant sought to characterise this

                    statement as a straightforward recitation of veale and pang’s sentence

                    with a sober assessment that they “got off lightly”.
127    we reject this argument. it is our view that

                    the eighth statement, which insinuates that a light sentence was given by the

                    court due to extraneous considerations, poses, beyond a reasonable doubt, a real

                    risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice. we note

                    that the appellant did not raise any argument of fair criticism with regard to

                    this particular statement. for completeness, however, we would note that the

                    eighth statement cannot amount to fair criticism for the reasons given by the

                    judge in the court below (ibid).
the ninth, tenth and eleventh statements
128    the ninth to eleventh statements can be

                    taken together. they refer to the case of vignes mourthi, who was convicted of

                    drug trafficking and sentenced to death (see public

                        prosecutor v vignes s/o mourthi & anor

                    [2002] sghc 240, affirmed in vignes s/o mourthi v

                        public prosecutor [2003] 3 slr(r) 105) (see shadrake 1 at [115]). the statements are, respectively, as follows:
(a)     the ninth statement, at

                        page 162 of the book, reads as follows:
no doubt many members of singapore’s judiciary were also aware

                            of what was going on behind the scenes concerning the rape, sodomy and

                            corruption charges hanging over rajkumar, yet not one of them had the

                            guts to speak out in protest.
(b)     the tenth

                        statement, at page 163 of the book, reads as follows:
but i can reveal, following intensive inquiries and talking in

                            confidence to several lawyers on condition that i would not expose them

                            to the authorities in any way, that the high echelons of the judiciary

                            and prosecution from the attorney general down knew all about rajkumar

                            and were intent on keeping his evil, corrupt deeds under wraps until

                            vignes mourthi was hanged.
(c)     the eleventh

                        statement, at page 165 of the book, the last page of the chapter on the

                        case of vignes mourthi, reads as follows:
here the words of the nobel laureate, amartya sen, seem

                            the most appropriate postscript to the sordid tale of the death of

                            vignes mourti [sic]:
… democracy becomes dysfunctional when the bureaucracy, the

                                judiciary, the legislature, the private sector, the police and the

                                military all use their power to enrich themselves and advance their

                                own interests at the expense of civil society. laws not

                                withstanding, corruption undermines the rule of law.
129    the statements set out in the preceding

                    paragraph relate to the fact that sgt rajkumar from the central narcotics

                    bureau was under investigation for offences under the prevention of corruption

                    act (cap 241, 2002 rev ed) at about the same time as he was giving evidence

                    in mourthi’s case (see shadrake 1 at

                        [116]). sgt rajkumar was

                    subsequently convicted on the same corruption offences (see public prosecutor v s rajkumar [2005] sgdc 77). the charges

                    related, among other things, to offering a bribe to a woman he was alleged to

                    have raped, in an attempt to induce her to withdraw her complaints (ibid). this, the appellant alleges, was not disclosed to

                    the trial judge in mourthi’s case.
130    the appellant argues that the ninth, tenth

                    and eleventh statements bookend a crucial and carefully transcribed conversation

                    between the appellant and anandan (who represented both mourthi and

                    sgt rajkumar). the appellant further submits that the totality of the

                    analysis (at pages 148–165 of the book) represents a carefully

                    researched and finely worded consideration of a potential miscarriage of

                    justice. accordingly, the appellant argues that reasonable inferences are drawn

                    (deriving from statistical analysis of the make-up of the judiciary documented

                    by ross worthington in “between hermes and themis: an empirical study of

                    the contemporary judiciary in singapore” (2001) 28(4) journal of law

                    and society 490). the statements, the appellant argues, by no means exceed the

                    bounds of fair criticism required for establishing liability for scandalising

                    contempt.
131    we reject these arguments. in our view, the

                    ninth, tenth and eleventh statements are clear instances of scandalising

                    contempt. as observed by the judge, the appellant stated that the high echelons

                    of the judiciary, by which he must mean the judges of the supreme court,

                        knew about sgt rajkumar’s misdeeds

                    and were deliberately and culpably suppressing the fact of the investigation

                    into his acts and the proceedings against him until after mourthi was executed

                    (see shadrake 1 at [120]). in the circumstances, it is clear, beyond a reasonable

                    doubt, that there is a real risk of undermining public confidence in the

                    administration of justice.
132    we also agree with the judge’s

                    analysis that there is no rational basis for the ninth, tenth and eleventh

                    statements. the appellant asserted that the subordinate judiciary, which deals

                    with 95% of the cases in singapore, and the prosecutors, are both drawn from the

                    ranks of the legal service, and that in light of this, the judiciary would have

                    known of the proceedings against sgt rajkumar (see shadrake 1 at [121]).

                    reference was made to the fact that some of the judges of the supreme court were

                    elevated from the subordinate courts, or had served stints at the

                    attorney-general’s chambers (see shadrake 1 at [121]). the judge rejected this as being too incredible and

                    attenuated to form a rational basis for the appellant’s grave assertion

                    that the trial judge and the high echelons of the judiciary knew of

                    sgt rajkumar’s misdeeds and were complicit in the suppression of

                    possibly exculpatory evidence in a capital case (see shadrake 1 at [121]).
133    finally, we share the judge’s view

                    that the quotation from amartya sen was clearly directed at the vignes mourthi

                    case, as is evident from the phrase (“most appropriate postscript to the

                    sordid tale of the death of vignes mourti [sic]”). the appellant was clearly insinuating (via the

                    aforementioned quotation) that the singapore judges “use their power to

                    enrich themselves and advance their own interests at the expense of civil

                    society” (see shadrake 1 at [122]). a statement of this nature evidently

                    poses, beyond a reasonable doubt, a real risk of undermining public confidence

                    in the administration of justice. we therefore agree that this statement is in

                    contempt of court.
the thirteenth statement
134    although the judge analysed the thirteenth

                    and fourteenth statements together, we propose to analyse the statements

                    separately as they emanate from different chapters in the book.
135    the thirteenth statement is to be found at

                    page 217 of the book, and reads as follows:

the absence of independence in a compliant

                            judiciary and a media silenced through state ownership and

                        the ever-present threat of defamation and libel suits has created a climate

                        for the suppression of basic political freedoms. [emphasis added]
136    this particular statement explicitly states

                    that the judiciary is compliant and not independent, and accordingly (indeed,

                    obviously, in our view) presents a real risk of undermining public confidence in

                    the administration of justice. as noted by the judge (see shadrake 1 at [126]), similar statements have been held to be contemptuous in

                    other decisions, for example, attorney-general v pang cheng

                        lian [1974–1976] slr(r) 271; zimmerman; wain; lingle; chee soon juan;

                    and hertzberg (although this should not be taken

                    to mean that criticisms of the judiciary’s conduct and partiality should

                    as a matter of course constitute contempt: see [84] above). accordingly, the focus vis-à-vis the thirteenth statement is the applicability of

                    the concept of fair criticism.
137    in making the thirteenth statement, the

                    appellant refers to the report of the international bar association’s

                    human rights institute, prosperity versus individual rights?

                        human rights, democracy and the rule of law in singapore (july

                    2008) (“the iba report”) (see shadrake 1 at [127]). the extract of the iba report quoted by the judge (see

                        shadrake 1 at [130]) is as follows (see page 70 of the

                    iba report):
… in cases involving pap [people’s action party] litigants or

                        pap interests, there are concerns about an actual or apparent lack of

                        impartiality and/or independence, which casts doubt on the decisions made in

                        such cases. although this may not go so far as claimed by some

                        non-governmental organisations, which allege that the judiciary is entirely

                        controlled by the will of the executive, there are sufficient reasons to

                        worry about the influence of the executive over judicial decision making.

                        regardless of any actual interference, the reasonable suspicion of

                        interference is sufficient. in addition, it appears that some of the

                        objective characteristics of judicial independence, including security of

                        tenure, separation from the executive branch and administrative independence

                        may be absent from the singapore judicial system.
138    as is clear, although the discussion of the

                    iba report does precede the paragraph in which the thirteenth statement is

                    found, the latter is more general in nature. this

                    is not surprising as it occurs in the very last chapter of the book where, broad

                    themes are – as is usual with final chapters - drawn

                    together in an overall conclusion (indeed, this particular chapter is entitled

                    “whither singapore?”). in this regard, it bears quoting in full

                    the entire paragraph in which the thirteenth statement is located (the

                    thirteenth statement is in bold italics in the passage that follows):
today singapore is an extremely wealthy, globalised city-state. but far

                        from giving its political elite the ‘confidence and maturity’ to

                        open up the political system, to tolerate dissent and criticism and to

                        protect fundamental human rights, the pap government has actually chosen to

                        go in the opposite direction. it has solidified its near monopoly on the

                        political apparatus of the state by perverting the rights guaranteed in the

                        constitution through the passage and arbitrary enforcement of

                        unconstitutional domestic laws. the absence of

                            independence in a compliant judiciary and a media silenced through state

                            ownership and the ever-present threat of defamation and libel suits has

                            created a climate for the suppression of basic political

                            freedoms. and in that context there is simply no meaningful debate about the death penalty and its

                            repercussions. [emphasis added]
139    in our view, the paragraph just quoted is

                    general in nature. the reference, therefore, to “[t]he absence of

                    independence in a compliant judiciary” appears to be a general one that

                    is a sweeping indictment of the judiciary in the final chapter of the book. the

                    seriousness of this allegation calls for a highly cogent rational basis (see

                        shadrake 1 at [72]). in this regard, the iba report, which

                    focuses on defamation without the slightest

                    reference to the death penalty, cannot provide a rational basis for the

                    insinuation that debate – and a fortiori

                    “meaningful debate” – about the death

                        penalty is “suppress[ed]” by a “compliant

                    judiciary”. the thirteenth statement therefore does not constitute fair

                    criticism. in fact, as noted in [136]

                    above, it poses, beyond a reasonable doubt, a real risk of undermining public

                    confidence in the administration of justice, and accordingly amounts to

                    scandalising contempt.
the fourteenth statement
140    the fourteenth statement is found at

                    page 207 of the book. it reads as follows:
the ruling party in singapore often sues those who dare oppose it on

                        trumped up defamation charges, forcing many into bankruptcy or exile.
141    the appellant argued in the court below that

                    this statement was directed at the political tactics of the ruling party. the

                    judge rejected this argument on the basis that the appellant’s insinuation

                    that “trumped up defamation charges” are nevertheless successful

                    “in forcing many into bankruptcy or exile” is clearly directed at

                    the courts (see shadrake 1 at [126]).
142    in our view, this particular statement is

                    similar to the second statement inasmuch as there is no reference (either on a

                    literal or contextual reading) to the judiciary as such. indeed, the focus

                    appears to be on “[t]he ruling party in singapore”. this

                    interpretation is buttressed by the phrase “often sues” as well as

                    by the sentences immediately before and after (which discuss executive –

                    as opposed to judicial – action). whilst it is true that defamation as

                    well as bankruptcy proceedings do involve the courts, it appears that the

                    appellant’s focus is (as just mentioned) on whom he perceives are

                        the initiators of such proceedings and, more

                    importantly, their motives for initiating such proceedings (hence, the use of

                    words such as “trumped up” and “charges”, the latter

                    word of which is more appropriate to the criminal context (although it is

                    unclear whether the appellant was consciously utilising the analogy of criminal

                    prosecution)). it is true that the fourteenth statement could also be

                    interpreted as referring to the courts in so far as the courts must arrive at

                    decisions that have the result of “forcing many into bankruptcy or

                    exile”. on yet another interpretation, one could state that the courts

                    would have arrived at the decisions they did based on the relevant principles of

                    law, although (in the appellant’s view) this would have the effect just

                    mentioned. however, there is, in our view, no clear reference to the courts as

                    such. put simply, the respondent has not proved, beyond a

                        reasonable doubt, that the fourteenth statement is in contempt of

                    court and we so hold.
conclusion
143    in summary, we agree with the judge’s

                    findings that the first, fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh

                    and thirteenth statements are contemptuous. these statements scandalise the very

                    core of the mission and function of the judiciary. more than that, their

                    cumulative effect reveals a marshalling of a series of fabrications, distortions

                    and false imputations in relation to the courts of singapore. while the

                    appellant is free to engage in the debate for or against capital punishment, he

                    is not free to deliberately and systematically scandalise the courts in

                    attempting to substantiate his case against capital punishment.
144    however, we differ from the judge’s

                    findings in that we do not find the second and

                    fourteenth statements to be contemptuous.
145    we turn now to the issue of

                sentence.
the issue of sentence
the applicable principles
146    it is important to note at the outset that

                    sentencing, by its very nature, is not an exact science. neither is it –

                    nor ought it ever to be - an arbitrary exercise of raw

                    discretion. the court concerned follows guidelines. however, guidelines are

                    precisely what they mean and must not be applied as if they are writ in

                    jurisprudential stone.
147    some of the more common sentencing

                    guidelines or factors in the context of contempt proceedings include the

                    following: the culpability of the contemnor; the nature and gravity of the

                    contempt (see, eg, tan liang

                        joo john at [31]); the

                    seriousness of the occasion on which the contempt was committed (ibid); the number of contemptuous statements made (see,

                        eg, zimmerman at

                        [51] and hertzberg at [59]); the

                    type and extent of dissemination of the contemptuous statements; the importance

                    of deterring would-be contemnors from following suit (see, eg, tan liang joo john at

                        [31]); whether the contemnor is a

                    repeat offender (see, eg, hertzberg at [59]); and

                    whether or not the contemnor was remorseful (this particular factor being

                    embodied paradigmatically in a sincere apology (see, eg, hertzberg at [59] and tan liang joo

                        john at [39])). however,

                    the categories of guidelines or factors are obviously not closed and much would

                    depend, in the final analysis, on the precise facts and context

                    concerned.
148    what is clear, in our view, however, is that

                        there is no starting-point of imprisonment for the

                        offence of scandalising contempt. the authority that is

                    apparently to the contrary, viz, chee soon juan did not, on a close reading of the

                    decision itself, lay down such a broad and sweeping proposition. indeed, it is

                    only logical and commonsensical that the sanction imposed – whether it be

                    a fine or imprisonment (or a combination of both) – will depend, in the

                    final analysis, on the precise facts and context of each case.
our decision
149    we have differed somewhat from the judge on

                    the issue of liability inasmuch as we have found that nine (instead of eleven)

                    of the fourteen impugned statements are in contempt of court. however, the nine

                    statements that are in contempt of court constitute serious acts of scandalising

                    contempt, as we have noted above at [143].

                    indeed, as the judge aptly pointed out in shadrake 2 at [28],

                    the sheer breadth and gravity of the appellant’s allegations of judicial

                    impropriety were
… without precedent in terms of their specificity, the number of

                        judges targeted (the whole supreme court bench in vignes mourthi’s

                        case) and their gravity, pertaining as they did to cases concerning the life

                        and liberty of those who come before the courts. in particular they surpass

                        the allegations made in chee soon juan

                        ( … ) and tan liang joo

                        ( … ), where sentences of imprisonment were imposed.

                        …
150    further, although the precise extent of

                    circulation in singapore was not established, counsel for the appellant,

                    mr ravi, had candidly stated during the hearing on liability that

                    “many lawyers are turning up in droves to buy – to have a copy of

                    the book” (see shadrake 2 at [27]), and that almost 6,000 copies had been

                    sold in singapore as well as overseas. the judge also observed that the impugned

                    statements were also made in a “more enduring medium than journals or

                    magazines” (ibid).
151    there are also no mitigating factors

                    whatsoever in this case that could possibly be considered in the

                    appellant’s favour. the judge has dealt with this issue comprehensively in

                    the court below. we would only emphasise the fact that there has not been an

                    iota of remorse demonstrated by the appellant who continues to stand by the

                    statements made. the appellant’s utter lack of remorse is exemplified by

                    his interview with the guardian as well as his

                    expressed intention to produce a second edition of the book. the guardian article was based on an interview with the

                    appellant, made after the judge delivered the written judgment with regard to

                    liability for contempt (in shadrake 1) and

                    after the appellant had had a chance to review the judge’s reasons for

                    finding him in contempt for eleven out of the fourteen statements impugned by

                    the respondent. amongst other things, the appellant insisted in the interview

                    that the book was “devastatingly accurate” and declared that:

                    “[t]his story is never going away. i’ll keep it on the boil for as

                    long as i live. they’re going to regret they ever started this.”

                    (see shadrake 2 at [3]). in so far as the appellant’s

                    intention to produce a second edition of the book is concerned, the judge found

                    this act of defiance to be “unprecedented in our case law” which

                    called for “a strong element of specific deterrence in determining the

                    sentence.” (shadrake 2 at [35]). notwithstanding this, the appellant

                    instructed his counsel to inform the judge during the hearing on sentence that

                    he did not mean to allege a cover-up by the “high echelons of the

                    judiciary” in vignes mourthi’s case, despite his express words to

                    the contrary in the book. however, the judge found that the appellant’s

                    proposal to apologise must be regarded as “nothing more than a tactical

                    ploy to obtain a reduced sentence” (see shadrake 2 at [34]). we should, in fairness to the appellant, note that the

                    publication of the second edition of the book might not be an aggravating factor

                    provided it does not contain the impugned statements. that having been said,

                    even assuming that this is the case, we fail to see how it could – from

                    the perspective of logic and commonsense – constitute a mitigating factor in the appellant’s favour.
152    what the appellant chooses to do (or, as the

                    case may be, not to do) is, of course, his prerogative but he cannot complain if

                    the court takes into account – as it must – such conduct as

                    mentioned above in arriving at the sentence to be meted out to him. he cannot

                    expect mitigating factors to be exercised in his favour when his conduct

                    steadfastly prevents such factors from coming into existence in the first place.

                    he cannot have it both ways.
153    notwithstanding that we have found two of

                    the eleven statements (originally found to be contemptuous by the judge) not to

                    be contemptuous, having regard to the other factors which we have dealt with

                    above, this is still the worst case of scandalising contempt that has hitherto

                    come before the singapore courts. in our view, the appellant’s conduct

                    merits a substantial custodial sentence.
154    we pause at this juncture to respectfully

                    disagree with the judge in so far as he granted the appellant an unquantified

                    discount (albeit “entirely undeserved” and “which will and

                    should not be taken as a precedent”) in the sentence meted out in order

                    “to signal that the courts have no interest in stifling legitimate debate

                    on the death penalty and other areas of law” (see shadrake 2 at [42]). it is clear that debate on the death penalty as well as other

                    areas of law has been – and will always be

                        - open to all. however,

                    when conduct crosses the legal line and constitutes scandalising contempt, it is

                        no longer legitimate and, ex hypothesi, a discount cannot be accorded to the contemnor for

                    doing the very thing which is an abuse of the

                    right to free speech in general and the right to engage in legitimate debate with regard to the topic (or topics) concerned

                    in particular.
155    nonetheless, while we disagree with the

                    judge’s application of a discount, we affirm the judge’s sentence

                    meted out in the court below. first, we would emphasise a point noted earlier

                    (at [87]), viz, that the respondent did not file a cross-appeal against the

                    judge’s decision on both liability as well as sentence, opining instead

                        that:[note: 1]
the sentence of 6 weeks’ imprisonment and fine of $20,000

                        imposed by the judge is certainly not excessive and in fact, is on the low

                        end of the condign punishment that could have been meted out.
second, as noted above, we have found that two of the statements

                    originally found to be contemptuous by the judge were not in fact contemptuous,

                        ie, only nine (instead of eleven) of the

                    fourteen impugned statements were found by us to be contemptuous.
156    in the premises, we affirm the sentence

                    imposed by the judge below with regard to both fine as well as imprisonment. the

                    appellant is therefore to serve a sentence of six weeks’ imprisonment and

                    is to pay a fine of $20,000 (in default of which the appellant is to serve a

                    further two weeks in prison, with such further term to run consecutively to the

                    first).
157    the judge’s costs order in the court

                    below stands. the usual consequential orders will apply. the costs of the

                    present appeal are to be taxed if not agreed.
[note: 1]see the respondent’s case (filed 1 april

                                2011), para 223copyright © government of singapore.