lam chi kin david

      v

      deutsche bank ag

    [2010] sgca 42case number:civil appeal no 41 of 2010decision date:01 december 2010tribunal/court:court of appealcoram:

      chan sek keong cj; 

      andrew phang boon leong ja; 

      v k rajah ja

    counsel name(s):

      christopher chong, kelvin teo and jasmine kok (mpillay) for the appellant; 

      ang cheng hock sc, paul ong, goh zhuo neng and nakul dewan (allen & gledhill llp) for the respondent.

    parties:

      lam chi kin david — 

      deutsche bank ag

    
[lawnet editorial note: the decision from which this appeal arose is

                    reported at

                [2010] 2 slr 896.]
1 december 2010judgment reserved.


        chan sek keong cj (delivering the judgment of the

                court):
introduction
1       this is an appeal by lam chi kin david

                    (“the appellant”) against the decision of the judicial

                    commissioner (“the jc”) in suit no 834 of 2008 in dismissing

                    his claim against deutsche bank ag, singapore branch (“the

                    respondent”) for damages for breach of contract, and in giving judgment

                    for the respondent for the sum of us$1,135,239.43 for its counterclaim against

                    the appellant for payment of his outstanding liabilities with interest and costs

                    (see lam chi kin david v deutsche bank ag [2010]

                    2 slr 896 (“the gd”)).
2       the material facts are as follows. in november

                    2007, the appellant became a private banking client of the respondent. he signed

                    the following agreements with the respondent:
(a)     an agreement called “deutsche

                        bank master agreement for foreign exchange transactions and derivatives

                        transactions” dated 28 november 2007 (“the master

                        agreement”);
(b)     an undated document called “service agreement”

                        (“the service agreement”);
(c)     a risk disclosure statement dated

                        28 november 2007, for all types of accounts; and
(d)     a security agreement dated

                        28 november 2007 (“the security

                    agreement”).
subsequently the appellant signed two

                    other documents, viz:
(e)     a short term facilities/foreign

                        exchange facility dated 21 july 2008 (“the short term/foreign

                        exchange facility”); and
(f)     a declaration of pledge (first party) dated 28 august

                        2008.
3       the master agreement is intended to apply to all

                    transactions between the respondent (referred to therein as “the

                    bank”) and the appellant (referred to therein as the

                    “counterparty”) as the recital states that the respondent and the

                    appellant “have entered and/or anticipate entering into one or more

                    transactions (each a “transaction”) that are or will be governed

                    by this master agreement”. clause 9 of the master agreement provides that

                    the respondent and the appellant may “enter into such transactions under

                    this agreement as they may from time to time determine” and that such

                    transactions include, without limitation, the following: (a) fx

                    transactions and currency option transactions; (b) equity option and equity

                    swap transactions; (c) swap transactions; and (d) other

                    transactions.
4       clause 2.5 of the master agreement provides

                    that each transaction shall not become effective until the counterparty has

                    signed the respondent’s service agreement and other documents requested by

                    the respondent from time to time (see [23]

                    below for the text of cl 2.5). the service agreement provides, inter alia, for the granting of credit facilities to the

                    customer. pursuant to this provision, the respondent granted to the appellant a

                    credit line of united states dollar (“usd”) 200,000,000 on the

                    terms of the short term/foreign exchange facility (see [2(e)] above). the credit

                    facilities granted to the appellant under the short term/foreign exchange

                    facility were secured (or collateralised) by the appellant’s currency

                    deposits held by the respondent under the security agreement.
5       in connection with or pursuant to these two

                    agreements, the appellant opened two accounts with the respondent: (a) a

                    private wealth management account (account no 6017180) (“the advisory

                    account”); and (b) a foreign exchange gem account (account no

                    2658540). in this appeal, only the master agreement and the service agreement

                    are material to the issues raised by the parties. as will be seen, the legal

                    relationship between the master agreement and the service agreement is crucial

                    to the determination of the issues arising in this appeal.
the appellant’s transactions with the respondent
6       the transactions that the appellant entered into

                    with the respondent that are relevant to this appeal were foreign exchange

                    (“fx”) contracts made under a “carry trade investment

                    strategy”. this strategy involved the appellant in arbitraging on the

                    interest rate differentials between different currencies. the appellant would

                    buy currencies carrying low interest rates and convert them into other

                    currencies carrying higher deposit interest rates, and thereby lock in a

                    guaranteed gain from these differences in interest rates. however, as is common

                    knowledge, this kind of carry trade also carries with it the risks associated

                    with fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies

                involved.
7       the appellant is a knowledgeable and

                    sophisticated currency arbitrageur. as will be seen, he appeared to have a

                    better understanding of how foreign exchange market worked than the

                    respondent’s officers who were servicing his trading account (ie, the advisory account). the currencies which the

                    appellant was allowed to trade in under the short term/foreign exchange facility

                    covered 23 currencies. however, in this appeal, the relevant currencies are

                    australian dollars (“aud”), swiss francs (“chf”),

                    japanese yen (“jpy”) and new zealand dollars

                    (“nzd”).
the material events
8       in early october 2008, the foreign exchange

                    market became very volatile and the relevant exchange rates of the currencies of

                    the appellant’s transactions started to move against him. on

                    7 october 2008, the respondent faxed to the appellant a letter (“the

                    7 october 2008 letter”) informing him that his “collateral

                    availability” in relation to his currency deposits in aud and nzd were

                        “negative usd610,000”. this

                    collateral shortfall increased the next day. on 8 october 2008, the

                    respondent faxed another letter (“the 8 october 2008 letter”)

                    to the appellant informing him that based on that morning’s rates of aud

                    0.7084, nzd 0.6248, jpy 101.30 and chf 1.1416, there was “a shortfall in

                    [the appellant’s] account approximating usd2.3mil”. both letters

                    contained the following note:
this is not an official bank’s statement or advice and is not a

                        substitute for our official statements or advices. this summary is prepared

                        for you as a service to provide account information and is intended for

                        discussion purposes only. ...
the meaning of the note is clear beyond any doubt. thus, the two

                    letters were not demands for additional collateral or for any action to be taken

                    by the appellant vis-à-vis his financial position

                    with the respondent. they were intended for information and discussion purposes

                    only.
9       it is not disputed that while there was a

                    collateral shortfall in the appellant’s account on 7 and 8 october

                    2008, his account remained in “positive equity” (ie, the mark-to-market value of his liabilities to the

                    respondent was less than the market value of his collateralised assets).

                    however, on 10 october 2008, the shortfall increased further to around usd

                    5,460,370.02, resulting in the appellant’s account having “negative

                    equity” of usd 1,054,612.74 as well (ie,

                    the mark-to-market value of his liabilities exceeded the market value of his

                    collateralised assets). in other words, if the appellant’s assets were

                    liquidated on 10 october 2008, the proceeds from the liquidation would not

                    have been sufficient to cover his liabilities to the respondent. this was not

                    the case between 7 and 9 october 2008 when the appellant’s account

                    remained in positive equity.
10     this led to the respondent faxing another

                    letter to the appellant dated 10 october 2008 (“the 10 october

                    2008 letter”) which stated, inter alia, as

                    follows:
we refer to the ... master agreement ... and the ... service agreement ...

                        (together, “the agreement”) ...
under the terms of the agreement, you have agreed to maintain the value of

                        the collateral pledged to us at not less than 100% of your total exposure to

                        us. we wish to advise you that there is a current shortfall of usd5,460,370.02 between the collateral value and

                        your total exposure.
accordingly, we request that you take immediate steps to restore the

                        shortfall in the collateral value by 5pm singapore time

                            today. you may either provide additional security to us or

                        reduce your total exposure. notwithstanding the foregoing, we would also

                        like to bring to your attention that during this interim period when the

                        shortfall is outstanding, we reserve all our rights under the agreement,

                        which include without limitation the right without prior notice to terminate

                        early and close out your outstanding contracts and sell any or all of your

                        property or collateral and apply the sale proceeds (after deduction of

                        costs) to discharge your liabilities.
[emphasis in bold in original]
11     the said letter was faxed to the appellant at

                    about 11.15am (reflecting the appellant’s collateral position with the

                    respondent at around that time). at 4.32pm, the respondent’s relationship

                    manager, ms cynthia chin mei lin (“ms chin”) telephoned

                    the appellant. during this conversation, ms chin told the appellant that

                    the respondent would not close out his account immediately, but only that he

                    should give a commitment to remit additional funds (to his account) to cover the

                    negative equity by 13 october 2008. ms chin also estimated that the

                    loss which the respondent would suffer if all of his fx contracts were closed

                    out on that day would be about usd 1 million.
12     at 5.06pm, ms chin telephoned the

                    appellant and told him that she had no authority to “sit on this one

                    million” negative equity position overnight, unless the appellant made a

                    commitment to remit additional funds to his account by 13 october 2008.

                    during this conversation, the appellant protested that the respondent had no

                    right to ask for such a commitment as he had been promised a 48-hour grace

                    period (“the grace period”) for any margin call by the respondent.

                    ms chin acknowledged that such a promise had been made, but replied that

                    the respondent could close his account immediately if it did not want to do

                    business with him. the appellant refused to give the commitment ms chin

                    wanted because (as he later candidly admitted in his evidence) he knew that he

                    would not be able to honour the commitment by 13 october 2008 (because even

                    if he had funds in other banks, he would not be able to remit the funds as it

                    needed two business days to do so: see [42]

                    below). at 7.19pm, the appellant informed ms chin that he was unable to

                    remit any money to cover the negative equity. he proposed to ms chin that

                    his fx positions be closed out partially on that day, and the rest on

                    13 october 2008 (which was the next business day for trading in the foreign

                    exchange market) to reduce his total exposure temporarily. at 7.53pm,

                    ms chin telephoned the appellant to inform him that his proposal had been

                    rejected and that the respondent would close out the various fx contracts in his

                    account.
13     on 13 october 2008, the respondent faxed

                    the appellant a summary of the transactions it had done on 10 october 2008

                    to close out his fx contracts, and followed it up with a letter of demand dated

                    13 october 2008 which read as follows:
we refer to the ... master agreement ... and the ... service agreement ...

                        (together, the “agreement”).
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the agreement and our rights

                        thereunder, and following our notice of demand dated 10 october 2008, we have executed various foreign

                        exchange conversion with respect to your cash deposits and have applied

                        proceeds from the foreign exchange conversion towards reducing your

                        outstanding liabilities.
notwithstanding the above, we would like to inform you that as at

                            13 october 2008, there is still an

                        outstanding amount of usd1,135,239.43 unpaid.

                        interest shall continue to accrue on the said amount until full

                        repayment.
please take immediate steps to repay the amount ... by 14 october 2008 failing which we shall take such steps

                        as are necessary ... including, commencement of legal proceedings against

                        you ...
[emphasis in bold in original]
14     the appellant rejected the demand and instead

                    commenced the present proceedings against the respondent for damages for breach

                    of duty in not closing out some of his fx contracts in a timely manner as he had

                    instructed ms chin to do and also in closing out all his fx contracts on

                    10 october 2008. the respondent countered by filing a counterclaim for the

                    amount of usd 1,191,779.27 (later amended to usd 1,206,738.59) being the net

                    amount due from the appellant. the appellant denied liability on the ground the

                    respondent was estopped from closing out his fx contracts on 10 october

                    2008 during the grace period.
the decision below
15     the material issues which came before the jc

                    for decision were as follows:
(a) whether the three letters dated 7, 8 and

                        10 october 2008 were margin calls under the master agreement and/or the

                        service agreement; and
(b)  whether the respondent had

                        given the grace period to the appellant, and if so, whether it was bound by

                        it, and therefore estopped from closing out his fx contracts until the

                        expiry of the grace period.
16     on the basis of the evidence adduced before

                    him, the jc found as a fact that the respondent did (through the

                    respondent’s managing director, mr torsten linke

                    (“mr linke”)) give the appellant the grace period to decide

                    how to respond to any margin call. however, he also held that the letters dated

                    7 and 8 october 2008 were in the nature of margin calls and that therefore

                    the grace period expired on 10 october 2008 when the respondent closed out

                    all of the appellant’s fx contracts. at [15]–[16] of the gd, the jc

                    addressed the legal issues, hypothetically or provisionally, in this way:
15    if the only valid margin call by the [respondent]

                            occurred on 10 october 2008 (which was a friday) as alleged by the

                            [appellant], then the earliest the [respondent] was entitled to close

                            out the [appellant’s] fx positions would be either first thing in

                            the morning of 13 october 2008 (if the 48-hour grace period

                            applies) or after 11.15am on 13 october 2008 (if cl 2.6

                            applies).
16 however, if the [respondent] had made an earlier valid margin call on

                        either 7 or 8 october 2008, the [appellant’s] submission would be

                        rendered moot because even if either or both the 48-hour grace period or

                        cl 2.6 had applied, the fx positions which were closed out at 8.00pm on

                        10 october 2008 would have been validly closed in any event.
17     after analysing the terms of the master

                    agreement and the service agreement as well as hearing the evidence of the

                    witnesses, the jc made the following findings at [73] of the gd:
by reason of the above findings, i hold that the [appellant’s] claim

                        fails at every level. first, at the threshold level, i find that the

                        [respondent] did make a valid margin call on 7 october 2008. on that

                        ground alone, the [appellant’s] claim must stand dismissed with costs.

                        secondly, even if the margin call was only made on 10 october 2008 and

                        not 7 october 2008 (contrary to my finding), cl 2.6 of the master

                        agreement did not govern the margin call and even if it did, it would

                        nonetheless not have assisted the [appellant] in the light of his own

                        unequivocal confirmation that he was unable and or unwilling to deliver

                        additional collateral to clear the margin shortfall even if time was

                        extended to 14 october 2008. finally, and even though i found that the

                        48-hour grace period was promised to the [appellant], the case based on

                        promissory estoppel would suffer the same fate for the same reason given the

                        [appellant’s] confirmation that he would not have been able to deliver

                        the additional collateral even if the grace period was extended beyond the

                        48-hour grace period.
it should be noted that although this passage made no reference to the

                    8 october 2008 letter, the jc had found, at [24] of the gd, that the grace

                    period in relation to the 8 october 2008 letter would also have expired on

                    10 october 2008.
issues on appeal
18     the issues for our decision are the same as

                    those set out at [15] above. we will now

                    address them.
were the letters dated 7, 8 and 10 october 2008 margin

                calls?
19     the first issue is whether the three letters

                    were, or in the nature of, margin calls under the master agreement and/or the

                    service agreement. the jc held that all three letters were margin calls for the

                    following reasons (see the gd at [23]):
(a)     the appellant admitted that because

                        of the shortfall of usd 610,000, the respondent was entitled to close the

                        advisory account on 7 october 2008;
(b)     the appellant had instructed ms chin at

                        4.59pm on 7 october 2008 to place a “limit order” to sell

                        aud 10 million for chf at the aud/chf exchange rate of 0.8413 for

                        the purpose of reducing the shortfall;
(c)     the appellant gave similar instructions to ms chin

                        on 8 october 2008 with respect to selling his nzd for jpy for the same

                        purpose; and
(d)     the appellant’s own conduct showed that he, as a seasoned fx

                        investor, knew exactly what he was required to do when his account fell into

                        margin shortfall.
20     with respect, we are unable to agree with the

                    jc’s approach in determining the legal rights of the respondent under the

                    letters dated 7 and 8 october 2008. in our view, these two letters were

                    clearly not margin calls and were not intended as margin calls. they were

                    notifications, to the appellant, of his “collateral availability”

                    (the 7 october 2008 letter) and his advisory account shortfall (the

                    8 october 2008 letter), and were “for discussion purposes

                    only”. having regard to the note contained in each letter (see [8] above), the contents of the letters were

                    self-explanatory. we do not agree that the appellant’s admissions and

                    instructions referred to at [19] above are

                    capable of conferring rights on the respondent under the 7 and 8 october

                    2008 letters if the letters themselves carry no such rights. the

                    appellant’s admissions or instructions to ms chin to take action on

                    his fx contracts cannot change the meaning or purport of the said letters. the

                    instructions given to ms chin on 7 and 8 october 2008 could only have

                    been given pursuant to the invitation to discuss the appellant’s fx

                    positions. hence, those instructions were not an admission of the

                    respondent’s contractual rights to close his fx positions without notice,

                    and those letters were not notices. furthermore, as will be seen, the admission

                    said to have been made by the appellant occurred during the various

                    conversations between the appellant and ms chin after he had received the

                    10 october 2008 letter which requested him to “take immediate steps

                    to restore the shortfall in the collateral value by 5pm singapore time [that

                    day]”. the transcripts of these conversations show clearly that the

                    appellant denied that the respondent was entitled to close his fx positions

                    until the expiry of the grace period to respond to the margin call. the

                    instructions of the appellant to ms chin to close some of his fx positions

                    were an attempt to meet the respondent’s request to reduce his total

                    exposure, nothing more. a seasoned currency arbitrageur, like the appellant,

                    would be expected to act in that way, even in the absence of any margin call, if

                    he felt that the exchange rates were moving against him. even the respondent

                    itself did not consider the 7 and 8 october 2008 letters to be margin calls

                    because the letter of demand dated 13 october 2008 (see [13] above) made no reference to the 7 and

                    8 october 2008 letters but only to the 10 october 2008 letter as the

                    basis for closing out all of the appellant’s fx positions. the jc’s

                    findings were clearly inconsistent with the express words of the 7 and

                    8 october 2008 letters.
21     on the other hand, we agree with the jc that

                    the 10 october 2008 letter was a margin call as it was expressed to be so

                    (the appellant does not dispute this). this letter would have been entirely

                    superfluous if the previous two letters had been margin calls. it was an express

                    notice to the appellant to “either provide additional security” or

                    to “reduce [his] total exposure”, then amounting to usd

                    5,460,370.02, which was the shortfall between the collateral value of the

                    appellant’s securities and his total exposure (the expressions

                    “collateral value” and “total exposure” are defined

                    in the service agreement under the section “credit,

                        banking and foreign exchange facilities”). although the

                    10 october 2008 letter gave the appellant until 5pm to respond to it, he

                    did so by telephoning ms chin to discuss the steps needed to be taken by

                    him to meet the request. his proposal of a partial closing out of his fx

                    positions (involving nzd 20 million), and the rest on 13 october 2008, in

                    order to reduce his total exposure was rejected. according to him, he was

                    hopeful (from his experience) that after the g7 meeting scheduled for that

                    weekend (ie, 11 and 12 october 2008), of

                    which the respondent was aware, the currency market would turn in his favour. he

                    was proven correct, as the exchange rates of the currencies he traded in did

                    move in his favour on 13 october 2008.
is cl 2.6 of the master agreement applicable to the 10 october 2008

                letter?
22     the next issue is whether cl 2.6 of the

                    master agreement applied to the 10 october 2008 letter. if it did, the

                    appellant would only be obliged to deliver any additional collateral requested

                    by the respondent “within one business day’s notice”. it is

                    not disputed that the 10 october 2008 letter would not comply with

                    cl 2.6 as it only gave the appellant up to 5pm to provide additional

                    collateral or to reduce his total exposure. in the event, the jc held that

                    cl 2.6 did not apply to the 10 october 2008 letter. his reasons are

                    set out in the gd at [34]–[39]. but before we examine these reasons, it is

                    necessary that we first examine cl 2.6 (as well as cl 2.5) of the

                    master agreement to see what they expressly provide.
23     clauses 2.5 and 2.6 of the master

                    agreement provide as follows:
2.5in relation to each transaction, it is a condition

                            precedent to the obligations of the bank in relation to that transaction

                            becoming effective that the counterparty enter into the bank’s

                            service agreement or other agreement (together, “the service

                            agreement”), the bank’s risk disclosure statement and any

                            credit support document as requested by the bank from time to time in

                            its absolute discretion. the bank may in its absolute discretion waive

                            such condition precedent for a particular transaction or transactions.

                            ...
2.6the bank shall at its absolute discretion

                            prescribe the amount of margin or collateral that the counterparty or

                            any credit support provider must provide to the bank in order to secure

                            the counterparty's obligations to the bank under the transactions, and

                            may from time to time amend or add to such margin or collateral

                            requirements. such margin or collateral requirements may be notified by

                            the bank to the counterparty in writing or verbally. if the bank shall for any reason deem that there is insufficient

                                collateral held pursuant to the terms of the credit support

                                documents that is available to satisfy the counterparty's present or

                                future obligations under this agreement or the counterparty's

                                present or future obligations under any other agreement or

                                arrangement between the counterparty and the bank, the counterparty

                                shallwithin one business day’s noticethereof deliver additional collateral of a type

                                acceptable to the bank in its sole discretion (which

                            collateral shall be delivered and secured pursuant to any existing

                            credit support document or other arrangement in a form satisfactory to

                            the bank in its sole discretion) in an amount as may be required by the

                            bank. the margin or collateral provided to the bank as security for the

                            counterparty’s obligations to the bank under the transactions is

                            in addition to and without prejudice to any other collateral or margin

                            which the bank may now or hereafter hold from the counterparty. ... for

                            the avoidance of doubt, if the counterparty fails to

                                deliver such additional collateral, such failure shall

                            constitute an event of default in respect of the counterparty pursuant

                            to clause 5 below and the bank may proceed to

                                terminate some or all of the transactions at its discretion pursuant

                                to clause 5 without further notice to the counterparty

                            other than the notice of termination to be provided under clause

                            5.4.
[emphasis added in italics and bold italics]
24     the master agreement, as its name implies, is

                    intended to apply to foreign exchange trading and derivatives transactions.

                        prima facie therefore, it applies to the

                    appellant’s fx contracts. but, as stated in cl 2.5, no transaction

                    (defined as any transaction between the respondent and the counterparty under

                    the master agreement) is effective vis-à-vis the

                    respondent until and unless the service agreement has first been signed –

                    the signing of the service agreement is a condition precedent to the

                    respondent’s obligations under the master agreement. in other words, the

                    service agreement becomes part and parcel of the master agreement, or vice versa

                    with respect to any transaction made under the master agreement. there is no

                    room to read the service agreement as an agreement completely divorced from the

                    master agreement.
25     under cl 2.6, the respondent has the

                    absolute discretion to prescribe the amount of the margin and the collateral

                    that the appellant must provide at any time and from time to time, and if the respondent deems the collateral to be

                        insufficient, the appellant must deliver additional collateral

                    “within one business day’s notice”. the appellant is

                    entitled to be given one business day’s notice to meet such an obligation

                    – this is implicit or inherent in cl 2.6. the expression

                    “business day” is not defined in the master agreement, but in the

                    service agreement, it is defined (under the section “bank statements”) as “a day other than saturday or

                    sunday on which banks and/or foreign exchange markets are open for business in

                    singapore and/or such other financial centres as [the respondent] may

                    choose”. clause 2.6 also provides that a failure to provide

                    additional security shall constitute an event of default under cl 5 of the

                    master agreement, on the occurrence of which the respondent may terminate any

                    one or more or all outstanding transactions at its sole discretion on the date

                    specified. an “event of default” in cl 5 refers to six

                    events, including “any event of default (as defined in the service

                    agreement)” as provided by cl 5.1(c). these cross-references

                    reinforce the conclusion that the master agreement and the service agreement

                    have to be read together with respect to each transaction.
26     the jc accepted the appellant’s argument

                    that the master agreement was applicable to all of the appellant’s

                    transactions, but he nevertheless held that this legal fact did not

                    “inexorably lead to the conclusion that the margin call made by the

                    [respondent] on 10 october 2008 was necessarily governed by

                    cl 2.6” (see the gd at [33]). he held that cl 2.6 of the master

                    agreement did not apply to the 10 october 2008 margin call because it was

                    not made pursuant to cl 2.6, but under the service agreement, and therefore

                    the appellant was not entitled to the one business day’s notice to meet

                    the margin call in the 10 october 2008 letter.
27     let us now examine the jc’s reasons,

                    which he set out at [34]–[39] of the gd as follows:
34    to understand the

                            purport of cl 2.6, a close examination of the clause is

                            essential:
(a)    it entitled the [respondent] to require the

                                [appellant] to deliver additional collateral if the [respondent]

                                should deem for any reason that the existing collateral was

                                insufficient.
(b)    the entitlement to require additional

                                collateral was to cover present or future obligations of the

                                [appellant] to the [respondent].
(c)    the one business day notice was for the

                                [appellant] to deliver additional collateral of a type and in an

                                amount as required by the [respondent].
(d)    failure to deliver the additional collateral

                                would constitute an event of default which would entitle the

                                [respondent] to terminate all of the [appellant’s]

                                transactions at its discretion without further notice.
35    on the face of

                            cl 2.6, the [respondent] was entitled to require the [appellant] to

                            deliver additional collateral even if the account was not in a margin

                            shortfall. this is clear from cl 2.6 which entitled the

                            [respondent] to require the [appellant] to bring in additional

                            collateral if the [respondent] should deem that the existing collateral

                            was insufficient for whatever reason. furthermore, the fact that the

                            additional collateral to be delivered is to satisfy future obligations

                            lends support to the construction that cl 2.6 is applicable even if

                            the account is not in margin shortfall. when cl 2.6 was dissected

                            in this manner, counsel for the [appellant] candidly accepted that

                            cl 2.6 would apply even when the account was not in margin

                            shortfall.
36    it follows that

                            when the [appellant’s] account fell into margin shortfall between

                            7 and 10 october 2008, there was no necessity for the [respondent]

                            to rely on cl 2.6. it is important to recognise that cl 2.6 is

                            not designed to give the [appellant] time before the [respondent] could

                            close the fx positions when the account is in margin shortfall. instead,

                            cl 2.6 confers a right on the [respondent] to require the

                            [appellant] to deliver additional collateral in such an amount if the

                            [respondent] so requires. the one business day notice only comes into

                            play if the [respondent] should decide to invoke cl 2.6 and not

                            otherwise. counsel for the [appellant] submitted that while cl 2.6

                            would apply even if the account was not in margin shortfall, it is

                            nevertheless wide enough to cover a situation when the account was in

                            such shortfall.
37    the

                            [respondent] submitted that it was contractually entitled to close out

                            the [appellant’s] fx positions under the advisory account at any

                            time and without notice. the [respondent] relied, inter alia, on the service agreement which provides as

                            follows:
credit banking and foreign exchange facilities
1.    we may (but need not) grant you credit banking

                                and foreign exchange facilities (‘facilities’) in

                                accordance with the terms of this service agreement and other terms

                                as may be agreed. all facilities are made available on an

                                uncommitted basis and subject to the provision of adequate

                                collateral. we may at any time and from time to time vary, suspend

                                or terminate any or all facilities without prior notice. in such

                                event, all your liabilities under the facilities shall become

                                immediately due and payable.
2.    any payment relating to the facilities not made

                                when due shall bear interest at such rate as we may reasonably

                                determine. such interest shall accrue and be calculated daily from

                                and including the due date until but excluding the actual payment

                                date. such interest may be capitalised by us monthly, and itself

                                bear interest.
3.    we have the right to determine the total value

                                of collateral we consider acceptable (‘collateral

                                value’).
4.    we may assign a lower collateral value to

                                collateral denominated in currencies different from the currencies

                                of our exposure to you to take into account our currency exchange

                                rate risk.
5.    the collateral value must not be less than 100%

                                of the total exposure [as defined below] at any time.

                            ...
6.    if at any time, the collateral value is less

                                than 100% of the total exposure, we may exercise our rights on

                                termination. we may (but need not) allow you time to restore the

                                collateral value to more than 100% of the total

                            exposure.
38    it is clear that

                            under the service agreement, the [appellant] was required to ensure that

                            the collateral value, which is the value of the [appellant’s]

                            collateral as determined by the [respondent], must not be less than 100%

                            of his total exposure and if it is less than the requisite 100%, the

                            [respondent] may terminate the transactions under the advisory account

                            without providing any time to the [appellant] to restore the shortfall.

                            this was not only undisputed by the [appellant] but was admitted to be

                            so in his aeic and under

                            cross-examination.
39    although

                            the [respondent’s] letter dated 10 october 2008 referred to

                            both the master agreement and the service agreement, it is clear from

                            the language of the letter that the [respondent’s] notice to the

                            [appellant] to clear the shortfall (not to deliver any specific

                            additional collateral) was made pursuant to the service

                            agreement:
(a)    it specifically referred to the requirement

                                for the [appellant] “to maintain the value of the collateral

                                pledged to us at not less than 100% of your total exposure to

                                us”. this mirrors the requirement under cl 5 (credit

                                banking and foreign exchange facilities) of the service

                                agreement.
(b)    clause 2.6 would apply in a situation

                                when the [respondent] invokes the right to direct the [appellant] to

                                deliver additional collateral of a type acceptable and in an amount

                                required by the [respondent]. not only was cl 2.6 not referred

                                to, the letter did not specify any amount which the [appellant] was

                                required to deliver. it merely required the [appellant] to clear the

                                shortfall by either providing additional collateral or reducing his

                                total exposure to the [respondent].
28     to summarise the reasoning in the above

                    passages, the jc essentially took the position that cl 2.6 was “not

                    designed to give the [appellant] time before the [respondent] could close the fx

                    contracts when the account [was] in margin shortfall” (see the gd at

                    [36]). rather, “cl 2.6 [conferred] a right on the [respondent] to

                    require the [appellant] to deliver additional collateral in such an amount if

                    the [respondent] so [required]” (see the gd at [36]). the one business

                    day’s notice only applied where the respondent decided to invoke

                    cl 2.6. in his view, the 10 october 2008 letter was a request to clear

                    the shortfall under the service agreement because it mirrored the language of

                    the service agreement in referring to maintaining not less than 100% of the

                    appellant’s total exposure. accordingly, cl 2.6 of the master

                    agreement did not come into play. on the other hand, cl 6 of the

                        “credit, banking and foreign exchange

                        facilities” section in the service agreement provides that

                    if at any time, the “collateral value is less than 100% of the total

                    exposure, [the respondent] may exercise [its] rights on termination” [emphasis added].
29     with respect, we again are unable to agree

                    with the jc’s approach in interpreting the 10 october 2008 letter as

                    having been given under the service agreement and not the master agreement for

                    the following reasons:
(a)     first, as both the master agreement

                        and the service agreement apply to each transaction (cl 2.5 of the

                        master agreement provides for it expressly), cl 2.6 of the master

                        agreement would apply to the 10 october 2008 letter unless it has been

                        excluded by the service agreement. there is nothing in the service agreement

                        which excludes the operation of cl 2.6 of the master

                    agreement.
(b)     second,

                        the service agreement does not expressly

                        authorise the respondent to terminate the appellant’s account or to

                        close out his fx positions without giving any

                            notice to the appellant, even in a situation where

                        “the collateral value is less than 100% of the total

                        exposure”. the service agreement provides (under the

                            “remedies” section) that it

                        is only on the occurrence of an event of default that the respondent

                        may:
1. terminate this service agreement whereupon all [the

                            appellant’s] liabilities will become immediately due and

                            payable
2. terminate early and close out ... all outstanding contracts
...
clause 1 (under the “security” section) provides that “[the

                        respondent] may require [the appellant] to provide security for [the

                        appellant’s] liabilities (sometimes at very short notice in view of

                        market movements)”. clause 9 (under the “events of default” section) provides that it

                        is an event of default if there is any “[f]ailure to provide any

                        additional collateral when [the respondent] require[s]”. it is

                        implicit or inherent in this provision that prior notice must first be given

                        to the appellant to provide additional collateral, as otherwise no failure

                        to provide security could arise. this raised the question of how much notice

                        is required to invoke the right of termination. there are only two

                        possibilities. first, if cl 2.6 of the master agreement applies, a

                        failure to comply with a one business day’s notice is sufficient to

                        cause an event of default. if cl 2.6 of the master agreement does not

                        apply, then cl 9 (of the service agreement) would require, according to

                        established principles of interpretation, reasonable notice. this approach

                        is consistent with the structure of the master agreement read with the

                        service agreement with respect to each transaction they apply to. it also

                        accords with commercial sense, as it would be surprising if, in the business

                        of wealth management, banks could give themselves the right to close their

                        clients’ accounts without giving any notice at all.
(c)     third, the respondent served the

                        10 october 2008 letter on the basis that both the master agreement and

                        the service agreement applied to the margin call because it referred to them

                        expressly.the fact that no reference was made specifically to cl 2.6 of

                        the master agreement was neither here nor there: it did not make cl 2.6

                        any the less applicable, as there was no need to mention the clause itself.

                        if the respondent intended to make the margin call under the service

                        agreement only, it would not have referred to the master agreement. the

                        respondent should know under which agreement it was invoking its rights to

                        make the margin call.
(d)     fourth, the 10 october 2008 letter expressly required the

                        appellant to “take immediate steps to restore the shortfall in the

                        collateral value by 5pm singapore time

                        today”, and to do so by providing “additional security to [the respondent] or [by reducing] [his]

                            total exposure” [emphasis added]. the letter expressly

                        requested additional collateral in terms of the ambit of cl 2.6. no

                        doubt, the service agreement also refers to the reduction of his total

                        exposure. but there is no difference in substance between reducing the

                        shortfall and providing additional security to reduce the shortfall –

                        one is only the means to achieve the other. in the present case, cl 6

                        of the “credit, banking and foreign exchange

                            facilities” section (reproduced at [27] above) does not refer to a

                        “shortfall” but to the restoration of “the collateral

                        value to more than 100% of the total exposure”, and this can only be

                        done by providing additional collateral. we see no inconsistency between

                        cl 2.6 of the master agreement and any of the provisions of the service

                        agreement in this regard.
(e)     finally, if there is any doubt as to whether cl 2.6

                        of the master agreement was applicable to the 10 october 2008 letter,

                        there is no reason why the court should not apply the contra proferentum rule of construction for the benefit of

                        the appellant. the respondent cannot be allowed to rely on any ambiguity in

                        its own documentation to its own advantage to deny the appellant any rights

                        at all in this respect. this rule of construction applies not only to the

                        interpretation of contractual terms within a single document but also across

                        two or more documents if they are both connected with the transaction in

                        question, as in the present case.
30     for these reasons, we are of the view that

                    cl 2.6 applied to the 10 october 2008 letter, and under that clause,

                    the appellant was entitled to one business day’s notice to restore the

                    state of his account to the satisfaction of the respondent, either by providing

                    additional collateral or by reducing his total exposure. accordingly, we find

                    that the respondent was in breach of its obligations to the appellant in closing

                    out all his fx positions on 10 october 2008.
31     we should add, just to put the

                    appellant’s conduct in its proper perspective, that the evidence shows

                    that the appellant was trying very hard to comply with the terms of the

                    10 october 2008 letter by seeking to stagger the closing out of his fx

                    positions. he had four conversations with ms chin after receiving the said

                    letter and had wanted ms chin to reduce his total exposure by closing out

                    some of his fx positions first and the rest on the following monday,

                    13 october 2008. however, ms chin was not authorised to agree to carry

                    out the appellant’s suggestions as the respondent had already made up its

                    mind to close out all of his fx positions on that day because of the

                    deteriorating situation in the foreign exchange market. for example, the

                    telephone conversation recorded at 7.19pm is as follows:[note: 1]

david:

then now if we (do) it this way, if --- if

                                            er, er, close off, close off 20

                                                million first, based on the present rate

                                            come and close off 20

                                                million, the rest let me place then ---

                                            that is you trust me for one week --- one week --- you

                                            trust me for one friday lor, or it will be next --- next

                                            monday then start to close off everything

                                        lor.

cynthia:

if ---

david:

you speak to the big boss

                                        lah.

cynthia:

no, if under margin

                                                call status ---

david:

yes.

cynthia:

--- then to discuss in this way

                                            won’t be a problem because normally, like the

                                            other day i told you because (when) it reaches margin call, that is have

                                                margin call but

                                            ---

david:

mm.

cynthia:

--- but still have that one called

                                                positive equity

                                            ---

david:

yes.

cynthia:

--- still can

                                    discuss.

david:

ah.

cynthia:

but now it’s already negative

                                    equity.

[emphasis in original]

what was the legal effect of the

                    respondent’s promise of the grace period?

32     as we have stated earlier, the jc found that

                    mr linke had promised the appellant, at a meeting between them sometime in

                    july 2008, that the appellant would have the grace period to respond to any

                    margin call, but he concluded that, in law, the promise did not operate as an

                    estoppel against the respondent insisting on its strict contractual rights as

                    the appellant had not relied on the promise to his detriment such as to make it

                    inequitable for the respondent to resile from that promise. the respondent has

                    not appealed against the factual finding of the existence of the promise, but

                    the appellant has appealed against the legal finding that there was no

                    promissory estoppel. therefore, the issue before us is whether the jc’s

                    decision on this issue is correct in law.
33     in coming to this finding, the jc examined the

                    divergent case law on the subject and concluded that the main reason for this

                    state of affairs was that the courts had given different meanings to the

                    requirement of detrimental reliance. he referred to spencer bower, the law relating to estoppel by representation (piers

                    feltham et al eds) (lexisnexis uk, 4th ed, 2004)

                        (“bower”) at p 481 where

                    detriment was described to mean: (a) incurring expenditure of money and

                    time; (b) incurring a liability; (c) change of position; and

                    (d) deprivation of a benefit (see [55]–[56] of the gd). at [57] of

                    the gd, the jc stated the following overarching principle of promissory estoppel

                    which he was able to distil from the divergent case law and academic

                    opinions:
in my view, it will not be helpful to attach labels to

                        properly characterise “detriment”. the overarching principle

                        in each of these categories is that the doctrine has consistently been held

                        to apply in circumstances when it was inequitable either in the narrow or

                        broader sense of “detriment” for the promisor to resile from

                        his promise and to enforce his strict legal rights. this was after all the

                        foundation of the doctrine as developed in [thomas hughes

                            v the directors of the metropolitan railway co (1877)

                        2 app cas 439] (per lord cairns at

                        448):
[i]f parties who have entered into definite and distinct terms

                            involving certain legal results - certain penalties or legal forfeiture

                            - afterwards by their own act or with their own consent enter upon a

                            course of negotiation which has the effect of leading one of the parties

                            to suppose that the strict rights arising under the contract will not be

                            enforced, or will be kept in suspense, or held in abeyance, the person who otherwise might have enforced those rights

                                will not be allowed to enforce them where it would be inequitable

                                having regard to the dealings which have thus taken place between

                                the parties.
[emphasis in original]
34     applying the overarching principle he

                    identified, the jc held that the appellant had failed to prove that he had

                    suffered any detriment in relying on the respondent’s promise of the grace

                    period so as to make it inequitable for the respondent to resile from its

                    promise. he held that the appellant’s remittance of additional funds to

                    the respondent to secure his fx contracts was not detrimental to him, as he had

                    not alleged that he had suffered any financial loss or other detriment in

                    transferring the additional funds (see the gd at [65]). he also held that the

                    appellant had not suffered any detriment in having been denied the grace period

                    as he had not been willing and able to deliver additional collateral, and that

                    would have been the case even if 72 hours had been given to him to meet the

                    margin call. the jc’s reasons are set out at [64]–[67] of the gd as

                    follows:
64    the inquiry is not

                            simply whether the [appellant] had relied on the promise but whether the

                            reliance had rendered it inequitable for the [respondent] to go back on

                            its promise and to enforce its strict legal rights under the service

                            agreement.
65    for promissory

                            estoppel, the reliance must be linked to the “detriment”.

                            in the present case, i agree with the [respondent]'s submission that

                            there is an obvious disconnect between the pleaded reliance and the

                            alleged detriment. the [appellant] alleged that he remitted additional

                            funds to the [respondent] some two to three months after the promise.

                            however, the [appellant] is not alleging that he suffered detriment in

                            transferring the additional funds. it was for the [appellant] to decide

                            how and what he wished to do with his deposits including the additional

                            funds which were remitted in september 2008. the [appellant] instead

                            alleged that he suffered detriment in that he was denied more time to

                            restore the margin shortfall.
66    it is not the [appellant]'s case that if the [respondent] had not

                            resiled from its promise, he would have been ready, willing and able to

                            deliver additional collateral to clear the shortfall within the 48-hour

                            grace period. if that had been the [appellant]'s case, at least there

                            would be a causal link and a legal platform to mount a case on

                            promissory estoppel. however, the [appellant] did not pursue his case in

                            this manner because he knew it was against the weight of the

                            evidence.
67    how could the

                            [appellant] allege that it was inequitable for the [respondent] to

                            enforce its rights under the service agreement (which has the effect of

                            withdrawing the promise of the 48-hour grace period) given his own

                            evidence that he was unwilling and/or unable to do so even if the grace

                            period was extended to 72 hours up to 14 october 2008. the truth is

                            the [appellant] was given time to respond. his response was clear and

                            unequivocal:

q:
your response is very clear. you don't have money;

                                    right?

a:yes.

q:
even if you do have money, you are not going to put it

                                    in because every account is like an independent ship;

                                    correct?

a:yes.
[emphasis in original]
35     with respect, we are unable to agree with the

                    jc’s decision and his reasoning as set out in these passages. in our view,

                    the jc took an overly narrow view of detrimental reliance in the present context

                    of promises made by bank officers when soliciting private banking clients. the

                    appellant was the respondent’s “private banking” client, a

                    description that signifies the importance of the appellant to the respondent as

                    a desirable source of its business (and revenue). the appellant’s business

                    was not insignificant for an individual in the wealth management industry in

                    singapore. the respondent had given him a credit line of usd 200 million to

                    enable him to engage in the carry trade. the buying and selling of currencies is

                    a profitable business. further, according to the appellant, he had traded more

                    than 10 currency options through the respondent,[note: 2] and the respondent would

                    have earned considerable fees for executing them. the respondent would also have

                    benefitted considerably from the large cash deposits which the appellant had

                    placed with the respondent as security for his transactions. his total exposure

                    on 10 october 2008 was equivalent to nzd 88 million.[note: 3] in

                    our view, the respondent’s word should be its bond in the context of this

                    case.
36     it is trite that under a system of floating

                    currencies, exchange rates are unstable as they are determined by many factors,

                    and therefore the fx market can become very volatile at times. for this reason,

                    the more time given to the customer to close out any outstanding fx positions

                    the better for him, and conversely, the worse it might be for the respondent. a

                    48-hour grace period (which could be stretched to mean two business days) for

                    such purposes is thus a very valuable right or privilege to a sophisticated

                    customer like the appellant, as it gives him more time to decide what to do

                    – to take his losses immediately, to average down his investment by buying

                    more fx contracts, or as in the present case, to maintain his fx positions until

                    the next business day.
37     in the present case, the appellant wanted to

                    partially close out his fx contracts (ie, nzd 20

                    million on 10 october 2008 and the balance of nzd 68 million on

                    13 october 2008) in order to reduce his total exposure as requested by the

                    respondent. he explained that, from his own experience in fx trading, the

                    foreign exchange market was more likely than not to move in his favour because

                    the next business day would be after the conclusion of the g7 meeting scheduled

                    for that weekend. it would seem that the respondent was fearful that the

                    appellant’s fx positions would deteriorate further, thus increasing his

                    exposure to the respondent. hence, the respondent was determined to close out

                    all his fx positions on 10 october 2008 after the 5pm deadline, which it

                    did. as it turned out, the appellant’s reading of the fx market after the

                    g7 meeting was correct – the market did move in favour of the appellant on

                    13 october 2008 – in contrast to the apparent panic exhibited by the

                    respondent.
38     the jc held that the appellant’s

                    transfer of funds from other banks to the respondent as security did not

                    constitute a “detriment” to him in the context of promissory

                    estoppel. however, the appellant did more than that. in our view, there was

                    sufficient detrimental reliance by the appellant as he changed his position:

                    (a) by obtaining a very substantial credit line from the respondent to give

                    business to the respondent; and (b) by providing collateral (which he had

                    to transfer from his accounts with other banks) to the benefit of the

                    respondent. without the benefit of the grace period to allow him to decide on

                    the best course of action if and when a margin call is made, he might not have

                    exposed himself to such large fx positions. in the present case, the respondent

                    made the wrong move in closing out the appellant’s fx positions

                    prematurely and against his wishes, and caused a substantial loss exceeding usd

                    1 million in his net fx positions, which the respondent has now claimed from

                    him. in our view, there was sufficient detrimental reliance by the appellant

                    that made it inequitable for the respondent to resile from its promise to honour

                    the grace period.
39     we are also unable to agree with the

                    jc’s view that because the appellant was unwilling and/or unable to

                    provide additional collateral for the shortfall, even if the grace period had

                    been extended to 72 hours (ie, up to

                    14 october 2008), it was not inequitable for the respondent to enforce its

                    strict rights under the master agreement and the service agreement (assuming

                    that cl 2.6 was not applicable). in our view, the appellant’s refusal

                    in this respect would not affect his legal rights. if he was entitled to the

                    grace period to respond to the 10 october 2008 letter, he was under no

                    obligation to give the commitment that ms chin required. furthermore, the

                    appellant had also explained why he could not have fulfilled his commitment,

                    even if he had the funds, as at least two business days’ notice was

                    required to transfer such funds. indeed, in retrospect, the respondent’s

                    insistence on a commitment by the appellant made little practical or commercial

                    sense. the appellant could have easily given a commitment without having any

                    intention of honouring it in the knowledge that he would not be able to do so

                    since by 13 october 2008, as explained by him (see [42] below), he could only effect transfer of funds from another

                    bank (assuming he had such funds) on two business days’ notice. thus, the

                    commitment served no purpose whatever because the respondent would not have been

                    better off even if the appellant had given the commitment. the respondent would

                    not have gained anything from it. we do not see why the appellant’s

                    candour and honesty in this regard should prejudice his right to insist on the

                    grace period in order to provide additional collateral or to reduce his total

                    exposure. in fact, as we have stated earlier, the appellant did the only thing

                    that was feasible before the close of 10 october 2008 (ie, to reduce his total exposure

                    by closing out partially his fx positions, but not to crystallise his total exposure by closing out all his fx

                    positions on that day). indeed, for this reason, it is arguable that the

                    appellant had complied with the terms of the 10 october 2008 letter, but

                    the respondent was in breach of it by rejecting a partial closing out of his fx

                    positions to reduce his total exposure. the respondent, in requesting additional

                    security by 5pm that day, was imposing a requirement that could not be fulfilled

                    in practical terms, and it had to resort to the excuse of a commitment to

                    crystallise the appellant’s total exposure instead of reducing it. as this

                    point was not argued, we do not need to rule on it. nevertheless, we do find the

                    respondent’s conduct in this case rather surprising, given its own

                    acknowledgement that it had given the grace period to the

                appellant.
40     furthermore, in our view, even if it is

                    arguable that there was no detrimental reliance on the facts on this case, we

                    would hold that the appellant is entitled to succeed in this appeal on the

                    broader principle set out at para v.5.17 of bower,

                    where it is stated:[note: 4]
however, even adopting such a broad definition of detriment, an exception

                        may be suggested to the rule that detriment is required. it is strongly

                        arguable that a representor may be estopped from denying a representation

                        because it is inequitable for the representor to resile from it, although

                        the representee has suffered no detriment, where the representor has

                        obtained an advantage by the reliance of the

                        representee on the representation, as has been held in relation to

                        constructive trusts, by reasoning equally applicable to the doctrine of

                        estoppel. [emphasis in original]
the principle is that where the promisor has obtained an advantage

                    from giving a promise to the promisee, he should not be allowed to resile from

                    his promise on the basis of promissory estoppel. we are of the view that this

                    principle is particularly relevant in the context of private banking where if

                    the banks and financial intermediaries engaged in the business of wealth

                    management cannot be trusted with their words, they should not be allowed to be

                    in this business. the courts should not allow a bank to claim that “my

                    word is not my bond”, and should be sufficiently astute to find inequity,

                    and where it is possible to do so within legal limits, to hold the promisor to

                    his word in a case, such as the present, where the respondent has obtained an

                    advantage from his promise at the expense of the promisee. in the circumstances,

                    we find that the respondent was estopped from making the margin call in the

                    terms of the 10 october 2008 letter.
did the appellant accept that the respondent was entitled to close

                out his fx positions on 10 october 2008?
41     the jc also held that the grace period could

                    not prevent the respondent from closing out the appellant’s fx positions

                    as the appellant had accepted the respondent’s right to do so. this

                    finding is set out at [68]–[69] of the gd as follows:
68    the [appellant] was

                            aware and accepted that the [respondent] was indeed entitled to close

                            his fx positions on 10 october 2008:

q:
otherwise, if the bank wants to lose off, then go

                                    ahead?


a:
yes.

q:
close off everything, then go ahead;

                                right?


a:
yeah, that's what i told them.

                            yeah.
[emphasis in original]
69    having accepted that the [respondent] was entitled

                            to close his fx positions on 10 october 2008 and the positions were

                            in fact closed on 10 october 2008, it would in fact be unfair for

                            the [appellant] to now raise promissory estoppel to challenge the

                            validity of the margin call transactions. this is all the more so on the

                            facts of this case since it is the [appellant]'s own evidence that the

                            right to close out had accrued on 7 october 2008 and that the

                            [respondent] should have done so some three days earlier. accordingly on

                            the evidence before me, i find that it was not inequitable for the

                            [appellant] to rely on the terms of the service agreement to close out

                            the [appellant]'s fx positions on 10 october 2008.
42     with respect, we do not think that the

                    appellant’s answers quoted in this passage were an acceptance that the

                    respondent was entitled to close his fx positions without giving him the grace

                    period. the appellant’s answers came at the end of a long

                    cross-examination in which he expressed the opposite view on many occasions. the

                    relevant portions of the questions and answers start at record of appeal

                    (“roa”), vol iii (part c) at pp 1020–1023 as

                    follows:
q:then you accept

                            the situation and you say that the bank -- if you want to close off,

                            there is nothing you can do;

                            correct?
a:yes, because money

                            and deposits were with the

                            bank.
q:right. so you accept

                            that the bank is entitled to close off your positions immediately;

                            right?
a:
disagree. it is just because deposit with the bank. they have got

                                the money in physical possession of my money and

                            deposits.
q:mr lam,

                            you are an experienced investor; right? correct? you have experienced

                            margin call situations before;

                            correct?
a:yeah.
q:you

                            are in the fourth day in a row of account shortfall;

                        correct?
a:yes.
q:that

                            is why you say that you were fully aware that the bank was entitled to

                            close you out in such

                            situations?
a:
no, i only received the formal notice on 10 october, and i

                                will say the notice is defective, because the notice did not remind

                                me of my right under the base document to wait until the expiration

                                of one business day, so the notice was defective per se. it did not

                                remind me of my legal right under the

                        documents.
q:mr lam,

                            even if you start counting on 10 october, i put it to you that it

                            would not have made a difference because you told the bank, even if you

                            wait for one business day or wait for 48 hours until monday

                            --
a:yes.
q:--

                            i still cannot remit any money. do you agree or

                            disagree?
a:because i told you

                            earlier --
q:do you agree or

                            disagree first, then explain?
a:yeah, agree. yeah.
q:do you

                            want to explain?
a:i told you

                            earlier, that would at least take two business days to remit funds in

                            foreign currency from one bank to another. at that time -- at that

                            juncture, already past 5 o’clock in the afternoon, so it would

                            take at least three work -- business days from that time, because

                            already 5 o’clock pm. so it would take two plus one, three

                            business days to remit funds into deutsche bank at that

                        time.
q:so your point is the bank

                            should just wait for you to -- wait, even though you haven’t given

                            a commitment, just wait and see whether or not you were actually going

                            to remit funds on tuesday or

                            wednesday?
a:i had to wait the

                            48-hour -- so it will be --
q:you did not tell the bank within 48 hours you would put in money;

                            correct?
a:that’s correct,

                            yeah.
q:thank

                            you.
a:but it was my

                            right.
q:look at page 526. this

                            is what you say at the top:
“if you all trust me enough, then i close off 20 million

                            kiwi then the balance, whatever amount, then you let me place the

                            positions like that, otherwise if you all want to

                                close off, then close off, but the outcome is really very bad

                                lah.”
right?
a:yes.
q:so what you are saying is that, look, please trust

                            me. please close off nzd 20 million only, then the balance --

                            the balance is about 68 million; right?
a:yes.
q:the balance, let me place my three limit

                            orders?
a:yes.
q:that’s what you are saying to the bank;

                            right?
a:yeah.
q:otherwise, if the bank wants to close off, then go

                            ahead?
a:yes.
q:close off everything, then go ahead;

                        right?
a:yeah, that’s what i told them.

                        yeah.
[emphasis added]
43     in our view, the appellant’s answer

                    (italicised in the extract above at [42])

                    makes it very clear that his other answers were not intended to suggest that he

                    accepted that the respondent had the legal right to close out all of his fx

                    positions without any notice. the appellant’s defence all along had been

                    that first, he was entitled to be given one business day’s notice to

                    provide additional collateral; and secondly, he had, in any case, been promised

                    48 hours to respond to any margin call (whether it arose out of a negative

                    equity position or a shortfall in his collateral position in relation to his

                    total exposure). in saying that the respondent could close his account, the

                    appellant was acknowledging a physical fact – that he could not prevent

                    the respondent from closing out his fx positions and offsetting his security

                    deposits since it had custody and control of his funds. but this was a far cry

                    from saying that he accepted that the respondent had the legal right to do so.

                    this can be seen in the questions and answers in the earlier stage of his

                    cross-examination which are reproduced below:

roa, vol iii (part c), at p 982

q:do you not say in your affidavit, mr lam, that

                            on 7 october 2008 the bank could have closed you out?
a:yes.
q:right.
a:but subject, of course, to the terms of the agreed

                            -- of the documents.
q:so on 10 october 2008, when you received this

                            letter --
a:yes.
q:-- right at ab 186 --
a:yes.
q:-- you must have realised and understood the case

                            to be that the bank can close you out immediately, now?
a:no. they should have wait until the required one

                            business day or 48-hours’ grace period, as the case may

                        be.

roa, vol iii (part c), at pp 994 to

                            996

q:what you are saying, mr lam, is that you

                            realised that the bank has a right to close off so you are telling the

                            bank, i will not remit money. i will leave it as it is. if you want to

                            close off, then just close off accordingly; right?
a:no. i did not know whether the bank has the right

                            to close off but i do feel that the bank has the desire to do

                        so.
q:you see, mr lam, you are telling the bank, if

                            you want to close off, then close off, so be it; correct?
a:yes.
q:you never said to cynthia chin, no, you cannot

                            close off. you must give me 48-hours’ notice, then you can close

                            off; right?
a:no, i did mention the 48 hours later.
q:yes, i will come to that later, but at this stage

                            you never [t]old cynthia chin, no, you cannot close off. you must give

                            me 48-hours’ notice, sit there and wait -- even though

                            you’re not going to remit any money -- and then close off. you

                            never said that; right?
a:at that time, yes.
q:and the reason why you did not say that,

                            mr lam, is because you knew that the bank had every right to

                            liquidate your positions immediately and close you off;

                        correct?
a:disagree.
q:that’s why you are saying there is nothing

                            you can do; correct? mr lam?
a:disagree.
q:you see, then you asked the bank, can you close off

                            half my positions only; right?
a:yes.
q:you asked the bank, can it be done;

                        right?
a:yes, correct.
q:so what you are saying is, i know you can close off

                            everything now but do me a favour, close off only half. can you agree to

                            that? that’s what you are telling the bank, correct?
a:i suggested that the bank should close

                        half.
q:yes. that is because you knew that the bank has the

                            right to close off everything, but you are suggesting to the bank, why

                            don’t you consider just closing off half; right?
a:disagree.

roa, vol iii (part c), at p 1005

q:even if you do have money, you are not going to put

                            it in because every account is like an independent ship;

                        correct?
a:yes.
q:so basically your position is that you expect the

                            bank to continue being exposed; right?
a:no. i expect the bank to wait until the lapse of

                            the 48-hours’ grace period.
q:mr lam, you already told the bank, even if you

                            wait till 48 hours, i’m not going to give you any money;

                            correct?
a:but the exchange --
q:is that’s right?
a:-- rate -- the exchange rates could be improved

                            substantially on monday.
q:mr lam, similarly, the exchange rates could

                            move against you even worse; right?
a:no. on balance of probabilities, whenever there is

                            g7, there is a possible reverse of the exchange rate; that is, both

                            aussie and kiwi would be in my favour, but the yen will drop as well.

                            that is basically the experience of past g7 meetings or similar

                            meetings, yeah.

roa, vol iii (part c), at pp 1008 to 1009 and

                            p 1011

q:unless you gave a

                            commitment that you would remit money to cover the negative equity;

                            correct?
a:yes.
q:this

                            is when you say:
“isn’t it at that time you all said i have

                            48 hours of --
cynthia:    yes.
david:  -- grace period mah?
cynthia:    yes.
david:  then okay, that means to say you give

                                    me 48 hours for me to reply, correct?”
a:yes.
q:this is what cynthia

                            says:

“yes. what you say is correct,

                                48 hours is (for) margin call. it’s (for) margin call.

                                that means huh, but now it is close out already, so actually i -- if

                                credit wants to do anything, if they don’t want to consider

                                the relationship, they can straightaway close out, just like the

                                last time boc didn’t inform you and (they) just close out

                                straightaway.

david:  yes.”
correct?
a:yes.
q:so you see, cynthia chin told you, mr lam,

                            that this 48-hours’ grace period is for margin call. you had

                            already been in a margin call situation since 7 october

                            2008?
a:disagree.
q:mr lam, on 7 october 2008, you’ve

                            agreed with me, that you had an account shortfall and you also stated in

                            your affidavit of evidence-in-chief that the bank can close you out on

                            7 october 2008; right?
a:as i say, the bank must serve me a formal notice.

                            they didn’t.
q:your account shortfall just got worse every day;

                            right?
a:no. on 13 october it reversed, so not every

                            day.
q:from 7 to 9 to 10 october, it got worse every

                            day; correct?
a:on those days, yes.
q:because it got worse every day, now coming on

                            10 october –-
a:up to that -- yeah. not every day. as i said,

                            reversed on 13 october.
q:so that’s for you to prove; all right,

                            mr lam. so on 10 october, the bank was now going to close you

                            out, right, unless you could give a commitment that you would remit

                            money; right?
a:yeah.
q:so this was all explained to you by cynthia, about

                            this 48-hours’ notice, that it applies to a margin call situation,

                            but now this is a situation where the bank is really going to close you

                            out; right?
a:only after the 48 hours –-
q:i’m saying, mr lam, this is what cynthia

                            explained to you; correct? she explained to you 48 hours is for

                            margin call. you are now in a situation where they can close you out

                            because you are in negative equity; correct?
a:that’s what she told me. i might or might not

                            agree, but at that juncture, i did not want to argue with

                        her.
[emphasis added]
44     in our view, these passages show beyond any

                    doubt that the appellant was holding the respondent to the promise of the grace

                    period to respond to the margin call. ms chin’s statement that the 48

                    hours were for margin calls “but now [the

                        appellant’s account] is close out already” was

                    either incoherent or an acknowledgement that it was too late to give the

                    appellant 48 hours to meet the margin call.
45     for the above reasons, we find that the

                    jc’s conclusion that the appellant had accepted that the respondent had

                    the legal right to close out his fx positions on 10 october 2008 is not

                    supported by the evidence.
46     finally, in addition to the defence of

                    promissory estoppel, there was, in our view, another ground on which the

                    appellant would have succeeded in his claim against the respondent if he had

                    pleaded it. in our view, the respondent’s promise of the grace period

                    constituted a variation of cl 2.6 of the master agreement (see [23] above) as well as cll 5 and 6 under the

                    section “credit, banking and foreign exchange

                        facilities” of the service agreement (see [27] above), with respect to each transaction of

                    the appellant. the law requires consideration to vary the terms of a contract.

                    the appellant provided consideration when he agreed to do, and did, business

                    with the respondent on those terms – by entering into the relevant fx

                    contracts, which gave both a factual and legal benefit to the respondent (see

                        ong chay tong & sons (pte) ltd v ong hoo

                        eng [2009] 1 slr(r) 305 and gay

                        choon ing v loh sze ti terence peter and another appeal [2009]

                    2 slr(r) 332). this made the respondent’s promise binding and

                    had the effect of varying the relevant terms of the agreements relating to

                    margin calls.
47     in reliance on the respondent’s promise

                    of the grace period, the appellant had also transferred very substantial

                    deposits to the advisory account to secure the credit facilities he obtained

                    from the respondent to enter into the very substantial fx contracts. at

                        [6] of the gd, the jc found as

                    follows:
by 11 september 2008, the [appellant] had remitted a total of new

                        zealand dollars (“nzd”) 120,101,937.38 and usd3,040,000

                        to his advisory account with the [respondent]. a total of japanese yen

                        ("jpy") 4,168,423,696 and swiss francs

                        (“chf”) 36,027,548.42 in loans were transferred from the

                        [appellant’s] accounts with overseas chinese banking corporation and

                        bnp paribas private bank respectively to the [respondent].
the jc held that the transfer of the additional funds did not

                    constitute a detriment for the purpose of promissory estoppel (it was also not

                    pleaded as such). however, this is a question of law, and in our view, the

                    transfer of the funds constituted only one element in the appellant’s

                    decision to become or remain as a private banking client of the respondent and

                    to do business with it on the basis of the grace period to meet any margin call.

                    the respondent’s promise of the grace period to the appellant was an

                    inducement to him to engage in fx business. the appellant accepted the promise

                    by transferring the funds to provide the requisite security for such trades. in

                    our view, this would be sufficient consideration to make the grace period a

                    contractual term of every fx transaction entered into by the appellant, and to

                    that extent, would constitute a valid variation of the relevant terms of the

                    master agreement and the service agreement in relation to the time required to

                    make a margin call when it is necessary for the respondent to do so. for these

                    reasons, the appellant’s appeal would also have succeeded on this

                    ground.
summary of findings
48     to summarise our findings:
(a)     the 7 and 8 october 2008

                        letters were not margin calls;
(b)     the 10 october 2008 letter was a margin call but it

                        was given in breach of cl 2.6 of the master agreement (which was part

                        of the service agreement with respect to every transaction of the appellant)

                        in that the respondent failed to give one business day’s notice to the

                        appellant to provide additional collateral to meet the shortfall in his

                        advisory account;
(c)     in any event, promissory estoppel was applicable to the

                        respondent’s promise of the grace period, and in consequence, the

                        respondent was estopped from resiling on its promise to allow the appellant

                        the grace period to respond to the 10 october 2008 letter;

                    and
(d)     in obiter, the promise of the grace period constituted

                        a binding undertaking by the respondent to give the appellant 48 hours to

                        meet any margin call, which varied the terms of the master agreement and the

                        service agreement accordingly.
conclusion
49     for the above reasons, we allow the

                    appellant’s appeal with costs here and below, with the usual consequential

                    orders. the appellant is entitled to damages, if any, to be assessed by the

                    registrar on the basis that the respondent was only entitled to close out his fx

                    positions on 13 october 2008 at the earliest.
[note: 1]record of appeal (“roa”), vol iii (part b), at

                                p 800-801.[note: 2]roa, vol iii

                                (part c), p 1033.[note: 3]roa, vol iii (part c), p 1044.[note: 4]appellant’s case, at para

                                74.copyright © government of singapore.