the supreme court unanimously allows the appeal by mrs szepietowski. lord neuberger, with whom lord sumption and lord reed agree, holds that the 2009 charge did not create, or acknowledge the existence of, any debt from mrs szepietowski, or anyone else, to soca, save that under its terms, she was bound to pay soca an amount of up to 1.24m out of such sum if any, as remained from the proceeds of sale of claygate after any prior claim had been met [40-43]. as a matter of principle, marshalling is not available to a second mortgagee where the common property does not secure a debt due from the mortgagor, but is merely available as security for whatever amount the second mortgagee can extract from that property. in such a case, there is nothing from which the right to marshal against the other property can arise [46-50]. not least because marshalling is an equitable remedy, whether it is available in any particular case may depend on the circumstances. however, where there is no surviving debt due from the mortgagor to the second mortgagee after the sale and distribution of proceeds of sale of the common property, in the absence of express words which permit or envisage marshalling, it is hard to conceive how marshalling would be available [56-58]. if, contrary to this conclusion, marshalling is in principle available to a second mortgagee where there is no underlying debt, mrs szepietowskis appeal would still have been allowed. where facts arise which potentially give rise to the right to marshal, the correct approach is to ask whether, in the perception of an objective reasonable bystander at the date of the grant of the second mortgage, taking into account (i) the terms of the second mortgage, (ii) any contract or other arrangement which gave rise to it, (iii) what passed between the parties prior to its execution, and (iv) all the admissible surrounding facts, it is reasonable to conclude that the second mortgagee was nonetheless not intended to be able to marshal [60-62]. the statutory background to, and the terms of, the 2009 charge and of the settlement deed, coupled with all the surrounding circumstances demonstrate that the parties did not intend soca to have the right to marshal [64-72]. the fact that ashford house was mrs szepietowskis home is one of the relevant background facts for that purpose, but it was insufficient on its own to prevent a right to marshal if such a right otherwise existed. where the requirements of the right to marshal are otherwise present, it would require a contractually enforceable obligation, or something close thereto, on the first mortgagee to enforce against the common property in priority to the other property, for the second mortgagee to lose the right to marshal [73-77]. lord carnwath and lord hughes would allow the appeal on the narrower basis, namely that, read against the statutory background provided by the 2002 act, and the fact that the 2009 charge excluded any personal liability on the part of mrs szepietowski, that charge impliedly excluded recourse to any source for payment other than those identified, and in particular excluded the right to marshal.