this is an application by the attorney general for northern ireland under paragraph 34 of schedule 10 to the northern ireland act 1998 (the 1998 act). paragraph 34 provides that the attorney general may refer to the supreme court any devolution issue which is not the subject of proceedings. a devolution issue includes a question whether a purported exercise of a function by a northern ireland department is or would be invalid by reason of s. 24 of the 1998 act. s. 24(1)(a) provides that a department of northern ireland has no power to make, confirm or approve any subordinate legislation, or to do any act, so far as the legislation or act is incompatible with any of the rights guaranteed by the european convention on human rights (the echr). by the welfare reform (northern ireland) order 2015 (commencement no. 8 and transitional and transitory provisions) order 2017, the secretary of state commenced a number of universal credit provisions for claims on or after 27 september 2017 where the claimant resides in an area known as no. 1 relevant districts. although it is for the secretary of state to appoint the dates for commencement, he does so by a legislative technique which requires action by the northern ireland department for communities (part of the northern ireland executive). the 2017 order defines the no. 1 relevant districts as the postcodes specified in the table in the list of the no. 1 relevant districts. it is the department for communities which must issue such lists. the same holds true of a second order made by the secretary of state relating to no. 3 relevant districts and no. 2 relevant districts. the basis for the attorney generals reference is his assertion that the universal credit provisions in question breach article 1 protocol 1, articles 8, 14 and 12 of the echr and are therefore invalid per s. 24 of the northern ireland act 1998. the attorney general submits that the provision of lists by the department for communities is necessary in order to give effect to the secretary of states commencement orders and thus constitutes an act, per s. 24 of the 1998 act, which is incompatible with the echr and invalid. it is for this reason that the attorney general submits that the publication of lists by the department for communities raises a devolution issue under schedule 10 of the 1998 act. the department for communities refutes this, contending that the provisions under challenge concentrated the power to make welfare provision in the office of the secretary of state. the department for communities submits that its role in issuing the lists amounts to nothing more than providing administrative support to the secretary of state, and that the lists have legal effects solely by reason of the act of the secretary of state, not the act of the department. the publication of lists is not, therefore, an act raising a devolution issue under s. 24 of the 1998 act.