these appeals concern the treatment for rating purposes of atms situated in supermarkets or shops owned and operated by the retailers. there are two main issues: (1) whether the sites of the atms are to be properly identified as separate hereditaments (see below for definition) from the stores; and, if so (2) who was in rateable occupation of the separate hereditaments? the appeals in this case are designated as lead appeals. appeals relating to some 10,000 other sites have been stayed pending the final decision in these cases. the appellants in this case are the valuation officers; the respondents are the retailers, banks, and atm operators. in each of these appeals the atms are installed and operated not directly by the retailers but under contractual arrangements with related banking companies. the atms fall into four categories: 1. external atms (e.g. sainsburys worcester store): these atms are found in the external walls of stores and can be used 24 hours a day. they are chained to the floor of the cash room of the stores and are connected to the stores electricity supplies. the money dispensed is owned by the bank but kept in the cash room of the stores. 2. internal atms (e.g. some tesco stores): these atms are available only for use within the stores and can only be accessed within the stores opening hours. for all other practical purposes the arrangement are the same as with the external atms. 3. convenience store atms (e.g. londis harefield store): these atms are similar to other external atms. however, because of the much-reduced floor space of these stores, the maintenance and loading of the atms lead to greater interference with the stores workings. 4. moveable atms (the only example on appeal being at tescos nottingham store): these atms can be unbolted from the floor and moved without difficulty. hereditament is defined in s.115(1) of the general rate act 1967 (the 1967 act) as property which is or may become liable to a rate, being a unit of such property which is, or would fall to be, shown as a separate item on the valuation list. this is adopted into the current statutory scheme by s.64(1) of the local government finance act 1988 (the 1988 act). as to the definition of rateable occupation, s.65(2) of the 1988 act provides that whether a hereditament is occupied, and who is the occupier are to be determined by reference to the rules which would have applied under the 1967 act. by virtue of the valuation for rating (plant and machinery) (england) regulations 2000 (si 2000/540) (the 2000 regulations), an atm must be assumed to have no effect on the rateable value of the hereditament on which it is sited. at first instance the valuation tribunal for england held that all of the atms were situated on hereditaments which were rateably occupied separately from the host stores. this was overturned by the upper tribunal (lands chamber) which held that that, save for the moveable atm, all of the atms were situated on hereditaments separate from the host stores; but that only the external atms were rateably occupied separately from the host stores. this was overturned on appeal by the court of appeal which held that none of the atms were rateably occupied separately from the host stores.