this case concerns the scope of the duty of confidentiality owed by her majestys revenue and customs (hmrc) in respect of the affairs of taxpayers. this duty is set out in statutory form in section 18(1) of the commissioners for revenue and customs act 2005 (the 2005 act), which provides that hmrc officials may not disclose taxpayer information. section 18(2) of the 2005 act sets out a number of situations in which this duty may be overridden. these include where a disclosure is made for the purposes of a function of hmrc (s.18(2)(a)(i)) and function is given a broad and general definition in various sections. there are also a number of more specific situations set out in ss.18(2)(b) to (j), such as for the purposes of civil or criminal proceedings. mr patrick mckenna is the founder and chief executive officer of ingenious media holdings plc (ingenious media), an investment and advisory group specialising in the media and entertainment industries. it promoted film and investment schemes involving film production partnerships which utilised certain tax relief previously available [8]. on 14 june 2012 the permanent secretary for tax in hmrc, mr david hartnett, gave an off the record interview to two financial journalists from the times about tax avoidance [9]. on 21 june 2012 the times published two articles on film schemes and tax avoidance which identified mr mckenna as one of two main providers of film investment schemes in the uk and informed readers that such schemes had enabled investors to avoid at least 5 million in tax a figure that had been provided by mr hartnett. the articles also contained a direct quote from the interview with mr hartnett about mr mckenna, which was attributed to a senior revenue official [10-11]. mr mckenna and ingenious media brought a claim for judicial review of the decision of hmrc, acting by way of mr hartnett, to disclose information which concerned them to the times journalists. the court at first instance held that it should not approach the disclosures as if it were the primary decision maker. it found that the disclosures made by mr hartnett were not irrational, were made for a legitimate purpose and were proportional [14]. this approach was upheld by the court of appeal [15]. ingenious media holdings appealed to the supreme court.