where an application for a european arrest warrant (eaw) is made, and the defendant has been convicted and sentenced in the requesting state, section 2(6)(e) of the extradition act 2003 (the act) requires the eaw to include particulars of the sentence(s) imposed. this enables the requested court to determine whether the sentence is equal to or exceeds the minimum sentence required to constitute an extradition offence. section 65(3)(c) of the act applies to offences in the requesting state which would constitute an offence in the uk if it occurred there, provided that a minimum sentence of four months was imposed. many eu states provide for the aggregation of successive sentences imposed on different occasions to produce a single sentence for all of the offences committed, which usually has the effect of reducing the overall period of imprisonment. earlier case law establishes that where each of the original sentences is for conduct that satisfies all the other requirements of an extradition offence, it is enough for a eaw to specify the cumulative sentence rather than all of the individual sentences. this appeal concerns the converse: what happens if a eaw specifies only the original sentences, but after it has been issued they are aggregated and their totality reduced? lukasz zakrzewski was convicted on four occasions in poland of various offences of dishonesty or violence. his sentences were initially suspended and then activated by further offences or breaches of probation terms. on 24 february 2010, mr zakrzewski having absconded, the regional court in lodz issued a eaw against him based on these four convictions specifying the sentences passed. he was then arrested in england on 28 september 2010 and brought before the city of westminster magistrates court the same day. however, as he was facing further criminal charges in england, the extradition proceedings were adjourned. during this adjournment, mr zakrzewski applied to the district court of grudziadz in poland to have the four sentences aggregated. the court duly aggregated them and on 19 april 2012 imposed a cumulative sentence of 22 months imprisonment (as opposed to the aggregate of 45 months of the original sentences). when the extradition proceedings resumed, mr zakrzewski claimed that the aggregation order meant the eaw was no longer gave the particulars required by s.2(6)(e) because the only relevant sentence now included was the cumulative sentence. the warrant was therefore invalid, and no longer gave proper, fair or accurate particulars. district judge rose rejected mr zakrzewskis arguments and granted an extradition order. however, this was overturned by lloyd jones j in the high court on the basis that the eaw must relate to the current operative sentence in force not to earlier individual ones subsumed in an aggregated order to enable the requested court to know the length of imprisonment the requesting state had ordered. the regional court in lodz appealed to the supreme court.