on 4 january 2011, mrs sylvie beghal passed through east midlands airport with her three children on returning from visiting her husband in paris, a french national in custody on terrorist offences. she was stopped by police and, although not formally detained, arrested or suspected of being a terrorist, was told they needed to speak to her to establish whether she was involved in terrorist acts. the police did this exercising the power under paragraph 2 of schedule 7 of the terrorism act 2000, which deals with questioning individuals at ports or borders for the purpose of determining whether he appears to be [or to have been concerned in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism]. no reasonable suspicion of a past or future offence is needed. under other provisions of schedule 7, officers may also: require the production of documents carried; copy and retain material; and, search and detain (currently for a maximum of 6 hours) individuals. by way of sanction, paragraph 18 of schedule 7 of the terrorism act 2000 makes it a criminal offence, on pain of fine and/or imprisonment, wilfully to fail to comply with such requirements. a code of practice exists for officers exercising these powers. mrs beghal sent her two eldest children to the arrivals gate, asked for a lawyer (with whom she spoke on the phone) and requested and was granted an opportunity to pray. she was searched and in the absence of the lawyer was asked, amongst other questions, about her relationship with her husband, her reasons for travel, where she had stayed and whether she had travelled beyond france. she refused to answer most of the questions and was charged with the offence of wilful failure to comply with the requirement to answer questions. the questions and reporting her for failure to answer them lasted under half an hour. she later pleaded guilty to this offence and her sentence was a conditional discharge. mrs beghal brought proceedings arguing that the schedule 7 powers breached her article 5 (right to liberty), article 6 (privilege against self-incrimination) and article 8 (right to respect for private and family life) rights under the european convention on human rights (echr). the divisional court dismissed her claims.