the three respondents were part of a vitamins cartel which the european commission found by commission decision comp/e-1/37.512 of 21 november 2001 had infringed article 81 of the ec treaty (now article 101 tfeu). accordingly, the commission imposed fines on the cartelists who were given until 31 january 2002 to appeal against; (a) the infringement decision; and/or (b) the fine. only basf exercised that right of appeal and they did so only in respect of the amount of the fine; no appeal was made against the commissions decision that an infringement had occurred. on 15 march 2006 the court of first instance (cfi) reduced the amount of the fine and the deadline for any further appeal expired shortly afterwards (on 25 may 2006) without any further appeal being lodged. section 47a of the competition act 1998 (the 1998 act) provides that following an infringement finding by the commission, any person who has suffered loss as a result of that infringement may bring a follow-on claim for damages. on 12 march 2008 the four appellants sought to bring such claims against the respondents before the uk competition appeal tribunal (cat). the respondents argued that the appellants were precluded from doing so on the grounds that the two-year limitation period for the bringing of such claims had expired with the result that the claims were time-barred. the respondents contended that the limitation period started running on the date on which basfs time for appealing against the commissions infringement decision expired (31 january 2002) with the result that the limitation period expired two years later (31 january 2004) and the proposed claims were therefore time-barred. the appellants rejected this interpretation contending instead that the limitation period commenced on the date on which basfs time for appealing the cfis decision on the level of the fine expired (25 may 2006) with the result that the limitation period expired on 25 may 2008 and the proposed claims were in time. the cat held that the appellants interpretation was correct and that the proposed follow-on damages claims had been brought in time. the court of appeal (ca) granted the respondents permission to appeal and allowed the appeal holding that the plain and ordinary meaning of the statutory language drew a clear distinction between infringement decisions and penalty decisions. only infringement decisions were of relevance in determining when the limitation period started to run. the ca further held that the cat had no power to extend the time in which follow-on damages claims could be brought and eu law did not override the uk time bar or require that a power to extend time be held to exist. the appellants appealed to the supreme court on the grounds that the operation of the two-year limitation period caused legal uncertainty and thus made it excessively difficult for the appellants to pursue follow-on damages claims against the respondents in time in breach of eu law.