the proceedings arose out of the admitted and continuing failure of the united kingdom since 2010 to secure compliance in certain zones with the limits for nitrogen dioxide levels set by european union law, under directive 2008/50/ec. in a judgment of 1 may 2013, the supreme court referred certain questions to the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) concerning the interpretation of articles 13, 22 and 23 of the directive. article 13 laid down limit values for the protection of human health; in respect of nitrogen dioxide, certain limits may not be exceeded from the relevant date, i.e. 1 january 2010. article 22 provided a procedure for a member state to apply to the european commission to postpone the compliance date for not more than five years in certain circumstances and subject to specified conditions. article 23 imposed a general duty on member states to prepare air quality plans for areas where the limits were exceeded. by the second paragraph of article 23(1), in cases where the attainment deadline (was) already expired, the air quality plans must set out appropriate measures, so that the period for which the member state would be in exceedance of the limits can be kept as short as possible. where an application was made under article 22, the air quality plan had to include the information listed in annex xv, section b of the directive. this included information on all air pollution abatement measures considered, including five specified categories of measures, such as for example (d) measures to limit transport emissions. the required contents of air quality plans prepared under article 23 were in annex xv section a. clientearth argued that the uk was required by article 22 to apply for postponement in respect of all zones where compliance with the air quality limits could not be met by the original deadline. the secretary of state had not applied to postpone the deadline for some of the uks non- compliant zones, but instead in 2011 had produced air quality plans under article 23, predicting compliance would not be achieved until 2025. the secretary of state argued that it was not required to apply for postponement under article 22. the supreme court in its judgment of 1 may 2013 declared the uk to be in breach of article 13, and referred the following questions to the cjeu: (1) where in any zone of the uk the state has not achieved conformity with the nitrogen dioxide limit values by the 2010 deadline, is a member state obliged to seek postponement of the deadline in accordance with article 22? (2) if so, in what circumstances (if any) may a member state be relieved of that obligation? (3) to what extent (if at all) are the obligations of a member state which has failed to comply with article 13 affected by article 23? (4) in the event of non-compliance with articles 13 or 22, what remedies must a national court provide? the cjeu answered these questions in a judgment dated 14 november 2014 (c-404/13). the present proceedings considered what further orders, if any, should be made by the supreme court.