this appeal concerns the permissibility of a procedure whereby a claimant in employment tribunal proceedings may be excluded along with his representatives from certain aspects of those proceedings on grounds of national security. in particular the question arises as to whether such a procedure, known as a closed material procedure, is compatible with european union law and the european convention on human rights. mr tariq was employed as an immigration officer with the home office until 2006 when he was suspended and his security clearance withdrawn. the background for these decisions was the arrest of mr tariqs brother and cousin during an investigation into a suspected plot to mount a terrorist attack on transatlantic flights. mr tariqs cousin was convicted in 2008 of various offences in relation to that plot. no information suggested that mr tariq had himself been involved in any terrorism plot. mr tariq commenced proceedings in the employment tribunal claiming direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of race and religion. he alleged that the home office had relied on stereotypical assumptions about him, muslims and individuals of pakistani origin such as susceptibility to undue influence and that the home office had indirectly discriminatory policies and procedures. the home office denied this and stated that its decisions were based on mr tariqs association with individuals suspected of involvement in terrorist activities and the risk of their attempting to exert influence on him to abuse his position. section 10(6) of the employment tribunals act 1996 provides that the secretary of state may make regulations that enable a tribunal to adopt a closed material procedure if it considers this expedient in the interests of national security. rule 54(2) of schedule 1 to the employment tribunals (constitution and rules of procedure) regulations 2004 (the regulations) provides for the adoption of a closed material procedure if the tribunal so orders. schedule 2 provides for the use of special advocates, whose role is to represent a claimants interests so far as possible in relation to the aspects closed to him and his representatives. the employment tribunal made an order for a closed material procedure, directing that mr tariq and his representatives should be excluded from the proceedings when closed evidence or documents were being considered. mr tariq appealed the order to the employment appeal tribunal. the appeal was dismissed and a further appeal was dismissed by the court of appeal. the court of appeal, however, declared that article 6 of the european convention on human rights required mr tariq to be provided with the allegations being made against him in sufficient detail to enable him to give instructions to his legal team so that those allegations can be challenged effectively. this requirement is known as gisting. the home office appealed to the supreme court against the declaration and mr tariq cross-appealed against the conclusion that a closed material procedure was permissible.