in 2001 regeneron pharmaceuticals inc filed patents for a new type of genetically modified mouse. regenerons breakthrough was a hybrid version of the gene that produces antibodies, combining a section of the mouses genetic material (the constant region dna) with a section of genetic material from a human (the variable region dna). the resulting mouse can be used to produce antibodies which are suitable for medical treatment in humans, but are sufficiently similar to mouse antibodies that they do not cause immunological sickness in the mouse. the idea of combining a human variable region with a mouse constant region was a major contribution to science. at the hearing in february 2020 the court was told that hybrid mice incorporating this invention had a range of medical uses, including in the race to generate antibody therapies against coronavirus. in 2013 regeneron sued a british company, kymab ltd, for infringement of its patents. kymab was producing its own genetically modified mice, branded kymice, with a similar genetic structure to regenerons mice. kymab responded by arguing the patents filed by regeneron in 2001 were invalid because they fell foul of a patent law rule called sufficiency. sufficiency means documents filed with the patent must be detailed enough to enable scientifically skilled readers to make the invention for themselves. the court of appeal found that regenerons patents contained enough information to enable a skilled reader to insert some of the human material into a mouses genes. this would have created one type of hybrid mouse. however, the patents did not explain how to create a hybrid structure incorporating the full human variable region genes into the mouses genome. that was a complicated feat of genetic engineering and no reliable method for doing it was invented until 2011. this meant an expert reading the patents in 2001 would be unable to make many types of hybrid mice which regeneron had claimed to have invented. the court of appeal upheld the patents, saying there was no need for the patents to explain how to make the full range of mice because regenerons idea was a principle of general application. kymab appealed to the supreme court.