mr aaron hunt, born on 17 april 1991, suffers from adhd, learning difficulties and behavioural problems. as a result, north somerset council (the council) are statutorily required, so far as reasonably practicable, to secure access for him to sufficient educational and recreational leisure-time activities for the improvement of his well-being. on 21 february 2012, the council made a decision to approve a reduction of 364,793 from its youth services budget for 2012/2013. mr hunt, concerned about the impact this would have on the provision of services for young persons with disabilities, brought judicial review proceedings of that decision. he argued that the decision was unlawful on two grounds: (1) the council had failed its duty under section 507b of the education act 1996 to take properly into account the views of young persons with difficulties such as his; and, (2) it failed to fulfil its public sector equality duty under section 149 of the equality act 2010 to have due regard to the statutory equality needs of disabled individuals. he sought a declaration that the councils decision was unlawful and an order that the decision be quashed. at the end of the high court hearing, but before giving judgment, wyn williams j asked the parties barristers for written submissions on relief in the event that he found in favour of mr hunt. the note provided by mr hunts barristers stated that he sought a quashing order but made no reference to a declaration. ultimately, wyn williams j rejected mr hunts challenges to the legality of the decision. mr hunt was ordered to pay the councils costs, subject to a proviso against enforcement of the costs order without further permission of the court. the court of appeal allowed mr hunts appeal on both grounds. it, nonetheless, refused to make a quashing order, considering that it was too late to unwind the entire revenue budget for the financial year. it also ordered him to pay half of the councils costs. mr hunts barristers did not make alternative submissions about declaratory relief so no mention was made of this in the court of appeals judgment. mr hunts barristers did not raise this omission on receiving the judgment in draft and did not make suggestions as to the appropriate form of the order in light of the judgment. the councils barristers prepared a draft order stating that the appeal was dismissed. mr hunts barristers stated in written submissions that the parties were agreed on the order except in relation to costs. mr hunt appealed to the supreme court on the basis that the court of appeal should have made: (1) a declaration that the council had failed in its statutory obligations; and, (2) an order for costs in his favour.