this appeal concerns whether certain rules of the visa and mastercard payment card schemes have the effect of restricting competition, in breach of article 101(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and equivalent national legislation. the appellants, visa and mastercard, operate open four-party payment card schemes. under these schemes, issuers (generally banks) issue debit and/or credit cards to cardholder customers and acquirers (also generally banks) provide payment services to merchants (such as the respondents). the scheme operator, visa or mastercard, sets the rules of the scheme and allows institutions to join as issuers and/or acquirers. the schemes operate as follows. a cardholder contracts with an issuer, which agrees to provide the cardholder with a visa or mastercard debit or credit card. it agrees terms on which they may use the card to buy goods or services from merchants, which may include a fee paid by the cardholder, an interest rate for credit, and incentives or rewards paid by the issuer to the cardholder for using the card (such as airmiles or cashback). merchants contract with an acquirer, which agrees to provide services to the merchant enabling acceptance of the cards for a fee. this is known as the merchant service charge (msc). to settle a transaction made between a cardholder and a merchant, the issuer pays the acquirer, who passes the payment on to the merchant, less the msc. the rules of both schemes provide for the payment of a default interchange fee, known as the multilateral interchange fee (mif), on each transaction, which is payable by the acquirer to the issuer. though under the rules acquirers and issuers are not required to contract based on the mif, in practice they invariably do so. visa and mastercard do not receive any part of the mif or the msc. their remuneration comes from scheme fees paid by issuers and acquirers. for most of the claim period, the mif typically accounted for some 90% of the msc. acquirers passed on all of the mif to the merchants through the msc, with negotiation between acquirers and merchants in respect of the msc being limited to the level of the acquirers margin. schemes such as the visa and mastercard schemes operate in a two-sided market. on one side, issuers compete for the business of cardholder customers. on the other side, acquirers compete for the business of merchants to whom they seek to offer acquiring services. these proceedings concern the effect of mifs on competition in the acquiring market. article 101(1) tfeu prohibits agreements between companies that may affect trade between member states, and which have as their object or effect the restriction of competition. article 101(3) provides for an exemption where the agreement improves the production or distribution of goods or promotes technical or economic progress while allowing consumers a fair share of the resulting benefit. these provisions are reflected in sections 2 and 9 of the competition act 1998 (the 1998 act), respectively. the visa and mastercard schemes have previously been subject to scrutiny by competition authorities. in a decision dated 19 december 2007, the european commission decided that the mastercard mifs applicable within the european economic area (eea mifs) breached article 101(1) (the mastercard commission decision). mastercard applied to the court of justice of the european union (the cjeu) for annulment of the mastercard commission decision, which was dismissed by a judgment of the general court (mastercard gc). mastercard appealed this decision to the court of justice, which gave judgment dismissing the appeal (mastercard cj). the present appeal relates to three sets of proceedings. in the first, brought by sainsburys supermarkets ltd (sainsburys) against mastercard, the competition appeal tribunal (the cat) held that mastercard mifs in the uk (uk mifs) restricted competition by effect and awarded damages to sainsburys. in the second, brought by asda stores ltd, argos ltd and others, and wm morrison supermarkets plc (together aam) against mastercard, popplewell j in the commercial court found that mastercards eea mifs, uk mifs and mifs in the republic of ireland (irish mifs) did not infringe article 101 and were exempt under article 101(3) in any event. in the third, brought by sainsburys against visa, phillips j in the commercial court dismissed the claim and found that visas uk mifs did not restrict competition in the acquiring market. at the request of the parties, phillips j gave an additional judgment, in which he found that if the mifs did restrict competition, they were not exempt under article 101(3). the appeals in these three sets of proceedings were heard together by the court of appeal, which overturned all four judgments given below. it held that there was restriction of competition and made various rulings as to the legal effect of article 101(3). the court of appeal remitted the article 101(3) exemption issue in all three sets of proceedings to the cat for reconsideration in the light of the legal rulings it had made and based on the evidence adduced in all three cases. visa and mastercard seek to appeal the court of appeals decision on four grounds. aam seek to cross-appeal against the order for remittal.