the appellants are all employed to work in various capacities on offshore oil and gas installations. the respondents are their employers. with the exception of one, all were contracted to work to a pattern of two weeks offshore followed by two weeks onshore (called a field break). whilst offshore the appellants generally worked a 12 hour shift each day during which rest breaks were taken. this was followed by 12 hours off duty living offshore on the installation. they did not have any days off while they were offshore. for the most part the appellants were free from work-related obligations during the entire period of their field breaks. the working time regulations 1998 (the wtr) set out in domestic law the provisions of the working time directive 2003 (the wtd), which lays down minimum health and safety requirements for the organisation of working time, with minimum rest periods consisting of daily rest, weekly rest and annual leave (articles 3 to 7 wtd). article 7 of the wtd and regulation 13 of the wtr provide that the worker is entitled to paid annual leave of at least four weeks (at the time the appellants made their claims). regulation 15 of the wtr provides that a worker may take leave to which he is entitled on such days as he chooses by giving notice to his employer, but that the employer may require him to take leave on particular days. the issue in this case is whether the period spent onshore should count towards the workers entitlement to four weeks paid annual leave. the appellants issued proceedings contending that annual leave, properly construed, means release from what would otherwise have been an obligation to work, and therefore the wtr required the respondents to permit them to take annual leave from periods when they would otherwise be required to work on the offshore installation. the respondents maintained that the time onshore is itself a rest period, as it is not working time, so the paid annual leave entitlement was discharged by two weeks onshore within the shift pattern. the employment tribunal held that leave in regulation 13 of the wtr involved a release from what would otherwise have been an obligation to work. that decision was set aside by the employment appeal tribunal, which held that the time available during field breaks, after allowing for compensatory rest to take account of the fact that the appellants worked offshore without a weekly rest period, was more than sufficient to cover the entitlement to annual leave. the inner house of the court of session refused the appellants appeal, holding that what the wtd required was that there be provided to the worker within the year at least four remunerated weeks in which he was free from working commitments. there was nothing in the wtd to suggest that employers might not arrange matters so that annual leave was taken during the school holidays or such similar industrial equivalent.