this appeal and cross-appeal arise out of claims made by certain investment trust companies (the itcs) for refunds of vat which they had paid on the supply of investment management services from investment managers (the managers). the vat transpired not to be due, because the supplies in question were exempt from vat under eu law. the managers who received vat from the itcs paid it to the commissioners, believing they were entitled to deduct from the vat chargeable on their supplies to the itcs (output tax) the tax which they had themselves paid on supplies received for the purposes of their businesses (input tax). out of a notional 100 received from the itcs, the managers might have therefore accounted to the commissioners for only 75 after deducting 25 in respect of input tax. when it transpired that the supplies were vat exempt, the managers made claims to the commissioners for refunds under s.80 of the vat act 1994, and passed on the refunded vat and interest to the itcs. however, under the statute, the managers were only entitled to a refund of the vat they had actually paid the commissioners (i.e. the notional 75). in addition, they could not claim refunds in relation to accounting periods excluded by the three year statutory limitation period under s.80 (the dead periods). the itcs did not receive the full amount of vat they had been mistakenly charged and brought proceedings against the commissioners seeking remedies in unjust enrichment and eu law in respect of the notional 25 and the dead periods. the judge found that the commissioners had been enriched by the full amount of vat the itcs paid to the managers (i.e the notional 100), but that the itcs cause of action at common law was excluded by the statutory scheme, which protected the commissioners from liability other than as provided in s.80. eu law required that exclusion to be disapplied so as to permit a claim, but still subject to the limitation period in s.80. the claim in relation to the dead periods was therefore dismissed, but payment of the notional 25 outside those periods was ordered. both sides appealed, and the court of appeal allowed both appeals. the statutory scheme did not exclude a common law claim, but it was wrong to treat the commissioners as having been enriched to the extent of the notional 100, where they had only received 75. there was no claim in eu law for the remaining amounts retained by the managers. judgment was given for the notional 75 claim in relation to the dead periods, and the claim for the notional 25 (for all periods) was dismissed.