this is an interlocutory appeal in a criminal case in which the appellants are defendants indicted for offences of unauthorised use of trademarks, contrary to section 92(1) of the trade marks act 1994 (the 1994 act). an offence is committed under that section where a person does any of the following three things (with the intent to gain or to cause loss, and without the consent of the trademark proprietor): (a) applies to goods a sign identical to, or likely to be mistaken for, a registered trade mark, (b) sells goods which bear such a sign, or (c) possesses in the course of a business any such goods with a view to committing an offence under (b). the allegations against the appellants (which have yet to be proved) are that they are engaged in the bulk import and subsequent sale of goods bearing registered trademarks, manufactured abroad, in countries outside the eu. a significant portion of the goods said to be sold by the appellants were manufactured (and the trademark applied) with the permission of the trademark proprietor, but were then sold without the trademark proprietors consent (for example because the goods were in excess of the numbers or below the quality permitted by the trademark proprietor). the appellant describes these as grey market goods and distinguishes them from true counterfeits manufactured without the authorisation of the trademark proprietor. at a preparatory hearing in the crown court, the appellants argued that while the sale of grey goods attracts civil liability, it is not covered by the offence in s.92(1), which properly construed applies only to true counterfeits. the appellants argued that such a sign in subsection (1)(b) refers back to (1)(a), so that 1(b) applies only to goods where the trademark has been applied without the consent of the proprietor. any goods in the grey market category have had the trademark originally applied with the consent of the proprietor. it is only the sale which the proprietor has not authorised. it follows, they contend, that they are not, when it comes to paragraph (b), goods which bear such a sign. both the trial judge and the court of appeal (criminal division) rejected that submission.