the issue in the appeal is: what are the statutory consequences if the fingerprints of a defendant have been taken in a police station in northern ireland by an electronic device for which the legislation required approval from the secretary of state, when such approval has never been given? in particular, is any evidence which makes use of the fingerprints taken on such a device inadmissible at the defendants trial? the appellants were charged with theft in northern ireland. the offence was alleged to have taken place on 6 october 2007. a stack of building materials had been found removed from the owners depot apparently ready for collection by thieves. the appellants were found nearby in a van but said they were waiting there innocently. they were arrested and their fingerprints were taken at the police station using an electronic fingerprint scanner called livescan. this machine has been commonly used by police in the uk, including in northern ireland, for a number of years. a fingerprint matching elliotts left thumb was found on packaging of the building materials. article 61 of the police and criminal evidence (northern ireland) order sets out the powers of the police to take fingerprints without consent. between 1 march 2007 and 12 january 2010 article 61(8b) provided that where a persons fingerprints are taken electronically, they may only be taken using such devices, as the secretary of state has approved for the purpose of electronic fingerprinting. due to an oversight no approval was ever given to any device (including livescan) until it was belatedly provided on 29 march 2009. article 61(8b) was later repealed by the policing and crime act 2009. therefore at the time the fingerprints were taken from the appellants there was no approval for the livescan machine in breach of article 61 (8b). the appellants were convicted at trial and no issue over the fingerprints was taken. after the lack of approval for the livescan device was noticed the appellants appealed to the county court which, after a full re-hearing, declared the fingerprint evidence inadmissible and acquitted the appellants. the public prosecution service appealed to the court of appeal who allowed the appeal and reinstated the appellants convictions. the appellants primary argument before the supreme court and the courts below was that the lack of approval for the livescan device meant that the fingerprints obtained with it were automatically inadmissible at the appellants trial.