these appeals raise questions of some significance arising out of the interrelationship of the statutory schemes relating to the protection of employees pensions and to corporate insolvency. in order to protect employees from the adverse consequences of an under-funded occupational pension scheme, the pensions act 2004 (the 2004 act) introduced a financial support direction (fsd) regime. this enables the pensions regulator in specified circumstances (i) to impose, by the issue of an fsd to some or all of the other group companies (known as targets), an obligation to provide reasonable financial support to the under-funded scheme of the service company or insufficiently resourced employer, and (ii) to deal with non-compliance with that obligation by imposing, through a contribution notice (a cn), a specific monetary liability payable by a target to the trustees. many uk registered members of the lehman group of companies and of the nortel group of companies have gone into insolvent administration. one of those lehman group companies entered into service contracts with, and ran a pension scheme for the benefit of, employees who worked for other group members. the nortel group included a company which had a pension scheme, and which was insufficiently resourced to fund that scheme. the pension scheme (the scheme) in each case was a final salary scheme, which appears to be, and to have been for some time, in substantial deficit. the pensions regulator subsequently initiated machinery under the 2004 act to require certain other group members the target companies to provide financial support for the scheme. that machinery has been held up so it can be decided how the administrators of a target company should treat that companys potential liability under the fsd regime (in due course the liability under a cn) in a case where the fsd is not served until after the company has gone into administration (or into insolvent liquidation). specifically, would the liability under such a requirement rank (a) as an expense of the targets administration, (b) pari passu (i.e. equally) with the target companies other unsecured creditors, or (c) as neither? under option (a) the liability would rank ahead of the unsecured creditors, and may well be paid in full; under option (b) it would rank equally with those creditors; under option (c) it would rank behind them, and would probably be worthless. briggs j and the court of appeal concluded that option (b) was not open to them, and preferred option (a) to option (c).