in 2006 the united states of america (usa) closed a watercraft repair centre (the base) which it maintained in hampshire. mrs nolan was employed at the base by the appellant and was dismissed for redundancy the day before it closed. mrs nolan complained that the appellant had failed to consult with any employee representative when proposing to dismiss her. the appellant denies any such duty. mrs nolan brought employment tribunal proceedings under part iv chapter ii of the trade union and labour relations (consolidation) act 1992 (tulcra) as amended by the collective redundancies and transfer of undertakings (protection of employment) (amendment) regulations 1995 (si 1995/2587) (the 1995 regulations). tulcra as originally enacted by parliament went beyond the requirements of european law under council directive 77/187/eec (or now under council directive 98/59/eec) in extending a right to be consulted prior to redundancies to employees of public administrative bodies, such as those at the base. but it fell short of european law in that it was confined to circumstances where employees enjoyed union representation recognised by the employer. in 1994 the court of justice identified this failure, and in consequence the secretary of state relying on the power to make secondary legislation conferred by section 2(2) of the european communities act 1972 (the 1972 act) made the 1995 regulations which amended tulcra to require employee representatives to be designated for consultation purposes in all situations covered by tulcra. on the basis of tulcra as amended, mrs nolan succeeded before the employment tribunal and was granted an order for remuneration for a one month period. this employment appeal tribunal upheld the order. the court of appeal referred to the court of justice the question whether the obligation to consult arose on a proposal or only on a decision to close the base (the uk coal mining and fujitsu issue: see [2008] icr 163 and case c-44/08; [2009] ecr i-8163). the court of justice declined jurisdiction, holding that (i) directive 98/59/eec being an internal market measure covering economic activities, national defence and the dismissal of staff at a military base are outside its scope; and (ii) it was not appropriate to rule on a question relating to a public administrative establishment to which the directive did not apply. the court of appeal ordered a further hearing of the uk coal mining/fujitsu issues. the usa appeals to the supreme court on three grounds: (1) tulcra should in the light of the court of justices ruling be construed as not applying to employment by a public administrative establishment, at least as regards non-commercial (jure imperii) activity such as closure of a military base decided at the highest level in washington; (2) the same result should be reached in the light of principles of international law and eu law; (3) in any event, the secretary of state exceeded the powers conferred by s.2 of the 1972 act when making the 1995 regulations, in so far as these went further than eu law requires by protecting workers without trade union representation employed by public administrative establishments.