this appeal concerns the interpretation of a provision of the housing act 1996 (the 1996 act) relating to the duties of local housing authorities to provide accommodation for those who are, or claim to be, homeless or threatened with homelessness. section 175 of the 1996 act states, in essence, that a person is homeless if he has no accommodation available for his occupation in the united kingdom or elsewhere. according to section 176, accommodation is to be regarded as available for a persons occupation only if it is available for occupation by him together with any other person who normally resides with him as a member of his family, or any other person who might reasonably be expected to reside with him [3]. the phrase available for his occupation is relevant not only to establishing whether a person is homeless for the purposes of the 1996 act, but also to identifying what duties a local authority owes to a person who is, or claims to be, homeless [4]. in 2004, camden london borough council accepted that it owed a duty under the 1996 act to provide accommodation to ms sharif, her father (a man in his 60s with certain health problems) and her sister (aged 14), on the basis that ms sharif was homeless. they were initially accommodated by the council in a hostel and later moved to a three-bedroom house owned by a private sector landlord. in 2009, the council asked ms shariff, her father and her sister to move to two units on the same floor of a block of flats in north london. each unit comprised a single bed-sitting room with cooking facilities, plus a bathroom. the two units were separated by only a few yards. it was envisaged by the council that ms sharif and her sister would share one unit, and the other unit (suitable only for one person) would be used by her father [8]. ms sharif refused the offer, saying that the accommodation was not suitable because her fathers medical condition required them to live in the same unit of accommodation [9]. ms sharif requested a review of the councils decision, but the councils reviewing officer concluded that the accommodation offered was suitable [9]. ms sharif appealed to the london central county court on a number of grounds, including the suggestion that the accommodation was not suitable and that section 176 of the 1996 act precluded the council from offering ms sharif and her family two separate units of accommodation [10]. the county court dismissed the appeal [11]. there was no further appeal on the issue of the suitability of the accommodation. however, the court of appeal reversed the county courts decision on the basis that the words together with in section 176 require a homeless family to be housed in the same unit of accommodation [12]. the council appealed to the supreme court.