this appeal concerns the liability for value added tax (vat) of a company known as med, which marketed hotel accommodation in the mediterranean and the caribbean through a website. an hotelier who wished his hotel to be marketed by med had to enter into a written agreement with med (the accommodation agreement). when a potential customer identified a hotel at which she wished to stay, she would book a holiday through a form on the website, which set out standard booking conditions (the website terms). the customer had to pay the whole of the sum she agreed with med to pay for the holiday (the gross sum) before arriving at the hotel. however, med only paid the hotel a lower sum (the net sum) for the holiday after it had ended. vat is an eu tax levied on the supply of goods or services. by article 2.1(c) of directive 2006/112/ec (the principal vat directive) vat is liable to be levied on the supply of services for consideration within the territory of a member state by a taxable person acting as such. article 45 states that the place of the supply of services connected with immovable propertyshall be the place where the property is located. the application of article 45 to travel agents could result in their having to be registered in many member states, and so articles 306-310 contain a special scheme relating to travel agents. article 306 differentiates between two categories of travel agent, namely (a) those who deal with customers in their own name and use supplies of goods or services provided by other taxable persons, in the provision of travel facilities and (b) those who act solely as intermediaries (referred to for convenience as, respectively, article 306.1(a) and article 306.1(b)), and provides for a special vat scheme for transactions carried out by travel agents who fall within article 306.1(a). the commissioners for her majestys revenue and customs (hmrc) assessed med for vat on the basis that med was a travel agent that deals with customers in its own name within the meaning of article 306.1(a). on that basis, it was agreed that med would be liable for vat on the gross sum paid by the customer to med. med challenged this assessment, on the ground that it was a travel agent acting solely as an intermediary within the meaning of article 306.1(b). on this approach, any vat would be due to the greek taxation authorities. the first-tier tribunal upheld hmrcs analysis. morgan j allowed meds appeal, but hmrcs subsequent appeal to the court of appeal was successful.