mr george was born in grenada in 1984 and came to the uk in 1995 at the age of 11. in march 2000 he was granted indefinite leave to remain (ilr) in the uk. he has a partner whom he has known since school, with whom he has a daughter born in 2005. he and his partner do not live together: his daughter however sees him reasonably often and sometimes stays with him. since 2000, mr george has been convicted of seven different offences, including supply of cocaine and possession with intent to supply heroin and cocaine. the secretary of state decided that mr georges deportation would be conducive to the public good. from that point he was, by s. 3(5) immigration act 1971 (the 1971 act), liable to deportation. notice was served upon him, in january 2007, that a deportation order was to be made against him. he unsuccessfully challenged that decision and, on 24 april 2008, a deportation order was made in respect of him. the effect of that deportation order, by section 5(1) of the 1971 act, was to invalidate his ilr. mr george made a further application to the secretary of state arguing that his deportation to grenada would be unlawful under s. 6 human rights act 1998 as it would breach his right to private and family life under article 8 echr. the secretary of state rejected that application, but an immigration judge allowed his appeal on 31 march 2009. the effect of that judgment was to revoke his deportation order. the question in this case is mr georges immigration status following the making and revocation of the deportation order. did mr georges ilr, invalidated by the deportation order, revive when the deportation order was itself revoked? mr georges solicitors considered that it did, and called on the secretary of state to confirm this. the secretary of state however considered that it did not, and instead granted six months discretionary leave to remain (dlr) on 2 august 2013. on the expiry of that leave the secretary of state granted a further three years dlr. mr george judicially reviewed the decision not to reinstate ilr. he argued that on the true interpretation of s. 5(1)-(2) immigration act 1971, his ilr was reinstated by the revocation of the deportation order. subsection (1) provides that a deportation order shall invalidate any leave to remain given [to a person] before the order is made or while it is in force. subsection (2) provides that a deportation order may at any time be revoked by a further order of the secretary of state, and shall cease to have effect if he becomes a british citizen. he further argued that an interpretation of s. 5 by which his ilr was revived was supported by the fact that other immigration statutes, particularly s. 76 of the nationality, immigration and asylum act 2002 (the 2002 act), required that reading of the 1971 act. mr georges claim was dismissed in the high court, but his appeal to the court of appeal was allowed. the secretary of state appealed to the supreme court.