this appeal concerns the effect of the gla roads and side roads (transfer of property etc) order 2000 (si 2000/1552) (the transfer order) and the gla roads designation order 2000 (si 2000/1117) (the designation order). by combined operation of those orders, responsibility for greater london authority (gla) roads was transferred from individual london borough councils, including the respondents (the councils) as local highway authorities, to the appellant (tfl). the provision at the heart of this appeal is article 2(1)(a) of the transfer order, which provides for the transfer of the highway, in so far as it is vested in the former highway authority. tfl and the councils convened a statutory arbitration before mr john males qc. the purpose was to determine exactly what specified property and liabilities transferred to tfl in relation to each highway. the dispute between the parties is whether the automatic transfer of the highway under article 2(1)(a) of the transfer order carried with it: (i) only the zone of ordinary use (i.e. the road surface and the airspace and subsoil necessary for the operation, maintenance and repair of the road) or (ii) the entire vertical plane (i.e. all the airspace above and the subsoil below the surface of the road), to the extent that the relevant council already owned it prior to the transfer date. in the arbitration and at each stage on appeal, the councils argued the transfer was limited to the former, while tfl argued for the latter, wider approach. the arbitrator broadly agreed with tfls case. the caveat was that particular layers or slices of subsoil and/or airspace that had acquired a separate identity by the transfer date could not be treated as parts of the highway and so did not pass to tfl. on appeal to the high court, mr justice mann agreed with the arbitrator, recording a concession by counsel for tfl that its claim related to land acquired for or appropriated to highway purposes. however, on further appeal, the court of appeal adopted a narrower position. it considered that the word highway in article 2(1)(a) of the transfer order must have been intended to carry the same meaning as it had at common law, and in relation to section 263 of the highways act 1980 (the 1980 act). thus, the court of appeal held that only the zone of ordinary use had transferred to tfl.