in july 2008, the appellant, then aged 76, was knocked over on a street in the centre of huddersfield by a group of men. two of the men were police officers (ds willan and pc dhurmea) and the third was a suspected drug dealer (williams) whom they were attempting to arrest. as the officers struggled with williams, he backed into the appellant, who was standing close by. she fell over, and the three men fell on top of her, causing her to be injured. the officers had foreseen that williams would attempt to escape. they had not noticed that the appellant was in the immediate vicinity. the principal question to be decided in this appeal was whether the officers owed a duty of care to the appellant and whether, if they did, they were in breach of that duty. the judge held that the officers had been negligent, but that the police were immune from claims against them in negligence. the court of appeal found that most claims against the police when engaged in their core functions will fail the third stage of the caparo test i.e. that it will not be fair, just and reasonable to impose a duty of care. the court also found that williams had caused the harm to the appellant and the case therefore concerned an omission by the police, rather than a positive act. finally, the court considered that even if the officers had owed the appellant a duty of care, they had not acted in breach of it. the issues to be resolved in the supreme court were (1) does the existence of a duty of care always depend on an application of the caparo test (2) is there a general rule that the police are not under any duty of care when discharging their core functions, and is there any distinction between acts and omissions (3) was this a positive act or an omissions case (4) did the police owe a duty of care to the appellant (5) if so, was the court of appeal correct to overturn the judges finding that the officers failed in that duty and (6) if there was a breach of a duty of care, were the appellants injuries caused by it?