this case concerns the correct construction of refund guarantees issued by the respondent bank in relation to six shipbuilding contracts. in may 2007 the first to sixth claimants (the buyers) entered into shipbuilding contracts (the contracts) with jinse shipbuilding co ltd (the builder). under the contracts the builder agreed to build and sell one vessel to each of the six buyers. the price of each vessel was us$33.3m, which was to be paid in five equal instalments. article x.8 of the contracts stated that payment of the first instalment was conditional upon the builder providing the buyer with a satisfactory refund guarantee from a first class korean bank. article x.5 gave the buyer a right to a full refund in the event that the buyer exercised their right to reject the vessel or to terminate, cancel or rescind the contract. article xii.3 of the contracts then gave the buyers further rights to repayment of instalments paid in the event of a default by the builder. in particular, article xii.3 stated that if the builder became subject to certain insolvency proceedings, the buyer may by notice in writing to the builder require the builder to refund immediately to the buyer the full amount of all sums paid by the buyer to the builder. as envisaged by article x.8 of the contracts, in august 2007 the respondent bank issued each of the buyers with materially identical advanced payment bonds (the bonds). paragraph 2 of the bonds stated that, under the terms of the buyers contract with the builder, the buyer was entitled to a refund in the event that they exercised their right to reject the vessel or to terminate, cancel or rescind the contract. the respondents guarantee obligation was then set out in paragraph 3, which stated that the respondent promised to pay the buyer all such sums due to you under the contract. the first line of paragraph 3 explained that this promise was given [i]n consideration of your agreement to make the pre-delivery instalments under the contract. paragraph 4 stated that payment would be made upon receipt of a written demand from the buyer stating that the builder had failed to fulfil the terms of the contract and specifying the amount claimed. paragraph 5(v) stated that the respondents liability under the bonds would not be affected by any insolvency, re-organisation or dissolution of the builder. each of the buyers duly paid the first instalment of us$6.66m due under the contracts. one of the buyers also subsequently paid a second instalment in the same amount. in 2008 the builder experienced financial difficulties and in january 2009 it became subject to a formal debt workout procedure under the korean corporate restructuring promotion law 2007. in april 2009 the buyers wrote to the respondent demanding repayment under the bonds of the instalments that had been paid to the builder under the contracts. the respondent rejected the buyers demands on the basis that, on the true construction of the bonds, the respondent had not undertaken to guarantee payment of refunds arising under article xii.3 of the contracts. in the high court the judge ruled in favour of the buyers construction of the bonds and entered summary judgment against the respondent. on appeal, the majority of the court of appeal (thorpe and patten ljj) overturned the high courts ruling and entered summary judgment in favour of the respondent. sir simon tuckey gave a dissenting judgment in which he explained his reasons for preferring the high court judges construction of the bonds. the supreme court granted the appellants leave to appeal to the supreme court.