this is a case about the rights of unmarried fathers to take part in childrens hearings under part ii of the children (scotland) act 1995. it raises two distinct issues. the first concerns the kind of order made in the sheriff court which would be effective to give a father the right to take part in the childrens hearing. the second concerns the compatibility of the statutory scheme for participation in the childrens hearing with the rights of the father (and indeed the child) under the european convention on human rights. the appellant k is an unmarried father. he formed a relationship with jr. they cohabited and had a child, l, born in may 2002, whose birth they registered together. their relationship subsequently broke down. after the separation, k continued to have contact with l, and was involved with her hospital appointments until at least september 2003. in about may 2004, k raised proceedings in the sheriff court seeking full parental responsibilities and parental rights and a contact order. an interim order for weekly overnight stays was made. in december 2005, jr alleged that k had abused l. in march 2006, the local authoritys social work services department referred the case to the principal reporter on the ground that l was in need of compulsory measures of supervision. there were childrens hearings in june and july and in august the sheriff deemed the grounds of referral proved and remitted the case to the childrens hearing. k was not entitled to attend any of these hearings as he was not a relevant person within the meaning of section 93(2)(b) of the 1995 act. at a child welfare hearing on 27 october 2006, the sheriff made an order granting k parental rights and responsibilities to the extent that he becomes a relevant person in the childrens referral. thereafter k attended the childrens hearings. in august 2007, the hearing imposed a condition of no contact between k and l. in january 2009 k appealed against the continuation of this condition. the principal reporter then challenged the sheriffs order in the court of session on the ground that it was incompetent. on 27 march 2009, the lord ordinary suspended the sheriffs order of 27 october 2006. on 21 january 2010 the first division refused ks appeal and his application for a declaration of incompatibility with the european convention on human rights. section 11(1) of the 1995 act provides that the sheriff court may make an order in relation to parental responsibilities and parental rights. subsection (7) provides that in considering whether to make an order under subsection (1), the court shall regard the welfare of the child as its paramount consideration, shall not make an order unless it would be better for the child to do so, and, where practicable, shall ascertain the childs views. these considerations are referred to as the overarching principles. section 93(2)(b) defines relevant person as a person (including a parent) with parental responsibilities or parental rights or who appears to be a person who ordinarily has charge of, or control over, the child.