these proceedings concern three sets of claims which arise out of the deaths of three young british servicemen and the serious injuries of two other young british servicemen in iraq. the first set (the challenger claims) arise from a friendly fire incident involving british tanks which caused the death of cpl stephen allbutt and the serious injury of lance cpl daniel twiddy and tpr andrew julien. they are brought in negligence and allege failures by the ministry of defence (the mod) to properly equip the tanks involved and to give soldiers adequate recognition training. the second set (the snatch land rover claims) arise from the deaths of pte phillip hewett (son of the claimant susan smith) and pte lee ellis (father of the claimant courtney ellis and brother of the claimant karla ellis) by the detonation of improvised explosive devices level with the snatch land rovers in which the soldiers were travelling. the claimants all claim that the mod breached the implied positive obligation in article 2 of the european convention on human rights (the convention) to take preventive measures to protect life in the light of the real and immediate risk to life of soldiers who were required to patrol in snatch land rovers. the third (the ellis negligence claim) is brought by courtney ellis in negligence and is based on various alleged failures on the part of the mod [1 12]. the mod argued that the snatch land rover claims under article 2 of the convention should be struck out because at the time of their deaths pte hewett and pte ellis were not within the jurisdiction of the uk for the purposes of the convention, and because on the facts as pleaded the mod did not owe a duty to them at the time of their deaths under article 2. it also argued that the challenger claims and the ellis negligence claim should all be struck out (1) on the principle of combat immunity (which operates to exclude liability for negligence in respect of the acts or omissions of those engaged in active operations against the enemy), and (2) because it would not be fair, just or reasonable to impose a duty of care on the mod in the circumstances of those cases [13]. the high court and court of appeal considered these arguments. the effect of the court of appeals judgment was that: (1) the snatch land rover claims under article 2 of the convention should be struck out because the deceased were outside the jurisdiction of the uk for the purposes of the convention and there was no basis for extra-territorial jurisdiction; and (2) the challenger claims and the ellis negligence claim should proceed to trial [15]. the following issues were before the supreme court. (1) in relation to the snatch land rover claims, whether at the time of their deaths pte hewett and pte ellis were within the jurisdiction of the uk for the purposes of the convention. (2) if they were, whether and if so, the extent to which article 2 imposes positive obligations on the uk with a view to preventing the deaths of its own soldiers in active operations against the enemy. (3) in relation to the challenger claims and the ellis negligence claim, whether the allegations of negligence should be struck out because they fall within the scope of combat immunity or because it would not be fair, just or reasonable to impose a duty to take care to protect against death or injury in the circumstances [16].