
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE23 February 2022Case summaryTeo Ghim Heng v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 10Criminal Appeal No 36 of 2020  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Judith Prakash):  Outcome: CoA dismissed the appeal and upheld the appellant’s conviction and sentence. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  When an accused person contends that at the time of the offence he or she suffered from an abnormality of mind and in support proffers an expert’s medical opinion that is based largely on the accused person’s self-reported symptoms, in assessing whether the abnormality of the mind existed then, the court must carefully assess the accused person’s self-reported symptoms in light of additional information from people who would ordinarily interact with him or her. However, an accused person’s self-reported account may assume greater importance in the court’s assessment of symptoms if the symptoms are not easily observable by others (at [39] and [40]). •  Sections 299 and 300(a) of the PC are not unconstitutional as they do not offend the separation of powers doctrine. The two offences are not identical, and therefore do not effectively allow the Prosecution to determine an offender’s sentence (at [123] and [132]). •  Sections 299 and 300 of the PC do not violate Art 12(1) of the Constitution. The question of contravening Art 12 only arises in a situation where persons who are in all material respects situated similarly are nonetheless treated differently. As the offences under ss 299 and 300(a) of the PC are not identical, such a situation simply does not arise here (at [138]). Background to the appeal1 The appellant killed his wife and his daughter by strangling each of them with a bath towel in the master bedroom of his flat. He was subsequently arrested and charged with the murder of his wife and his daughter under s 300(a) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“PC”). 2 Before the High Court, the appellant accepted that the elements of the offence of murder under s 300(a) of the PC had been satisfied in relation to the charges against him, but relied on two exceptions to murder under s 300 of the PC – Exception 1 (provocation) and Exception 7 (diminished responsibility). On diminished responsibility, the appellant argued that he had been suffering from an abnormality of mind arising from moderate Major Depressive Disorder (“MDD”), which substantially impaired his responsibility for his acts of killing Pei Shan and Zi Ning. The appellant further challenged the constitutionality of ss 299 and 300(a) of the PC on the grounds that they: (a) offended the separation of powers doctrine by permitting the Prosecution to encroach into the judiciary’s sentencing powers (“the separation of powers challenge”); and (b) violated Art 12(1) of the Constitution (“the Art 12 challenge”).3 The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) rejected the appellant’s defences of diminished responsibility and provocation, and also dismissed the appellant’s constitutional challenges. On appeal, the appellant abandoned the defence of provocation. Consequently, the sole issues before the Court of Appeal (“the Court”) were as follows: (a) whether the defence of diminished responsibility was made out; and (b) whether ss 299 and 300(a) of the PC were unconstitutional on the basis that they offended the separation of powers doctrine and/or contravened Art 12(1) of the Constitution. The decision of the Court 4 On the question of diminished responsibility, the Court noted that the appellant’s ability to satisfy the diminished responsibility defence was contingent on his ability to prove that he had been suffering from moderate MDD at the time of his alleged offences: at [28].5 In assessing and weighing expert medical evidence in general, it was necessary for the court to examine the underlying evidence and the analytical process by which the experts’ conclusions had been reached. Where the expert’s medical opinion was based, whether in whole or in part, on an accused person’s self-reported symptoms, the court was required to carefully assess the accused person’s self-reported symptoms in light of additional information from people who would ordinarily interact with him or her. However, an accused person’s self-reported account could assume greater importance in the court’s assessment of symptoms which were not easily observable: at [38] to [40].  6 In the present case, it was appropriate to evaluate the Judge’s findings on the expert evidence within the framework of the diagnostic criteria for MDD as set out in the American Psychiatric Association, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (American Psychiatric Association Publishing, 5th Ed, 2013) (“DSM-V”): at [42]. 7 Criterion A of the DSM-V criteria was not made out as the appellant had failed to satisfy at least five of the symptoms set out thereunder: at [91]. 8 The requirements of distress and impairment in functioning under Criterion B of the DSM-V criteria ought to be read conjunctively. A conjunctive reading was supported by: (a) the text of the DSM-V; (b) psychiatrists’ clinical practice; and (c) the description of a “Depressive Episode” in another diagnostic manual, namely the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (2nd Ed, 10th Revision, 2004) published by the World Health Organisation. As the appellant had not exhibited impairment in functioning, Criterion B of the DSM-V criteria was also not made out: at [98], [102] and [108]. 9 The appellant thus failed to qualify for a diagnosis of MDD, and accordingly the appeal against the Judge’s finding that he was not suffering from MDD was dismissed: at [109] and [111].10 Both the separation of powers challenge and the Art 12 challenge proceeded from the premise that the first limb of s 299 and s 300(a) were identical. However, this premise was incorrect. Although the act and the intention which had to be established in respect of these provisions were indeed identical, liability under s 300(a) was subject to the additional qualification that the accused did not satisfy any of the specific exceptions to murder: at [117] and [118]. 10 Since the first limb of s 299 and s 300(a) were not identical, there was no practical distinction between the Prosecution’s discretion when making charging decisions in choosing between ss 299 and 300(a) offences, and the Prosecution’s discretion in choosing between offences which had different elements and attracted different punishments. Sections 299 and 300(a) did not effectively allow the Prosecution to choose the sentence to be imposed on the offender, and therefore did not violate the separation of powers by infringing on judicial power: at [123], [125] and [132]. 11 As to the Art 12 challenge, the question of contravening Art 12 only arose in a situation where persons who were in all material respects situated similarly were nonetheless treated differently. As the offences under ss 299 and 300(a) of the PC were not identical, such a situation simply did not arise here. Consequently, the appellant’s appeal was dismissed in its totality: at [138] and [140]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
