
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE18 February 2022Case summaryVOD v VOC and another appeal [2022] SGHC(A) 6 Civil Appeals Nos 27 and 28 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Woo Bih Li JAD (delivering the judgment of the court):Outcome: Appellate Division of the High Court allows husband’s and wife’s appeals in part, adjusts division of matrimonial assets and orders backdated maintenance.Background1 The husband (“H”) and the wife (“W”) were married in January 2015. They had one son, born in November 2015. W filed for divorce in 2018 and Interim Judgment (“IJ”) was granted in 2019. The parties then sought orders for the division of matrimonial assets, custody of the child, and issues of maintenance, amongst others.2 The judge below (“the Judge”) delivered judgment (“the Judgment”) on 28 January 2021. The Judgment dealt with the division of matrimonial assets, maintenance for the child, access to the child, and costs. Pursuant to the division of matrimonial assets, H was ordered to transfer S$1,128,957.62 to W. H was also ordered to pay S$3,000 per month as maintenance for the child.3 H and W cross-appealed. Both H and W challenged several aspects of the Judge’s decision as regards the division of matrimonial assets. Namely, they contended that the Judge erred in his valuation of certain matrimonial assets, and/or in considering whether certain assets or classes of assets fell within the pool of matrimonial assets. In her appeal, W also sought backdated maintenance for the child, arguing that the Judge erred in concluding that backdated maintenance should not be awarded while H sought a reduction in the sum awarded for maintenance.The Court’s judgmentDivision of matrimonial assets4 The Judge had erroneously included a sum of S$367,829.94 in the pool of matrimonial assets. This sum was derived from H’s sale of certain bonds (the “Astrea Bonds”). The Judge concluded that the sum was used by H to pay off a loan (the “CSTM loan”) used to purchase an insurance policy (the “TM policy”). The Judge thus included the sum as a matrimonial asset held by H, as a proxy for the value of the TM policy. However, the documentary evidence showed that the sum was in fact used to pay off a different loan which was used to finance the purchase of the Astrea Bonds, and not the CSTM loan used to purchase the TM policy. Accordingly, the sum should not have been included by the Judge as a proxy for the value of the TM policy (at [5]–[15]).5 W raised several other purported discrepancies with H’s evidence on the value of the TM policy, and the value of the outstanding sum under the CSTM loan. However, W’s arguments were random and irrelevant as she did not elaborate on what inferences she wanted the court to draw. W’s cross-appeal failed to include, amongst other things, a claim for the relevant sums attributable to the TM policy and CSTM loan to be included in the pool of matrimonial assets. There was accordingly no basis for the court to interfere with the Judge’s decision in this respect (at [18]–[26]).6 The Judge was incorrect to conclude that a Bukit Timah Property (the “Property”) was the parties’ matrimonial home, and that a portion of the value of the Property, corresponding to H’s one-third interest in the Property, was to be included in the pool of matrimonial assets. In determining whether a property could be deemed a matrimonial home, each case ought to be determined on its own facts, and the court will have regard to all the relevant facts and circumstances. Here, it was undisputed that the parties had lived in the Property and raised the child there, albeit for a short time. W lived in the Property for 33 months, from 3 January 2015 to 28 September 2017, before she moved out. In contrast, H’s father’s (“F’s”) family lived in the Property since 2004, and it had been F who had been paying mortgage payments and the running expenses of the Property. F and H’s mother (“M”) were also the master and mistress of the household. The Property was indisputably F and M’s matrimonial home. W never averred that she had dominion over the household. Thus, H owned a one-third interest in his parents’ matrimonial home. Put differently, the parties lived in an extended household (at [27]–[39]).7 In the circumstances, H’s one-third interest in the Property ought not to have been included in the pool of matrimonial assets, because the Property was not H’s and W’s matrimonial home. It was not a matrimonial asset as it was a gift from F. H’s one-third interest in the Property was thus excluded from the pool of matrimonial assets. Having so concluded, the issue of the value to be attributed to H’s one-third interest did not arise for the court’s consideration (at [41]).8 The Judge was correct to conclude that H’s Singapore Island Country Club (“SICC”) membership was to be included as a matrimonial asset. H had failed to establish that the SICC membership was a gift by F before the marriage. There was no evidence as to when the membership was acquired which would have been a straightforward matter of objective evidence from SICC. While it could well be that the SICC membership was acquired before the marriage and paid for by F, it was for H to prove this which he failed to do (at [43]–[48]).9 The Judge wrongly found that a gift of S$1m, which was given by F to H on H’s wedding day, was a gift to H only and not a gift to both H and W. The Judge inferred that it was F’s intention that the S$1m sum be a gift to H only. However, the Judge erred as he placed too much weight on F’s self-serving evidence, and not enough weight on the occasion when the S$1m gift was presented. F could have handed the cheque to H before or after the wedding. However, he chose to do so at the tea ceremony for the marriage. This was a significant occasion where the parties paid their respects to senior members of the family. The overt act of presenting a gift during such a ceremony would be viewed objectively as a gift to the couple in the absence of evidence to the contrary, and unless the nature of the gift suggested otherwise. The fact that the gift was in the form of a cheque in the name of H and handed to H was equivocal. What was more significant was that it was handed to H in the presence of both parties at that ceremony. Also, in subsequent conversations, H admitted that the S$1m gift was meant for both himself and W. Accordingly, the court included the S$1m sum in the pool of matrimonial assets (at [49]–[65]).10 The Judge was incorrect to include a sum of S$2,073,247.27, which comprised dividends from shares, as a matrimonial asset held by H. The shares from which these dividends were derived had been transferred to H for S$1. The Judge found that in view of the S$1 consideration, the share transfer could not be treated as a gift, and had to be included in the pool of matrimonial assets. However, the shares were in reality a gift. While it is a principle of contract law that the adequacy (or inadequacy) of the consideration does not affect its validity, there is also the requirement that there must be an intention to create a legal relationship between the parties to support the existence of a binding contract between the parties. In the present circumstances, the relationship between F and H and the nominal sum of S$1 pointed the other way, ie, that there had been no intention to create a legal relationship and that there was no contract. As such, the court excluded the sum of S$2,073,247.27 from the pool of matrimonial assets (at [66]–[74]).11 The Judge had incorrectly included S$100,000, representing the value of W’s BMW car, as a matrimonial asset. The Judge had incorrectly found that the BMW car was not a gift from H to W. It did not matter whether the money for the car came from F or H; in W’s view, the car was a gift. As a pre-marital gift, the value of the car should be excluded from the pool of matrimonial assets (at [75]–[82]).12 Another sum of S$274,650 had been paid by H to F, allegedly as a repayment for a loan taken by H from F. This sum from F was used to purchase the BMW car. However, there was no evidence supporting the existence of a such a loan. The court hence included the S$274,650 sum transferred to H as a matrimonial asset held by H (at [83]).13 The Judge correctly included only a portion of the value of H’s Maserati car in the pool of matrimonial assets. This was the value of H’s contribution to the purchase price of the Maserati car. The rest of the value of the car was funded by F, ie, as a gift. It was incorrect for W to argue that one cannot give only a portion of a physical asset. If a parent pays for, say, 75% of an asset for a child and the payment is a gift, then the law treats 75% of the asset as a gift from the parent to the child (at [84]–[90]).14 There was no reason to vary the Judge’s use of the global assessment methodology in assessing the division of assets. H’s arguments on appeal in support of an alternative method, the classification method, were a distraction (at [91]–[103]).15 Based on the inclusion and exclusion of the abovementioned matrimonial assets by the court, the ratio of the parties’ direct financial contributions was revised from 96.8:3.2 to 93:7 in H’s favour (at [104]).16 There was no reason to adjust the ratio for the parties’ indirect contributions, which the Judge found to be 60:40 in W’s favour. H had exaggerated his role as a spouse and father. He was not quite the involved and supportive person he had portrayed himself to be. His allegation about W’s callousness in abducting the son was also an exaggeration. There was also some merit in W’s argument that he was spending time with girlfriends (at [105]–[109]).17 The Judge made a further adjustment to the final ratio of division based on the parties’ short marriage. In so doing, the Judge gave more weight to the parties’ direct contributions than to the indirect contributions. However, as the short marriage had been taken into account in considering the parties’ indirect contributions, the court did not take the short marriage into account a second time in considering whether to give more weight to the collective direct contributions than to the collective indirect contributions (at [112]–[115]).18 The Judge made a further 2% adjustment to the average ratio because of H’s expenditure on one of his girlfriends. The court declined to make such an adjustment. The court had taken into account the money which H spent on that girlfriend, or other girlfriends too, in the assessment of H’s indirect contribution, rather than considering them separately (at [117]).19 In the circumstances, the average ratio of division was 66.5:33.5 in H’s favour (at [118]).20 The total revised value of the matrimonial assets was S$2,443,942.18. With the average ratio of 66.5:33.5, H was entitled to S$1,625,221.55, and W was entitled to S$818,720.63. As W already had assets of S$233,430.65 in her name, she was entitled to a further S$585,289.98 from H (at [119]–[120]).Maintenance for the child21 The Judge ordered H to pay 60% of the child’s expenses of S$5,000, as monthly child maintenance, ie, S$3,000 per month. The Judge declined to order maintenance for the child to apply retrospectively to December 2017, which was the time when W applied for maintenance in a separate application. H appealed against the quantum of maintenance, while W appealed asking for backdated maintenance (at [121]–[124]).22 The court reduced the child’s monthly expenses to S$4,500, to account for W’s inflated claim for rent. W claimed that she had to pay rent of S$2,800 per month to her parents, and included this sum in her claim for maintenance for the child. However, the court viewed W’s claim in this regard as a self-serving exercise. No tenancy agreement was produced. By all accounts, W’s parents were supportive of her. It was unlikely that they would view her return on a commercial basis and charge her rent. As the Judge did not attribute a specific sum for the son’s share of the rental expense, the court inferred a sum of S$500 per month and reduced the monthly expenses from S$5,000 to S$4,500 per month (at [131]–[132]).23 There was no reason to vary the Judge’s order that H pay 60% of the child’s maintenance. H argued that it should be nil as each party should bear the expenses of the child when the child is with that party. But there was no authority for such a broad proposition. The usual practice was that where the parties both earn income and the wife has care and control of the child, the husband would still be ordered to bear a portion of the child’s expenses paid by the wife. This is so even where, as is common, the husband has some weekend access and also weekday access to the child. Accordingly, H was made to bear 60% of S$4,500 per month, ie, S$2,700 (at [133]–[138]).24 The court disagreed with the Judge’s decision not to order backdated maintenance. The starting premise was that it was the joint responsibility of both parents to maintain their child. This responsibility arose when the child was born and applied regardless of any application by W for maintenance for the child. On certain occasions, a court may order maintenance to be paid from the date the decision is made. But there was in principle no reason why maintenance should not start from an earlier date. The concern of the court about adopting an earlier date is that it may be tantamount to a sudden imposition of an onerous burden on the husband when arrears of maintenance arise from a retrospective order. However, the husband must know all along that he has an obligation to pay maintenance (unless his financial circumstances are such that he simply cannot afford to do so). Further, if the order is for the husband to pay a periodic sum which is higher than what he had been paying, he would have had the benefit of not paying the difference in the meantime (at [139]–[144]).25 In principle, where a husband had the financial capacity to pay retrospective maintenance, there was less reason to adopt a later date for ordering maintenance. It is generally unfair to a wife to deny the claim for maintenance during the interim between the time she applied for maintenance and the time when the decision is made. It is not a question of whether she can cope or can afford to pay the expenses in the interim. After all, if a husband too can afford to pay, there is no reason why a wife should bear the burden alone during the interim (at [145]).26 In the circumstances, the court ordered H to pay backdated maintenance to take effect from December 2017. Certain adjustments were made to account for certain payments that H had made in the interim. The total sum H had to pay W in backdated and outstanding arrears in maintenance was S$53,600 (at [146]–[147]).Conclusion27 Both appeals were allowed to the extent stated above. The remaining aspects of the parties’ appeals were dismissed. The parties were ordered to bear their own costs of the appeals (at [148]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
