
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 February 2022Case summarySIC/OS 1/2021 (Summons No 5567 of 2020) CHY and another v CIA [2022] SGHC(I) 3--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Vivian Ramsey IJ):Outcome: The SICC dismissed the application to set aside an ICC arbitral award on the ground that the award is in conflict with the public policy of Singapore and struck out the plaintiffs’ expert evidence in Indian law. Background 1 The plaintiffs, CHY and CHZ, were the respondents in the underlying arbitration (the “Arbitration”) and sought to set aside a final award dated 19 June 2020 made under the auspices of the International Chamber of Commerce (the “Award”). The defendant, CIA, was the claimant in the Arbitration. In the Award, the majority of the arbitral tribunal (the “Tribunal”) found in favour of the defendant and made orders requiring the plaintiffs to pay damages to the defendant and, on payment, for the defendant to transfer its shares in the second plaintiff to the first plaintiff or a party specified by the first plaintiff.  2 The plaintiffs filed the setting-aside application (the “Application”) under Art 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Model Law on the basis that the Award is in conflict with the public policy of Singapore. The defendant also applied to strike out the plaintiffs’ expert evidence in Indian law. Facts3 The plaintiffs were companies incorporated under the laws of India and the first plaintiff was a majority shareholder in the second plaintiff since around 2009. The defendant was an investment holding company incorporated under the laws of Mauritius. The defendant was part of a larger investment group, X Co, and was incorporated for the purposes of completing X Co’s minority investment in the second plaintiff.  4 In or around 2010, the defendant agreed to invest in the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs and the defendants (the “Parties”) entered into a number of agreements pursuant to which the defendant acquired a total of 1,340,000 shares in the second plaintiff. These agreements included a Shareholders Agreement (the “SHA”) and a Letter of Agreement between the first plaintiff and the defendant (the “Letter Agreement”). 5 Clause 10.1 of the SHA obliged the plaintiffs to list the second plaintiff on the Bombay Stock Exchange (“BSE”) or the National Stock Exchange (“NSE”) or to make a public offer of the second plaintiff’s shares on those exchanges by 30 June 2012. Clause 11.1 of the SHA listed various events, the occurrence of which would give rise to the defendant’s right (the “Put Right”) under cl 11.2 to “require [the first plaintiff], if legally able or otherwise to arrange a third party, to purchase, at the option of [the defendant], all or a portion of [the defendant’s shares in the second plaintiff]” at the “Put Price” (ie, the “Put Option”). One such event was if the plaintiffs failed to comply with cl 10.1 of the SHA. 6 By 30 June 2012, the second plaintiff’s shares had not been listed on the BSE or NSE and no public offer had been made for the sale of the shares on the said exchanges. Although the defendant’s right to exercise the Put Option arose, it did not exercise the right. The plaintiffs and the defendant attempted to negotiate the defendant’s exit from its shareholding in the second plaintiff by having the first plaintiff re-acquire the shares. However, this ultimately did not happen.7 Subsequently, the defendant informed the first plaintiff that it would be exercising the Put Option by way of a notice (the “Put Notice”). The first plaintiff responded that it would not recognise or act on the Put Notice for various reasons, including that the Put Option was contrary to Indian law.8 The dispute culminated in the Arbitration. The Tribunal held that the first plaintiff had wrongfully challenged the validity and enforceability of the Put Option and wrongfully refused and/or failed to complete the acquisition of the Put Shares. The dissenting member of the Tribunal found that the Put Option was invalid and unenforceable under regulations made under India’s Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999 (the “FEMA Regulations”).The Court’s judgment 9 The plaintiffs’ application to set aside the Award under Art 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Model Law was dismissed (at [79]) for the following reasons. 10 First, on an application to set aside an award under Art 34(2)(b)(ii), the Court may reopen findings of law but, in the absence of fraud and other vitiating factors, the Court cannot reopen findings of fact made by the arbitral tribunal (at [36]). 11 In this case, the relevant findings were findings of fact (at [40]). The relevant agreements were governed by Indian law and not by Singapore law. The findings of facts and findings of Indian law made by the Tribunal were all findings of fact and cannot be opened up on this Application (at [44]). On those findings of fact and Indian law, the Tribunal held that the terms of the SHA and the Letter Agreement did not give rise to a violation of the FEMA Regulations. The failure on the part of the plaintiffs to procure a third party purchaser and their repudiation of their obligation to do so constitutes a clear breach with consequences as to damages. Accordingly, the Court cannot reopen those findings of fact and there was no basis on which the plaintiffs can challenge the Award on the basis that the terms of the SHA and Letter Agreement were a violation of FEMA Regulations so that enforcement of an illegal contract would be in conflict with the public policy of Singapore (at [50]–[51]). 12 Second, the plaintiffs’ submission that the award of damages requiring them to pay the Put Price as damages and, upon receipt, to direct a transfer of shares was effectively payment of assured returns and would be a breach of the FEMA Regulations and unlawful under Indian law again seeks to open up the findings of fact by the Tribunal under Indian law. That analysis requires, first, consideration of whether in the Arbitration, the plaintiffs raised the point that an award by the Tribunal of damages amounting to the Put Price and the transfer of shares would be contrary to FEMA (at [52]–[53]). During the Arbitration, the plaintiffs made it clear that on the payment of damages in favour of the defendant, there would be a transfer of shares as part of the Award and did not object that such an award would be contrary to the FEMA Regulations. The plaintiffs cannot therefore open up that finding which proceeded on the basis that there was no objection (at [53]–[54]). If, in fact, they had objected, the decision of the Tribunal to the contrary would have been a finding of fact which could not be opened up on this Application (at [55]). 13 It became clear that the plaintiffs’ complaint was essentially that the Tribunal had assessed damages wrongly and had not taken mitigation into account. In answer to a question, the plaintiffs confirmed that if the Tribunal had calculated damages differently, they would have had no complaint. This demonstrated that the plaintiffs were in fact challenging the Award on findings of fact including Indian law by seeking to open up the way in which the Tribunal had assessed damages and/or had dealt with mitigation (at [62]). As the award of damages by the Tribunal was made on the basis of submissions of Indian law, this Court cannot open up such findings of facts (at [63]). 14 The plaintiff’s challenge to the Award on the basis that in arriving at its award of damages, the Tribunal ignored the requirement of proof of loss for the grant of damages under s 73 of the Indian Contract Act 1872 failed because it was also a finding of fact which cannot be opened up (at [66]–[68]).15 Third, even if the Court could review the Tribunal’s findings on Indian law and came to a contrary view on the findings, there was no palpable and indisputable illegality. This would still not have engaged the public policy of Singapore so that the Award would have been set aside under Art 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Model Law (at [69]–[76]). 16 The defendant’s application to strike out the plaintiffs’ expert evidence on Indian law was allowed. Given that it was not appropriate for the Court to open up findings of the Tribunal on Indian law, the opinions on Indian law were irrelevant (at [77]–[79]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
