
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE7 February 2022Case summaryBCBC Singapore Pte Ltd and another v PT Bayan Resources TBK and another [2022] SGHC(I) 2--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Quentin Loh JAD, Vivian Ramsey IJ and Anselmo Reyes IJ):Outcome: The SICC held that a joint venture party was not entitled to recover damages for breach of contract by the other joint venture party. Background1 The second plaintiff (“BCBC”) holds the exclusive worldwide licence of a technology for the upgrading of sub-bituminous coal known as the “BCB Process”.  The first plaintiff (“BCBCS”) is a Singapore-incorporated company.  Both BCBC and BCBCS are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of White Energy Company Ltd (“WEC”), a public-listed company incorporated in Australia. 2 The first defendant (“BR”) is a public-listed company incorporated in Indonesia.  It owns subsidiaries operating sub-bituminous coal mines in Tabang, Indonesia.  The second defendant (“BI”) is a Singapore-incorporated company that is an associate of BR. 3 BCBCS and BR were parties to a joint venture to construct and commission a plant in Tabang, Indonesia (“the Tabang Plant”) to exploit the BCB Process to upgrade sub-bituminous coal produced by the BR’s subsidiaries into higher value coal briquettes for commercial sale.  Their joint venture vehicle was an Indonesian-incorporated company, KSC.  However, after delays and cost overruns, BCBCS’s and BR’s relationship deteriorated and led to the commencement of proceedings by the plaintiffs against the defendants. 4 In earlier tranches of these proceedings, the SICC had held that: (a) the joint venture came to an end on 2 March 2012; and (b) BR had acted in breach of its joint venture obligations, including the obligation to ensure that it its subsidiaries supplied coal to KSC in the course of the joint venture.  The present tranche, to which this judgment relates, concerns BCBCS’s entitlement to damages (and, if so, the quantum of such damages) as a result of BR’s breaches. 5 BCBCS claimed damages under two heads.  First, it sought to recover wasted expenditure of around US$91m, comprising the sum of various loans which it had extended to KSC.  These loans had been extended by BCBCS to KSC pursuant to shareholder loan agreements, to which BR had also been a party.  Second, it sought to recover damages for the loss of a chance to increase the production capacity of the Tabang Plant to at least 3 million metric tonnes per annum (“MTPA”), something it said parties would have agreed to embark upon once the Tabang Plant achieved production capacity of 1 MTPA (or “nameplate capacity”). 6 BR argued that BCBCS is not entitled to damages, for various reasons.  First, BR argued that BCBCS’s claims for damages for its wasted expenditure and damages for the loss of a chance were irrecoverable as a matter of law.  Second, BR argued that BCBCS would not have recovered any wasted expenditure even if BR had not breached its joint venture obligations.  Third, it says that BCBCS’s loss of a chance claim should fail because there had been no agreement between the parties to expand the capacity of the Tabang Plant to 3 MTPA. 7 There were three main issues presented for the SICC’s determination: (a) first, whether BCBCS’s claims were indeed barred as a matter of law; (b) second, whether BCBCS would have recovered its wasted expenditure if BR had not acted in breach of its joint venture obligations; (c) third, whether BCBCS has established its claim for the loss of a chance to profit from the expansion of the Tabang Plant’s capacity to 3 MTPA. Each of the main issues involved a number of sub-issues. For example, BR put up various sub-issues as to why BCBCS’s claims would be barred as a matter of law: (a) BCBCS’s claimed losses were too remote; (b) the recovery of these losses was barred by the rule against reflective loss; (c) BCBCS’s claimed losses in the form of monies extended to KSC under various shareholder loans cannot be recouped since loans cannot be recouped as a form of wasted expenditure as a matter of law; and (d) BCBCS was not entitled to claim damages for both wasted expenditure and loss of a chance. The SICC’s decision 8 The SICC dismissed BCBCS’s claims for its wasted expenditure and for its loss of a chance to profit from the increase the production capacity of the Tabang Plant to at least 3 million MTPA. 9 The SICC rejected all of BR’s contentions and held that BCBCS’s claims were not barred as a matter of law.  It considered that BCBCS’s claimed losses were not too remote because a reasonable person in BR’s position at the time of entering into the joint venture would have considered BCBCS’s financial injections to be foreseeable as a likely consequence that it ought to be liable for.  The SICC rejected BR’s far-reaching contention that loans to a joint venture company do not constitute recoverable expenditure, as this was unsupported by authority.  The SICC considered that BCBCS’s claimed losses was not barred by the rule against reflective loss as these losses were not claimed by BCBCS in its capacity as a shareholder of KSC.  Finally, it considered that BCBS was entitled to maintain both its claims for wasted expenditure and loss of a chance as there is no risk of double recovery: at [31] to [69]. 10 However, on examining the facts, the SICC held that BCBCS would not have recovered its wasted expenditure even if BR had not breached its joint venture obligations. Accordingly, BCBCS was not entitled to damages in respect of its wasted expenditure: at [194] to [195]. 11 The SICC examined the evidence on the modifications being carried out to the Tabang Plant and found that the expert evidence showed that contrary to the allegations of BR, the Tabang Plant could have achieved nameplate capacity by June 2012 but for the wrongful repudiation of the joint venture by BR.  However, even if the Tabang Plant had proceeded to commercial production, BCBCS’s own expert’s model showed that KSC would not have a positive cash flow until 2028, and interest due on the shareholder loans would therefore only have been repaid from 2028 onwards and the principal amount due under the Priority Loan Funding Agreement would only begin to be paid in 2037. The SICC found that BR’s subsidiaries, Bara and FSP, would only be under an obligation to supply coal to KSC up to 7 April 2028 and 21 July 2025 respectively, when Bara and FSP’s coal concessions expired: at [70] to [144], [147] and [157] to [160]. 12 BR would have been entitled to put KSC into liquidation well before KSC generated sufficient cash flow to enable BCBCS to recoup its wasted expenditure.  Therefore, as at the time of BR’s breaches of its joint venture obligations, the joint venture would never have had sufficient cash flow to enable BCBCS to recoup its wasted expenditure on the joint venture: at [145] to [154]. 13 The SICC also considered that, even if BR did not liquidate KSC, the putative cash flow which BCBCS would have obtained from the joint venture would not have covered its wasted expenditure given the evidence of BCBCS’s own expert that it would not be until 2043 that BCBS could recoup its wasted expenditure on the joint venture; that would have been well after the expiry of BR’s coal supply obligation. The SICC also held that it would have been reasonable for BR to decide, at some point of time before 2028, that it was not prepared to “fund” KSC further by postponing KSC’s payment of the debts it owned until 2037, the earliest moment when any positive return on the joint venture might have been expected. BR made clear at the November 2011 Board Meeting that it wished to exit the joint venture by December 2011, principally because it no longer made commercial sense for BR to continue with the joint venture. At that point in time, five and a half years had passed since the incorporation of KSC, the parties had periodically exceeded agreed caps on expenditure and the Tabang Plant was still unable to achieve 1 MTPA: at [153], [155] to [192] and [211].  14 The SICC also held that BCBCS’s loss of a chance claim must fail.  The chance of expanding the Tabang Plant’s capacity to 3 MTPA, which BCBCS says it lost as a result of BR’s breaches, did not constitute a compensable head of damage as a matter of law because the provision of such a chance was never an object of BR’s duties under the joint venture.  This was because there was no obligation on the part of BR to proceed with the expansion of the Tabang Plant’s capacity to 3 MTPA. The joint venture deed only recorded the parties’ intention (but not agreement) to proceed with such an expansion: at [196] to [199]. 15 The SICC also considered that the loss of a chance doctrine was inapplicable in this case because any chance of expanding the Tabang Plant’s capacity to 3 MTPA was contingent on BR’s actions rather than the actions of an independent third-party.  Claims for loss of a chance could only arise where the contingency, on which the lost chance depends, is a matter of third-party discretion: at [200] to [207]. 16 In any case, the SICC considered that BCBCS has failed to prove its loss of a chance to profit from the Tabang Plant’s increased capacity.  That was because BR would not have been on board with any plan to expand the Tabang Plant’s capacity to 3 MTPA.  Furthermore, BCBCS would also not have secured the requisite funding for the expansion of the Tabang Plant’s capacity.  The cessation of BR’s coal supply obligations by 7 April 2028 also meant that issues would have arisen with the availability of coal supplies so that the expansion of the Tabang Plant would not have proceeded: at [208] to [219]. Conclusion17 For the foregoing reasons, the SICC held that BCBCS was not entitled to recover damages for its wasted expenditure and damages for the loss of a chance to expand the Tabang Plant’s capacity to 3 MTPA: at [221]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. 
