
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE3 February 2022Case summaryPOA Recovery Pte Ltd v Yau Kwok Seng and others and another appeal [2022] SGHC(A) 2 Civil Appeals Nos 26 and 34 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Belinda Ang Saw Ean JAD (delivering the judgment of the court):Outcome: Appellate Division of the High Court finds that special purpose vehicle has standing to sue on behalf of 1,102 investors, but dismisses appeal and concludes that investors were not defrauded via a Ponzi scheme.Introduction and background1 This case involved about 4,000 investors who participated in investments relating to crude oil produced in Alberta, Canada from September 2012 until the ventures ended in October 2015. 1,102 of those investors (“the Investors”) claimed to be victims of an investment fraud that was perpetrated by the respondents and their counterparts in Canada. Their accusation was that the investments were part of a Ponzi scheme. 2 The Investors, who claimed to have been defrauded of around CAD130m, collectively sought recourse through the appellant in AD/CA 26/2021 (“AD 26”), POA Recovery Pte Ltd (“POA Recovery”), a Singapore-incorporated private limited company with an issued share capital of S$1. The sole purpose of POA Recovery’s incorporation was to pursue the Investors’ claims. The individual Investors’ claims were said to be assigned to POA Recovery by way of formal agreements (“the Assignment Agreements”).3 According to POA Recovery, the crude oil investment (“the Scheme”) were supposed to involve investors purchasing physical barrels of crude oil that would be resold for profit on their behalf by an entity known as Proven Oil Asia Ltd (“POA”). POA was a subsidiary of Conserve Oil Group Inc (“COGI”), which operated the oil and gas properties from which the crude oil would be purchased by the Investors. The Investors were promised returns after POA resold the crude oil at a profit. The Scheme had the key features of (a) the investors purchasing oil, (b) profit for investors upon resale of oil by POA, and (c) security for the investors’ investment capital. POA Recovery alleged that the respondents fraudulently misrepresented that the investments did bear these three features, when in fact, the investments did not.4 The respondents in AD 26 and AD/CA 34/2021 (“AD 34”), who were marketers of the investments, denied making any fraudulent misrepresentation and further deny complicity with any Canadian party in the alleged fraud. Yau Kwok Seng (“Yau”), the first respondent, is the sole shareholder and director of the second and third respondents, Capital Asia Group Pte Ltd (“CAG”) and Capital Asia Group Oil Management Pte Ltd (“CAGOM”). Yau was nominated by POA as the “key employee” involved in the marketing of the investments. 5 CAG was appointed by POA as the exclusive marketing agent of the investments. It conducted the marketing of the investments in Asia with the assistance of agents and sub-agents. CAG appointed entities as sales agents in Malaysia and Hong Kong respectively. These entities, in turn, appointed associate marketing companies (“AMCs”) within their respective regions. CAG also enlisted sub-agents from the AMCs to assist in marketing of the investments. Joseph Jeremy Kachu Li (“Li”) and Thomas C C Luong (“Luong”), the appellants in AD 34, were two such sub-agents. These sub-agents were investors who also played a role in marketing so that they too could earn a portion of the commissions that POA paid. Some of these investors, including Li and Luong, were invited to POA and COGI installations in Alberta, Canada to see the rigs and production lines. They returned satisfied with what they had seen. 6 A prospective investor who wished to invest would be asked to sign a Buyer’s Purchase Order (“BPO”). CAG earned a commission from POA for each BPO procured. The sub-agents who played a role in marketing would also earn a portion of the commissions that POA paid.7 CAGOM was incorporated in 2012. It was set up to hold the leasehold security that was provided by POA in respect of the crude oil investments. CAGOM owned 100% of the shares in Capital Asia Group Oil Management Ltd (“CAGOM Canada”), a Canadian company that was initially used to hold the security provided by POA in respect of the investments.Events leading up to the commencement of the action8 POA was unable to pay the promised investment returns as well as return the investment capital to the Investors in respect of a number of projects. This was due to POA and COGI getting into financial difficulties in 2015 because of, allegedly, the drastic fall in the price of oil world-wide. COGI subsequently went into receivership. The same receivers applied to put POA under receivership but this was successfully resisted. POA then appointed a new management team, with CAGOM Canada successfully taking over 99% of the shares in POA and leaving COGI with 1%.9 In June 2016, the POA management team met with investors to discuss recovery of their investments, leading to the formation of the “June Agreement”. Under the June Agreement, the Investors were given shares in CAGOM Canada in proportion to the outstanding money due to them under the crude oil investments. The investors who signed the agreement agreed to forgo their rights under the original contracts governing their purchase of crude oil from POA. They accepted that their recourse would lie in their rights as shareholders of CAGOM Canada instead. In return, the investors would receive dividends from POA, which was by then 99% owned by CAGOM Canada. Since CAGOM Canada was the 99% shareholder of POA, profits from POA’s restructuring, if successful, would be distributed as dividends to the signatories on a pro rata basis. 85% of the Investors signed the June Agreement. The remaining 15% had their rights held on trust for them. Any disposal of POA’s assets required the approval of 60% of its shareholders.10 In April 2017, the management and control of CAGOM Canada was under a new management committee known as the “Interim Advisory Board”. The new committee included Yau, Luong, Li, and four other Investors. Li was the chairman. In November 2017, the members of the Interim Advisory Board were appointed as full directors of CAGOM Canada and formed CAGOM Canada’s “Executive Board”. After gaining control of CAGOM Canada, Li, Luong and several other members of the Interim Advisory Board sold off certain valuable assets of POA without the requisite shareholder approval. They then proceeded to inform CAGOM Canada shareholders that they were getting a final distribution of 1% of the sale proceeds.Procedural history and decision below11 POA Recovery brought High Court Suit No 578 of 2018 against the respondents, seeking to recover the Investors’ alleged losses amounting to about CAD130m. Its primary case was that the respondents had committed fraud and/or made fraudulent misrepresentations to the Investors. It also pleaded several other causes of action – negligence, breach of fiduciary duty and/or trust, dishonest assistance and unlawful means conspiracy.12 The respondents brought a third-party action that joined 68 individuals as third parties. 66 of the third parties were joined in the suit on the ground that they were sales agents appointed by AMCs who over-promised or misrepresented the investments to the other Investors. The respondents had a separate case against the remaining two individuals, Li and Luong, namely that when the investments failed, Li and Luong financially mismanaged CAGOM Canada and POA. The respondents sought contribution and/or indemnity from Li and Luong towards any damages that the respondents might have been ordered to pay.13 The judge below (“the Judge”) dismissed POA Recovery’s claim on the basis of its lack of standing, specifically that the assignments of the Investors’ claims to POA Recovery were void for being contrary to the doctrine of maintenance. After concluding that POA Recovery did not have locus standi to sue, the Judge went on to examine the purported causes of action. The Judge concluded, on the facts, that POA Recovery’s claims lacked merit.14 As the action was dismissed, the Judge made no orders, apart from costs orders. The Judge nevertheless observed that Li and Luong may have had “more to answer for than the [other third parties to the suit]”.15 In AD 26, POA Recovery appealed against the Judge’s dismissal of the suit. In AD 34, Li and Luong appealed against the Judge’s observations on their mismanagement of CAGOM Canada and POA.The Court’s judgment in AD/CA 26/2021POA Recovery’s pleadings16 POA Recovery inadequately pleaded its causes of action in negligence and breach of fiduciary duty and/or trust. POA Recovery amalgamated the factual bases of its claims. That approach may not be objectionable if done properly. But here, facts that constituted the specific elements to make up the individual causes of action were not particularised at all (at [62]–[67]).17 Dishonest assistance and conspiracy were also not adequately pleaded. While the causes of action were expressly spelled out, nothing in the Statement of Claim alluded clearly to the facts in support of the elements of dishonest assistance or conspiracy. POA Recovery never explained how, in the context of the specific transactions in question, there could have been “assistance” that was “dishonest”; nor did it identify the alleged co-conspirators, and simply averred that the respondents had conspired with “others yet unknown”. Having failed to do so, the state of POA Recovery’s pleadings was self-evidently prejudicial to the respondents (at [68]–[71]).18 For these reasons, the court found that POA Recovery had not adequately pleaded its causes of action apart from fraud and fraudulent misrepresentation (at [72]).POA Recovery’s legal standing19 Of the 1,102 Investors, 143 had executed deeds of assignment before the date of POA Recovery’s Writ of Summons. These 143 deeds were included in the Statement of Claim on the date of Writ. The remaining 959 Investors’ deeds of assignment were only included in the Statement of Claim after the date of Writ, via an amendment. Of these 959 deeds, 889 were also signed after the date of Writ (at [76] and [77]).20 All 1,102 deeds of assignment were allowed into evidence, notwithstanding that 889 of the deeds were signed after the date of Writ. The court was bound by a Court of Appeal precedent which stated that standalone retrospective assignments of causes of action after the date of commencement of a suit are valid (at [78]–[83]).21 The issue that arose for consideration was whether the assignments were affected by maintenance or champerty and were therefore void as contrary to public policy or otherwise illegal. In the present case, the rules on maintenance and champerty were not violated. The law on maintenance and champerty were principles of public policy designed to protect the purity of justice and the interest of vulnerable litigants. These fundamental considerations were not per se violated by the Investors’ use of a special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) structure, without more. There was no accompanying element of impropriety, because there was no surreptitious third-party funder controlling proceedings, or any third-party wagering on the litigation. POA Recovery had always been controlled and funded by the Investors. POA Recovery would not itself have received any share in the proceeds of the litigation, and there was no evidence of any third-party financing or funding (at [85]–[90]).22 The other concern was that POA Recovery, as a shell company with a minimum paid up capital, could easily cost-proof itself. However, this concern was more apparent than real. POA Recovery had provided substantial security for costs of about S$450,000. Beyond the security furnished, the respondents did not file any application for further security for costs (at [91]–[93]).23 In any event, even if the Investors’ use of the SPV structure was considered champertous, POA Recovery would have availed itself of one of the established exceptions under law: namely, POA Recovery had a genuine commercial interest. POA Recovery’s sole purpose was as a convenient tool to prosecute the Investors’ claims – this manifested the genuine commercial interest. Accordingly, POA Recovery had locus standi to bring the present claim (at [95]–[100]).POA Recovery’s claim24 POA Recovery alleged that the respondents had made fraudulent misrepresentations to the Investors, and that the respondents were complicit in fraud with POA and COGI. The nub of POA Recovery’s case was that the respondents had fraudulently represented the crude oil investments as bearing the three key features of oil, profits and security. According to POA Recovery, the investments did not in fact bear these features. Also critical was whether, if the investments did not bear the three features, the respondents were privy to this, ie, whether the respondents were complicit in any fraud perpetrated by POA and COGI (at [110]).25 The investments did bear the three key features of oil, profits and security. On the first key feature, there was evidence that COGI was a legitimate oil producing company that operated oil and gas assets in Alberta, Canada. This was substantiated by key documents such as oil allocation documents, COGI’s company profile, contracts with oil giants, and third-party valuations and audits from entities such as the Government of Alberta, renowned oil experts and reputable accounting firms. These showed that COGI and POA did in fact allocate barrels of crude oil to investors upon purchase (at [121]–[124]).26 Investors also did receive profits (the second key feature) generated from the resale of oil. POA Recovery argued in this respect that it was impermissible for investors’ monies to be used for oil and gas asset acquisition, and for payment of other investors’ profits; investors’ funds had to be used solely for the purchase of crude oil. But the contractual structure of the BPOs did not prohibit the use of investors’ funds in this manner. While the evidence suggested that profits for investors were paid out partly from the resale of oil, and partly using new investors’ moneys, this was permissible and not fraudulent. How POA chose to make payment of the exit amounts was an internal accounting arrangement. In so far as POA/COGI fulfilled its end of the bargain and provided the Investors with profits, and in so far as there were genuine sales of oil, it did not matter that the revenue from investors was utilised as working capital. Using new investors’ funds to pay old investors would be a problem if an entire “business” scheme was built on solely or predominantly on such circular fund movements. But that was not the case here. There were genuine and significant oil transactions (at [128]–[145]).27 The investors also had valid security (the third key feature) for their investments, until February 2016 when certain securities were discharged without authority. Following the discharges, there was insufficient security. But this was the doing of COGI’s and POA’s officers in Canada, not the respondents. There was evidence that in the discharge of a certain security, Yau’s signature had been forged. There was also evidence that COGI’s and POA’s officers kept Yau in the dark when the various securities were discharged, and only informed him after the fact. Importantly, in the face of these events, Yau maintained an honest disposition, and demanded that the investors be protected and secured. Yau’s insistence that the investors’ security be preserved was inconsistent with someone who was defrauding investors (at [150]–[154] and [178]–[196]).28 For the sake of argument, even assuming that COGI and POA were fraudulent throughout the duration of the alleged Scheme, Yau and the respondents were not complicit in this. The respondents were POA’s marketing agents. They did not participate in the crude oil production and resale business – that was entirely POA’s and COGI’s domain. The respondents merely marketed the investments for a commission. The same may be said as regards POA and COGI’s allegedly wrongful use of investors’ moneys – it was not the respondents’ responsibility as marketing agents to oversee how POA and COGI utilised the funds they received. The respondents’ role was to market the investments, and nothing suggested that they would have been privy to matters that were essentially in the remit of COGI’s higher management. Further, the documentary evidence showed that Yau and the respondents constantly sought to verify the legitimacy of the oil purchases, and offered this verified information to investors. There was no evidence that Yau and the respondents deliberately suppressed information to the detriment of investors (at [157]–[166]).29 When things took a turn for the worse in October 2015, and COGI was put under receivership, the respondents’ roles shifted from being marketers of the investments, to being involved in viably resuscitating the investments. Even at this juncture, there was nothing to suggest that the respondents were fraudulent. They did not suppress material information from the investors. In fact, the contemporaneous correspondence showed that Yau acted at all times with an honest disposition, and that he was trying to make good the bad situation that precipitated from COGI’s receivership. Importantly, Yau appointed personnel to investigate POA’s and COGI’s parlous predicament and to seek solutions. It was speculative to suggest that Yau in such an arrangement was simply seeking to conceal the alleged fraud and his complicity (at [167]–[177]).30 Finally, the respondents never guaranteed returns to the Investors. They also never misrepresented the risk profile of the investments, contrary to what POA Recovery alleged. The respondents had represented, correctly, that COGI’s business did comprise sales of oil and gas. While investors’ moneys were used to improve COGI’s oil and gas assets, this did not mean that the investment was not one in crude oil. This also did not increase the risk profile of the investments. The investments in oil barrels, as represented, also bore risk and were subject to market fluctuations in oil barrel prices (at [198]–[201]).31 Based on the above, the court dismissed POA Recovery’s appeal in AD 26 (at [202]).The Court’s judgment in AD/CA 34/202132 In AD 34, Li and Luong challenged the Judge’s factual findings that they had mismanaged CAGOM Canada in the wake of COGI’s receivership, and that such mismanagement led to lower recovery for the Investors in the wake of the collapse of the investments (at [203]).33 There was no need to turn to the merits of AD 34. The Judge made no orders in AD 34 apart from costs orders, in the light of his dismissal of the suit. AD 34 was contingent on AD 26 being brought in the first place. AD 34 only fell to be considered if AD 26 was successful. That is, because AD 26 had been filed, there existed a risk that the respondents would be found liable for fraud on appeal. If found liable, the respondents might have re-opened their case against Li and Luong to seek contribution. Li and Luong thus, conceivably, pre-emptively filed AD 34 in order to challenge the Judge’s factual findings, so that in the event the respondents were found liable on appeal, they (Li and Luong) would not subsequently be found liable for contribution (at [204]).34 As AD 26 was dismissed, the status quo remained, and the respondents bore no liability. Consequently, the question of Li and Luong’s contribution did not even arise. On this basis, AD 34 was dismissed. The court clarified that notwithstanding the Judge’s observations on Li and Luong’s mismanagement of CAGOM Canada, no res judicata existed, because the Judge did not adjudicate on the merits of the respondents’ contribution claim. It was thus open to Li and Luong to challenge the Judge’s observations if a subsequent suit was brought against them (at [205]–[207]).Conclusion35 Both appeals were dismissed. POA Recovery was to bear the costs of AD 26. Li and Luong were to, jointly and severally as co-appellants, bear the costs of AD 34 (at [208] and [209]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
