
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE19 January 2022Case summaryAhmed Salim v Public Prosecutor  [2022] SGCA  6 Criminal Appeal No 41 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA dismissed the appeal against conviction on murder charge.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court set out its views on when the defence of diminished responsibility may be established where there is a premeditated plan to kill: at [51]–[52].Introduction1 This was an appeal against the conviction of the appellant on a charge of murder under s 300(a) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”).Background2 The appellant and the deceased, one Nurhidayati Bt Wartono Surata (“Yati”), had been in an intimate relationship from around May 2012. In November 2017, they decided to get married. However, sometime in May or June 2018, Yati started seeing someone else. Although they reconciled and continued dating around July or August 2018, Yati began seeing another person by late October and early November 2018. 3 On 9 December 2018, Yati admitted to the appellant that she had a new boyfriend. The appellant was so upset that he decided that he would kill Yati by strangling her with a rope. He arranged to meet Yati on 23 December 2018 at a hotel (“the Hotel”), where they would usually meet, but did not follow through with the plan as Yati convinced him that they would continue dating. But Yati called him later that evening and told him that she wanted to end their relationship. The appellant decided to kill her the next time they met.4 The appellant arranged to meet Yati again on 30 December 2018 at the Hotel. He threatened to kill her by circling a bath towel around her neck, and warned her to break off her relationship with her new boyfriend. Yati refused. The appellant then tightened the towel. After he saw blood flowing out of one of Yati’s ears, he realized that Yati would call the police if he let go and she survived. He decided to kill her by pulling the towel tighter. He then removed the towel, and took out the rope he brought and circled it around her neck two or three times to ensure that she was dead. To make sure she was dead, he placed a towel over her face and used his hand to press the towel down around the area of her mouth and nose, until Yati’s face became discoloured.5 The appellant was convicted in the High Court of one count of murder under s 300(a) of the PC and sentenced to death under s 302(1) of the PC.Decision on appeal6 The Court of Appeal found that the appellant had the intention to kill, as the appellant had planned the murder beforehand. He brought along the rope as his chosen murder weapon, selected the Hotel as the meeting place, withdrew the money from his bank account that morning to remit it to his family in Bangladesh. He executed his plan systematically, indicative of the intent of kill (at [21]). 7 The court rejected the appellant’s partial defence of provocation, finding that Yati did not utter certain humiliating words as claimed by the appellant. Further, this was not mentioned in the appellant’s police statements, or his statements to the IMH psychiatrist, Dr Cheok (at [23]). 8 The court considered whether the appellant could establish the third element of the partial defence of diminished responsibility, that his adjustment disorder had substantially impaired his mental responsibility. It was not disputed that the first two elements of the defence were satisfied, as the appellant was suffering from adjustment disorder, and adjustment order is a recognised mental disorder (at [15]).  9 The court observed that where an accused person carries out a premeditated plan to kill, his capacity to understand events is typically not substantially impaired, as he must be able to comprehend what he is doing in order to execute the premeditated plan(at [36]). It is also more difficult for the accused person to show that his self-control was substantially impaired, because there would be a considerable period of time between the premeditation and execution, which allows the accused to regain self-control (at [37]).10 Nonetheless, the court observed that an accused person who commits a premeditated murder may avail himself of the defence of diminished responsibility by showing that first, --but for his abnormality of mind, he would not have made that decision; and second, he had no realistic moment of rationality and self-control that would have enabled him to resile from that intention or plan (at [51]–[52]).11 On the facts, the court rejected that the appellant’s adjustment disorder had substantially impaired his mental responsibility. He was rational, had self-control, and was fully able to comprehend events at the critical moment when he decided to kill Yati. His statements to the police and to Dr Cheok showed that the acts of killing were motivated by the appellant’s logical fear that Yati would report him to the police for assaulting her (at [58]–[59]). Dr Cheok corroborated that the appellant did not lose self-control, nor his judgment of what was right or wrong. Dr Cheok based his view on the facts that the plan to kill was pre-meditated, the appellant came up with a decision tree to kill, and exhibited self-control on the day of the killing (at [60]).12 The court also rejected the Defence’s submissions that Yati telling the appellant that 30 December was the last time they met led to a sudden surge of negative emotions, culminating in the killing. At the beginning of their meeting, Yati had told the appellant that that would be the last time they met. Before they met, Yati had told the appellant the same. Hence, there was no sudden or shocking stressor that would have triggered the appellant (at [65], [68]). 13 For the reasons above, the court dismissed the appeal and affirmed the sentence of mandatory death penalty (at [71]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
