
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE14 January 2022Case summary[ST Group Co Ltd and others v Sanum Investments Limited [2022] SGCA 2 Civil Appeal No. 113 of 2018 (Summons No 44 of 2021)]--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Quentin Loh):Outcome: CoA, having previously set aside an earlier judgment granting leave to enforce a Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”) Award, upon a subsequent application, set aside three final garnishee orders obtained pursuant to the earlier judgment, ordering the respondent to return the garnished sums.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where the substratum of a decision of the court has ceased to exist, it would be unjust not to set aside the related garnishee orders.•  The court has the power to order the return of sums paid under a judgment or order that was reversed.•  Where the return of sums paid under a judgment or order that was reversed, or made in error, interest of the sum should generally be paid. However, this is ultimately a question of fact, and where there are pending proceedings, the question of whether interest should be paid can be left to the tribunal which has yet to decide the substantive issue. 1 This was an application by the appellants in CA 113/2018 (“CA113”) seeking various consequential orders, following the decision of the Court of Appeal to allow their appeal and set aside an order granting leave for an arbitral award issued under SIAC to be enforced in Singapore as a judgment of the High Court (“the SIAC Award”). Background to the appeal2 The respondent in CA 113 and SUM 44, had commenced arbitral proceedings under SIAC, and obtained the SIAC Award against the appellants. The respondent then proceeded to obtain leave to enforce the SIAC Award (“the Leave Order”), as well as three garnishee orders to enforce the SIAC Award (amongst others) (“the garnishee orders”). The appellants filed SUM 4933/2017 to set aside the Leave Order, which was dismissed. The appellants then appealed in CA 113, and the respondent cross-appealed in CA 114/2018 (“CA 114”). CA 114 was dismissed, and CA 113 was allowed with the court finding that Macau was the right seat of arbitration, however the issue of consequential matters was not addressed. 3 After the appeal in CA 113, the appellant sought the return of the sums garnished under the garnishee orders, which the respondent refused. The appellants filed SUM 3785/2020, seeking the return of the garnished sums, but this was dismissed. In arbitration proceedings commenced in Macau, the tribunal there granted interim orders that should the garnished sums be returned, the moneys would be placed in escrow. The present application in SUM 44/2021 (“SUM 44”) is the appellants request for consequential orders from the Court of Appeal. The court’s decision on appeal4 The court has the power to set aside a garnishee order, and where the substratum of a court order has been destroyed, it would be unjust not to do so as it would leave invalid court orders formally operative (at [47]). 5 The respondent’s complaint of delay is unjustified, and it is unclear how such allegations can outweigh the inherent need to set aside judgments and court orders that should not have been made (at [48] – [49]). 6 An appellate court has the inherent power to order a return of sums paid under a judgment or order that has been reversed on appeal. The basis for this is one based on restitution and policy, which is the unravelling of the orders made by the court whose decision was reversed, in order to give effect to the decision on appeal (at [52] – [58]).7 The garnished sums should be returned as a matter of justice, as a party should not be deprived of moneys because of a court order that if found to be wrong on appeal. A party should not be allowed to take advantage of a court’s prior error, and any injustice caused to the respondent would be adequately met by the escrow arrangement ordered by the tribunal in Macau (at [61], [66] – [68]).8 The respondent’s argument that it had already spent garnished monies on legal costs and claims and would be prejudiced by having to raise the sum to be placed in escrow was not persuasive. The respondent undertook the risk that the Leave Order, and hence, any consequential enforcement orders, could be set aside, when it decided to use the moneys obtained under the FGOs for its own purposes (at [68]). 9 In general, where the return of sums paid under a judgment or order that was reversed, or made in error, interest of the sum should be paid. However, this is ultimately a question of fact, and where there are pending proceedings, the question of whether interest should be paid can be left to the tribunal which has yet to decide the substantive issue (at [72] – [76]). 10 There are no reasons why any orders made in SUM 44 should be stayed pending arbitration in Macau, although parties are given an allowance of time to seek directions for the escrow arrangement.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
