
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE13 January 2022Case summaryCrédit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, Singapore Branch v PPT Energy Trading Co Ltd and another suit [2022] SGHC(I) 1--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Jeremy Lionel Cooke IJ):Outcome: The SICC dismissed claim by issuing bank of a letter of credit for a declaration that the beneficiary was not entitled to receive payment thereunder for fraud Background1 Crédit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, Singapore Branch (“CACIB”) issued a letter of credit on 3 April 2020 (“the LC”) in favour of PPT Energy Trading Co Ltd (“PPT”).  The LC was issued on the application of Zenrock Commodities Trading Pte Ltd (“Zenrock”) for the purchase of Djeno crude oil (“the Cargo”) by Zenrock from PPT under a contract of sale (“the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract”). 2 Unbeknownst to CACIB, the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract was part of a series of round-tripping transactions, under which PPT had first purchased the Cargo from Shandong Energy International (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“Shandong”), before then selling it back to Zenrock under the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract.  Zenrock, in turn, was to sell the Cargo to Total Oil Trading SA (“TOTSA”). 3 For the purposes of applying for the LC, Zenrock had furnished CACIB with a copy of its sale contract with TOTSA (“the Fabricated Zenrock-TOTSA Sale Contract”), which had been fabricated to reflect a higher sale price than its actual sale contract with TOTSA (“the True Zenrock-TOTSA Sale Contract”).   Zenrock also executed a notice of assignment purporting to assign its receivables due under its sale contract with TOTSA (“the TOTSA Receivable”) to CACIB (“the CACIB NOA”).   Again, unbeknownst to CACIB, prior to executing the CACIB NOA, Zenrock had already executed another notice of assignment assigning the TOTSA Receivable to another of its banks, ING Bank NV (“the ING NOA”). Zenrock had therefore perpetuated a fraud on CACIB and deceived it in obtaining the LC. 4 On 16 April 2020, PPT presented its commercial invoice (“the PPT Invoice”) and a letter of indemnity (“the LOI”) to CACIB for payment under the LC.  The LC permitted the presentation of such documents in the absence of original shipping documents, as with many such letters of credit.  The PPT Invoice and the LOI conformed with the requirements under the LC and triggered CACIB’s obligation to honour the LC. 5 On 23 April 2020, TOTSA informed CACIB that it had received two competing notices of assignment from ING and CACIB (namely, the CACIB NOA and the ING NOA).  On 28 April 2020, TOTSA informed CACIB that Zenrock had misrepresented to CACIB the terms of its sale contract with TOTSA.  After being informed of these matters by TOTSA, CACIB became highly suspicious of PPT and sought verifications from PPT about the purported sale and information about the original shipping documents, but PPT did not respond, until 12 May 2020. 6 Under the terms of the LC, CACIB was given until midnight of 23 April 2020 to determine compliance of the documents presented.  If it was to determine that there was non-compliance, it was required to notify PPT no later than that time.  Thereafter, in the absence of such notification, CACIB would be precluded from claiming that the documents did not constitute a complying presentation.  In the circumstances, CACIB never sent a notice refusing the documents.  It also never declined to pay while it investigated the position with TOTSA and PPT, until 28 May 2020, when it obtained an interim injunction from the High Court on an ex parte application. 7 CACIB and PPT first commenced their respective actions in the High Court, which were later transferred to the SICC.  CACIB sought, amongst other reliefs prayed for, that: (a) PPT is not entitled to receive payment under the LC; and (b) PPT was in breach of warranties given to CACIB as stated in the LOI and so liable to pay damages corresponding to what CACIB was required to pay under the LC.  PPT sought, amongst other reliefs, a declaration that it was entitled to payment under the LC and/or damages for CACIB’s breach the contract under the LC. 8 There were two main issues for the SICC’s determination: (a) first, whether PPT had acted fraudulently in presenting the PPT Invoice and the LOI for payment under the LC; (b) second, whether CACIB could succeed in its claim on warranties given in the LOI. Whether PPT acted fraudulently or was entitled to be paid under the LC9 The SICC held that fraud capable of vitiating a demand for payment under a letter of credit can only encompass a beneficiary who acts dishonestly as part of a scheme to defraud the bank or presents otherwise facially compliant documents for payment, either with the knowledge that a representation contained therein is false, or without belief that it is true.  On the other hand, a failure, even a reckless failure to ascertain the truth of representations contained in presented documents, which are made in the honest belief that they are true, will not amount to fraud that vitiates a demand for payment under a letter of credit. 10 The SICC found that PPT had been aware of the round-tripping nature of the transactions relating to the Cargo, of which the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract was part.  However, it found that PPT had no actual knowledge of, and/or was not willfully blind to, the fact that the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract had been part of Zenrock’s fraudulent scheme. The PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract had been similar to pre-structured back-to-back deals in which PPT had participated  in the past, including deals with the same individual at Zenrock, none of which gave rise to issues of fraud or were ever the subject of questions as to their purpose.  It was assumed, when PPT acted as a go- between, that the parties had their reasons for such an interposition and would not ordinarily divulge them. The SICC also found that the relevant PPT personnel involved in the transaction considered that they were able to pass ownership of the Cargo to a buyer under the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract. 11 The SICC therefore held that neither the PPT Invoice nor the LOI could be said to be false or fraudulent in themselves, and neither had PPT misrepresented to CACIB the position on its title to the Cargo, nor could it be said that PPT was involved in a scheme to defraud CACIB.  12 Since PPT had not acted fraudulently, the SICC held that CACIB should have accepted the PPT Invoice and the LOI and made payment under the LC on its due date, 5 June 2020. Whether PPT could succeed in its claim on warranties given in the LOI13 The LOI was governed by English law, and the SICC was addressed by English Queen’s Counsel on this issue. The issue relating to the LOI involved questions of classification of its nature and questions of construction of its contents.  The SICC held that the LOI was an offer of a unilateral contract by PPT to CACIB, under which the obligation by PPT to give the warranties therein only arose if CACIB first made payment by the due date for payment as set out in the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract, which was 5 June 2020. 14 The SICC held that the interim injunction obtained by CACIB did not have the effect of extending the due date as set out in the PPT-Zenrock Sale Contract.   As such, in the absence of payment by CACIB by 5 June 2020, CACIB did not accept the unilateral contract offer by PPT, and PPT did not give any of the warranties as set out in the LOI. 15 In any event, the SICC considered that: (a) none of the three warranties set out in the LOI had  been breached; and (b) the indemnity provided in the LOI by PPT consequent upon any breaches of warranties also did not operate since CACIB had not made payment under the LC by the due date. 16 The SICC also considered whether CACIB would have been entitled to recover for any loss, if the express indemnity in the LOI had operated independently of any breaches of warranties.  However, the SICC found that CACIB had not discharged its burden of proof in establishing any such loss which PPT would be liable to indemnify it. 17 Accordingly, the SICC held that CACIB’s claim for an indemnity under the LOI also failed. PPT’s counterclaim against CACIB18 As it transpired, parties’ counsel engaged in negotiation following the grant of the interim injunction in May 2020, and on 13 November 2020, the interim injunction was lifted and the sum of the LC was paid out by CACIB on 18 November 2020, in exchange for a bank guarantee furnished by PPT as security for its repayment, should the court ultimately decide in favour of CACIB. 19 As part of its counterclaim against CACIB, PPT sought pre-judgment interest on the sum under the LC, as well as the sum of the fees which it had to pay in obtaining the bank guarantee. PPT previously claimed for the interest payable on a loan which it had obtained from its affiliate company, PPT Energy Trading Singapore Pte Ltd, as the sum under the LC was paid into a blocked account as counter-security for the bank guarantee. However, PPT abandoned that claim in closing submissions. Nevertheless, the SICC considered that issues arose as to PPT’s entitlement to interest, consequential damages and/or damages in respect of the undertaking given by CACIB when obtaining the injunction, all of which had not been adequately explored, including potential issues of remoteness. The SICC considered that all such questions of further relief, including damages, interests and costs, were to be reserved for future determination. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. 
