
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 January 2022Case summaryEsben Finance Ltd and others v Wong Hou-Lianq Neil [2022] SGCA(I) 1Civil Appeal No 3 of 2021 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  Claims in unjust enrichment and restitution for wrongs are not covered under the Limitation Act (Cap 163, 1996 Rev Ed) (“Limitation Act”), on the basis of the Act’s statutory wording and legislative history. In respect of restitution for wrongs, the Act applies where the claim brought is founded on a civil wrong for which a limitation period is provided under the Act, but not otherwise (at [48] and [73]). •  Under s 29 of the Limitation Act, the limitation period begins to run when there are circumstances that would give rise to a desire to investigate (at [97]). •  The equitable doctrine of laches does not apply to common law claims (at [122]–[124]).•  The Court was not prepared to endorse a blanket and unattenuated recognition of lack of consent as an unjust factor in the law of unjust enrichment; however, it recognised that there might be cases involving lack of consent where restitution on the ground of unjust enrichment could, in principle, be justified. The Court laid down definitive guidance that lack of consent would generally not be available as an unjust factor in cases where an alternative and established cause of action was already available to the plaintiff concerned. An unjust enrichment claim also cannot be founded on lack of consent as an unjust factor in situations where the defendant is entitled in law to retain the property or value transferred, or where the transfer of the property or value in question was a legally valid one (at [195] and [251]).•  The Court expressed a provisional view that the principle of international comity ought to apply to bar claims not only in contract but also in unjust enrichment where such claims would involve the contravention of the laws of a foreign country (at [171]–[172] and [176]) and that there are merits to the view that the principle should also extend to defences to claims in unjust enrichment (at [178] and [182]–[190]). Background to the appeal1 The appellants were four companies, namely Esben Finance Limited, Incredible Power Limited, Rayley Co Limited and Lismore Trading Company, two of which were incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and the other two in the Republic of Liberia (collectively, “the appellants”). The appellants were related to the WTK Group of companies (“WTK Group”) founded by the late Datuk Wong Tuong Kwang (“WTK”). The respondent, Neil Wong Hou-Lianq, was WTK’s grandson, being the son of WTK’s son, Wong Kie Nai (“WKN”). WTK had two other sons, Wong Kie Yik (“WKY”) and Wong Kie Chie (“WKC”). 2 The appellants’ case was that, upon WKY’s death, effective control of the WTK Group and the appellants passed to WKY and WKC. It was revealed that over a period of some 11 years between January 2001 and November 2012, WKN had instructed that some 50 payments (“the 50 payments”) be made from the appellants’ bank accounts to the respondent. The appellants alleged that WKY and WKC were not aware of the purpose for these payments. On 20 November 2017, the appellants commenced the suit below, bringing claims in (a) unjust enrichment; (b) dishonest assistance; (c) knowing receipt; and (d) unlawful means conspiracy. 3 The respondent did not dispute that he had received all 50 payments. However, he contended that there was no wrongdoing on his part or on WKN’s part with regard to the payments, the purpose for which he explained as follows: (a) 11 payments were “gifts” from WKN; (b) three payments were directors’ fees and shareholder dividends to which he was entitled and/or gifts from WKN; and (c) the remaining 36 payments were made in connection with an alleged “practice” by which companies in the WTK Group, including the appellants, entered into “split fee” arrangements which permitted their taxable revenues to be split into “onshore” and “offshore” components, the latter of which would not be declared to the Malaysian tax authorities, thereby evading Malaysian tax. He further contended that the claims were time-barred and/or barred by the doctrine of laches. 4 The International Judge (“Judge”) found that all of the appellants’ claims were time-barred under the Limitation Act, apart from Payment No 50. On the assumption that none of the claims had been time-barred: (a) In respect of the claims in unjust enrichment, the basis of the claims was the appellants’ lack of consent to the payments, which the Judge accepted as an “unjust factor”: (i) The claims for the 11 payments would have succeeded, as there was insufficient or no evidence to support the assertion that the 11 payments were gifts. The claims for the three payments would have similarly succeeded as there was no evidence that they were gifts or that they were made for legitimate purposes.(ii) As for the 36 payments (including Payment No 50), the Judge found that the “practice” had been carried out and therefore the claims would have failed, subject to the issue of illegality. (b) All the claims in relation to dishonest assistance, knowing receipt and unlawful means conspiracy would have failed. 5 In relation to the illegality issue, the Judge found that pursuant to the “practice”, the 36 payments were made and performed with the deliberate intention of evading taxes in Malaysia. However, the Judge rejected the appellants’ case that, as the respondent’s defence to the unjust enrichment claim was tainted by illegality, he was precluded from relying on the defence. As such, the claim in unjust enrichment for Payment No 50 also failed. 6 The appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision. The decision of the Court 7 The Court held that s 6 of the Limitation Act did not apply to claims in unjust enrichment and restitution for wrongs, both on the basis of the act’s statutory wording and legislative history. In respect of the Act’s statutory wording, the Court rejected the position that a restitutionary claim was a cause of action founded on contract within the meaning of the act. First, the proposition that restitutionary claims were based on quasi-contract or the implied contract theory had been rejected as the law developed. Second, a claim in quasi-contract was conceptually different from a contractual claim, as the implied contract theory had been used in circumstances where any implied promise to pay was entirely fictitious (at [48], [53] and [56]–[69]). As for restitution for wrongs, the Act applies where the restitutionary claim brought was founded on a civil wrong for which a limitation period was provided under the act, but not otherwise (at [73]). In respect of the legislative history of the Limitation Act, the law of restitution and unjust enrichment is a developing branch of the law of obligations and most claims in this particular area of the law would not have been in the contemplation of the legislature at the point of drafting the Limitation Act, as well as its predecessor legislation (at [81]–[83]). As such, restitutionary claims, including those in unjust enrichment, are not statutorily time-barred until the lacuna in the law is addressed by the legislature (at [85]).  8 The appellants’ claims in unjust enrichment were accordingly not statutorily time-barred under s 6 of the Limitation Act. However, the appellants’ other claims (apart from Payment No 50) were time-barred under s 6. Under s 29 of the Act, the limitation period began to run when the appellants could with reasonable diligence have discovered the 50 payments, namely where the appellants are aware of circumstances that would give rise to a desire to investigate. The court would undertake an objective inquiry as to whether a reasonable person in the claimant’s position had knowledge of sufficient information such that he ought to have undertaken further inquiry (at [86] and [97]). In this case, WKY had failed to exercise reasonable diligence and s 29 would therefore not apply to extend the limitation periods in respect of the appellants’ claims (at [108]). 9 The equitable doctrine of laches did not apply to common law claims. Equitable doctrines should not be lightly extended into the realm of the common law, as the notion of unconscionability which underpinned equitable doctrines did not readily lend itself to cases where the equitable jurisdiction of the court was not invoked at all, such as common law claims for common law relief which were based on the vindication of an identifiable legal right. This doctrine therefore did not apply to bar the appellants’ claims for unjust enrichment, as well as their claims for dishonest assistance, knowing receipt and unlawful means conspiracy in respect of Payment No 50 (at [122]–[124]). 10 In relation to the claims in unjust enrichment for the 36 payments, the Judge did not err in finding that the 36 payments were made pursuant to the “practice”. Under the “practice”, the appellants were neither the recipient nor the provider of the services in respect of which the payments were made, which was a prima facie indication that the appellants were used as intermediaries for channelling funds from some entities in or related to the WTK Group to the respondent personally. In some situations, a claimant could claim in unjust enrichment for the benefit transferred through intermediaries to the defendant if the substance of these transactions constituted an arrangement which resulted in a transfer of value from the claimant to the defendant. In such cases, the value directly transferred to the defendant was provided pursuant to a wider scheme but for which the transferor would not have had the value to transfer; in other words, a causal link could be established between, on the one hand, resources expended by the claimant and, on the other, the resources that were eventually transferred to the defendant. In such cases, the resources transferred would be regarded as the assets of the claimants and not that of the intermediaries. In this case, the 36 payments could not be viewed in isolation from the other transactions comprised in the “practice”, as they were part of a series of coordinated transactions to evade taxes. But for the “practice”, the monies for the 36 payments would not have gone to the appellants (who were in the position of intermediaries) in the first place. The respondent had therefore not been enriched at the appellants’ expense and the appellants’ unjust enrichment claims against the respondent in respect of the 36 payments thus failed in limine (at [148], [153], [155] and [159]). 11 The issue of illegality arose because the Judge had found that the “practice” was entered into and the 36 payments made and performed with the deliberate intention of evading taxes in Malaysia (at [160]). The Court expressed a provisional view that the principle that a claim ought to be unenforceable if it offended the policy of international comity (“Comity Unenforceability Principle”) ought to be extended to bar claims not only in contract, but also in unjust enrichment, if to permit it would otherwise result in the contravention of the laws of a foreign country. The principle of stultification would be engaged, inasmuch as permitting a claim in unjust enrichment would stultify the policy of international comity (at [171]–[172] and [176]). The Court also expressed a further provisional view that there are merits to the view that the Comity Unenforceability Principle should be extended to defences to claims in unjust enrichment, ie, the fundamental domestic public policy of international comity should bar defences in addition to claims in unjust enrichment, subject to the principle of stultification. This was for three reasons. First, the underlying principle of comity applied with equal force to both situations. Second, the consideration before our courts was whether the outcome of a particular case would be in breach of the policy of international comity, and not the claim or the defence(s) thereto in isolation. For this reason, the court should not stop at examining whether the bringing of a claim might engage the principle of stultification, but should proceed to examine the merits of the said claim, which necessarily involved the consideration of the relevant defence(s), if any. Third, the effect of allowing a defence to succeed despite its illegality would result in the dismissal of the unjust enrichment claim, which amounts to acquiescing in the outcome of the illegal act or an act repugnant to public policy (at [178] and [182]–[190]). 12 In relation to the claims in unjust enrichment for the 11 payments and the three payments, the Court took the view that Judge did not err in finding that the respondent did not provide sufficient evidence to support the bases on which they claimed the payments were made (at [192]). At this stage, the Court was not prepared to endorse a blanket and unattenuated recognition of lack of consent as an unjust factor in the law of unjust enrichment; however, it recognised that there might be cases involving lack of consent where restitution on the ground of unjust enrichment could, in principle, be justified (at [195]). There was in principle no reason why lack of consent ought not to be recognised as an unjust factor, because to hold otherwise might result in defendants who had received stolen property or value benefitting from a windfall. However, the recognition of lack of consent as an unjust factor could not be blanket and uncircumscribed, as doing so would result in unacceptable encroachments on other areas of law, denuding them of their legal significance. In addition, legally valid transfers of the claimant’s property or value without his consent, or the retention by the defendant of the claimant’s property or value to which the defendant is legally entitled, could not be said to have been unjust (at [251]). 13 Consequently, the Court laid down definitive guidance that lack of consent would generally not be available as an unjust factor in cases where an alternative and established cause of action was already available to the plaintiff concerned. An unjust enrichment claim also could not be founded on lack of consent as an unjust factor in situations where the defendant was entitled in law to retain the property or value transferred, and where the transfer of the property or value in question was a legally valid one (at [195] and [251]). On the facts in the present case, the appellants had a proprietary claim against the respondent for the sums transferred by the 11 payments and the three payments. These proprietary rights should not be interfered with by recognising an unjust enrichment claim on the same facts (at [253]). The appellant’s claims in unjust enrichment for the 11 payments and three payments therefore could not succeed. 14 The appellants’ claims in dishonest assistance, knowing receipt and unlawful means conspiracy in respect of Payment No 50 were also not made out on the facts as the appellants could not prove they suffered loss or that the amount transferred represented the appellants’ own assets (at [261]–[262]). For the above reasons, the appeal was therefore dismissed.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
