
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27 December 2021Case summaryBaker, Michael A v BCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd and others [2021] SGHC(I) 19 Suit No 3 of 2018 (Summons No 25 of 2021)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Quentin Loh JAD, Carolyn Berger IJ and Dominique Hascher IJ:Outcome: SICC orders defendants to pay US$7,859,424.23 and CHF1,662,894.67 as sums due on the taking of accounts.  Introduction1 This was an application by the plaintiff, Michael Baker (“Baker”), for the defendants –  BCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd (“BCS”), Marcus Weber (“Weber”) and Renslade Holdings Ltd (“Renslade (HK)”) (collectively, “the Defendants”) – to be ordered to pay (a) US$10,313,895.25 and CHF1,662,894.67, being the amount Baker claimed was due on the taking of the account of the trust; and (b) interest at a rate of 5.33% per annum from 30 October 2017 to when the sums due were fully paid. Background2 Baker was the executor of the estate of Chantal Burnison (“the Estate”). Chantal was the co-inventor of a compound called “Ethocyn” used in anti-aging skin products. The intellectual property rights in the Ethocyn (“the Ethocyn Rights”) were held by companies controlled by Chantal, which entered into bankruptcy proceedings in the US (“the US Bankruptcy Proceedings”). The Ethocyn Rights were acquired by Renslade New Zealand with the approval of the US Bankruptcy Court, and subsequently transferred to a Singapore company (“Renslade (S)”), and then to BCS. 3 In November 2017, the Estate commenced suit (“the Suit”) against the Defendants, alleging that the Defendants were trustees of the Ethocyn Rights for the Estate, and had breached their fiduciary duties.4 The SICC rendered its judgment in Baker, Michael A (executor of the estate of Chantal Burnison, deceased) v BCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd and others [2020] 4 SLR 85 (“the Judgment”) on 29 April 2020. In the Judgment, the court held that there was a valid and enforceable trust agreement governed by Singapore law as between Weber and Chantal. Chantal was the beneficial owner of the Ethocyn Rights, and the moneys and income generated therefrom (“the Trust Assets and Trust Monies”). The bulk of the Trust Monies were derived from a supply and distribution agreement between the Defendants and one Nu Skin International Inc. The court found that the Defendants breached their fiduciary duties, and ordered, among other things, that (a) the Defendants to provide a detailed account of all transactions that had taken place in respect of the Trust Assets and/or Trust Moneys;  and (b) the Defendants pay to the plaintiff all sums due to the plaintiff on the taking of the account. 5 The Defendants’ appeal against the Judgment (“the Appeal”) was dismissed by the Court of Appeal in January 20216 The parties exchanged a series of correspondence over the issue of the account. The Defendants’ provided a combined account (“Combined Account”) which consisted of two parts: (a) “Income”, representing the income received; and (b) “Outgoings”, representing the amounts sought to be deducted from the income. Under the “Outgoings” was a tax provision of US$70m that the Defendants sought to make. On the Combined Account, no further payment was due from the Defendants to Baker. 7 Baker was dissatisfied with the Combined Account, on the basis of the following objections: (a) an objection to the “Income” arising from an alleged failure to include US$200,000; (b) various objections to the “Outgoings” listed by the Defendants; and (c) consequently, a difference in view as to the amount due from the Defendants. Further, Baker disputed the tax provision the Defendants wished to make. The parties also disagreed on the interest that was to be paid on the sums due from the Defendants.DecisionApplicable law and standards8 Given that the account was being taken after adverse findings were made against the Defendants, the court took into account its findings in relation to the Defendants’ conduct when coming to assess the specific entries in dispute: at [19].9 When a trustee provided an account which disclosed what the beneficiary considered to be discrepancies, the beneficiary may choose to: (a) falsify a wrongful expense or loss charged to the account, which would require the expense or loss to be deleted or disallowed; or (b) surcharge an account, that is, to assert that the trustee has received more than what the account records. When a beneficiary falsified an entry, the burden lay on the trustee to prove the disbursement was authorised. In contrast, when a beneficiary sought a surcharge, the burden lay on the beneficiary to show that the trustee received more than the account recorded: at [20] and [21].10 A trustee had the right to be indemnified out of trust property for costs and expenses incurred in the course of the trust, but this right was not unqualified and did not extend to costs and expenses incurred without authority. Given the overlap between the question of whether a specific expense or cost was properly incurred and the question of whether a particular entry should be falsified, the court treated these questions together: at [22].11 In applying the burden of proof, the court would have regard to the trustee’s duty to keep records and to be ready to give an account. The plaintiff argued that the Defendants were to be held to a higher standard as they were professional trustees. However, on the facts of this case, the court did not agree, as there was no indication that the Defendants were in fact in a course of profession or business relating to trusts: at [23] to [26].Objection to the income12 The sole dispute over the income concerned US$200,000 which Baker claimed had been received by BCS from Webstone 21, a company in the Republic of Korea. As Baker was pursuing a surcharge of the account, the burden lay on him to establish this claim. However, the evidence did not sufficiently establish Baker’s case. The highest that the plaintiff’s case could go was that there was a letter of credit, but there was no evidence that it was paid upon or that the transaction was completed: at [29] to [32].Objections to the outgoings13 There were four points of general disagreement between the parties. These were (a) the extent of Chantal’s involvement in the Ethocyn business and the implication of that involvement on the Defendants’ burden of proof; (b) whether Baker, as executor of the Estate, was estopped from disputing the outgoings; (c) whether the Defendants were entitled to compensation beyond the 5% agreed between Weber and Chantal; and (d) the role and relevance of audited financial statements and expert opinions.a. In relation to the first issue, it was clear that, in general, Chantal was directing payments to be made, and it was incumbent on the Defendants to keep proper records of such instructions and approval. However, the reality was that there was an ongoing business relating to the Ethocyn rights, and this meant that strict records of instructions and approvals may not always be kept or that certain payments may not be highlighted in each and every instance to Chantal. Hence, while the absence of documentary evidence would be counted against the Defendants in general, it was possible for the Defendants to establish, on an entry by entry basis, that Chantal had approved the transaction, eg, because it was part of a series of payments, an established pattern of conduct, or the nature of the payments indicates that they must have been for the Ethocyn business: at [39] to [41].b. In relation to the second issue, it was not necessary to adopt an analysis of estoppel, as the same questions of fact that would go towards establishing, as a question of proof, whether Chantal expressly or implicitly approved a particular outgoing would also be relevant to establishing the elements of estoppel: at [43].c. In relation to the third issue, Weber was only entitled to 5% of the revenue as his commission or compensation for any services that he rendered to Chantal and the Ethocyn business. However, this did not mean that the 5% was the ceiling for any and all compensation, renumeration or reimbursement for all other services provided by other entities, even entities controlled by Weber, or for expenses incurred (even by Weber) in the process of the provision of those services and in the conduct of the Ethocyn business: at [51].d. In relation to the fourth issue, the mere provision of financial statements would not necessarily suffice to discharge a trustee’s duty to account. However, if the purpose of the outgoings is clear on the face of the financial statements, it may be possible to draw the inference that the outgoings were part and parcel of the Ethocyn business and, in the light of any other evidence, may have been approved by Chantal. Furthermore, even if statements or figures were provided, the court would have to consider the scope and specificity of the information provided. As for the evidence provided by the Defendants’ expert, the court would take into account his views that certain expenses were documented to his satisfaction, but that opinion could not be determinative of any matter that was properly for the court to decide, including whether the outgoings were in fact incurred and whether they were properly incurred: at [53] to [56].14 The court then turned to the specific objections raised by Baker. Having regard to the principles stated above, and with particular attention paid to the burden of proof, the court falsified entries totalling US$7,835,517.31 and CHF1,662,894.67, as it was not satisfied that the Defendants had sufficiently proved that these deductions were authorised or approved. Furthermore, as modifications have been made to the Combined Account after it was furnished, these modifications were incorporated into the account. As a result, the Defendants were to pay $7,859,424.23 and CHF1,662,894.67: at [146] and [147]. Interest payable15 The parties did not dispute that interest of 5.33% per annum should be ordered for interest running from the date of the Judgment. The parties disagreed, however, as to whether interest should be ordered to be paid on the sum due from the Defendants to the plaintiff until the date of the Judgment, and if so, the appropriate rate of interest: at [149].16 The basis of the power to award pre-judgment interest was s 12(1) of the Civil Law Act (Cap 43, 1999 Rev Ed). The Defendants argued that the court should exercise its discretion not to award pre-judgment interest as they had paid the sum of S$10,330,658.91 into court prior to the Judgment. However, this was not sufficient. The span of time between that payment and the handing down of the Judgment was much shorter than the span of time between 30 October 2017 (when the Defendants failed to comply with the demand for the Trust Assets and Trust Moneys to be accounted for and transferred) to the date of the Judgment or the date when that sum was paid into court. Further, even in respect of that sum paid into court, the plaintiff did lose the time value of the money. Therefore, pre-judgment interest would run from 30 October 2017, which was the deadline initially set for the account and return of the Trust Assets and Trust Moneys: at [152].17 The rate of pre-judgment interest was ordered to be 5.33% per annum. The authorities showed that, in the absence of any reason to depart from the default rate, the rate of 5.33% per annum would apply. The Defendants’ argument that the rate of 3.7% per annum should be used was based on an estimate of the returns on investments obtained by Renslade (HK) in the same period of time. This was flawed. First, there was no basis for assuming that Chantal had agreed to the investments made by Renslade (HK). Secondly, this assumed that the relevant investment strategy was Chantal’s, but she had already passed away in October 2016. By the time the Trust Assets and Trust Moneys were demanded, Baker was the executor of the Estate, and hence, it was what the Estate would have done on receipt of the payments by 30 October 2017 that was relevant. As there was no evidence what the Estate would have done with the sums due on 30 October 2017, there was no reason to depart from the usual rate of 5.33% per annum: at [157] to [161].Tax provision18 There was no basis for the tax provision sought by the Defendants. The central issue was whether there was any basis for the Defendants to be personally liable for any unpaid tax or tax penalties in the United States. However, the expert evidence did not establish this personal liability. Instead, the evidence pointed only one way, which was that the Defendants would not be personally liable for any taxes or penalties: at [169] and [170]. Conclusion19 For the reasons above, the court granted the following orders (at [171]):a. The Defendants were to pay the plaintiff the sums of US$7,859,424.23 and CHF1,662,894.67, as the sums due from the Defendants on the taking of the account.b. The Defendants were to pay to the plaintiff interest at the rate of 5.33% per annum on the moneys paid to the plaintiff on the basis of the Trust, from 30 October 2017 until such date (or dates, if various sums are received at various time) that the sums are received by the plaintiff. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
