
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27 December 2021Case summaryKiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and anor [2021] SGHC(I) 18SIC/S 4/2017------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Kannan Ramesh J, Roger Giles IJ and Anselmo Reyes IJ:Outcome: SICC dismisses plaintiff’s application to make non-party jointly and severally liable for defendant’s costs under O 110 r 46(3)(c) of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed). Background1 Kiri Industries Ltd (“Kiri”) and Senda International Capital Ltd (“Senda”) were involved in a long running litigation that spanned more than six years. Kiri alleged that Senda had acted oppressively with regard to their joint venture vehicle, DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”). Senda was a subsidiary of Zhejiang Longsheng Group Co Ltd (“Longsheng”). 2 The Singapore International Commercial Court (“the SICC”) found that there was oppression by Senda and ordered that Senda purchase Kiri’s minority interest in DyStar at a value of US$481.6m (“the Buy-Out Order”). Then, on 8 December 2021, the SICC released its judgment in Kiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another [2021] SGHC(I) 16 (“the Costs Judgment”), where it ordered Senda to pay Kiri costs and disbursements totalling S$8,111,642.11. 3 Shortly before the release of the Costs Judgment, Kiri wrote to court requesting that Longsheng be made jointly and severally liable for the costs payable by Senda. Senda opposed this application. The issue was reserved for consideration.The SICC’s decision4 The SICC found that the present case was not an exceptional one, and therefore declined to make Longsheng liable for the costs payable by Senda.5 Kiri was unable to point to any evidence showing that Longsheng funded or controlled the proceedings for its own benefit. Longsheng having control over Senda was insufficient reason for the court to lift the corporate veil and order costs against it. There had to be evidence of fraud or unconscionable conduct. For example, in the case of Montpelier Business Reorganisation Ltd v Armitage Jones LLP and others [2017] EWHC 2273, the plaintiff was an insolvent company that had been used by its parent company to bring “risk-free” litigation against several defendants. This was not the case here: at [5] to [9].6 Further, Senda, as the defendant, did not unreasonably prolong proceedings and cause Kiri to incur further costs. The proceedings were complicated and multi-faceted, and involved significant controversy. Kiri did not succeed on every issue and thus it could not be said that Senda had defended Kiri’s claims in bad faith: at [10] to [11].7 Finally, there was no evidence that Senda would be unable to pay the costs order. Although Senda had suggested that it would be unable to pay the Buy-Out Order, the quantum of the Buy-Out Order far eclipsed the quantum of costs awarded. It was thus speculative to say that Senda would be unable to fulfil the costs order: at [12].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
