
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 December 2021Case summaryTwarit Consultancy Services Pte Ltd and another v GPE (India) Ltd and others [2021] SGHC(I) 17Originating Summons No 10 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Roger Giles IJ:Outcome: SICC disallowed application to set aside SIAC arbitral award.Background1 In 2017, the defendants commenced arbitral proceedings against the plaintiffs at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”). The award issued on 7 January 2021 (the “Award”) obliged the plaintiffs to pay to the defendants INR 195,00,00,000 in damages. The plaintiffs filed an originating summons (“OS”) to set aside the Award.The material facts2 From 2010 to 2011, the defendants entered into two Share Subscription and Shareholders Agreements (“SSHAs”), through which they subscribed to shares in Haldia Coke and Chemicals Private Ltd (“Haldia”). The second plaintiff was a party to both SSHAs as one of the promoters, but the first plaintiff was not a party to either. Under the SSHAs, the promoters undertook to procure a listing event by 31 March 2014. If the listing event did not occur by then, there was provision for an exit mechanism, being an entitlement in the defendants to exercise one or a combination of a number of rights. If the defendants exercised some of these rights, they would be entitled to a 24% compounded annual rate of return on their total investment amount (“the 24% IRR”). The SSHAs each included an arbitration clause in materially the same terms.3 A Listing Event was not procured by 31 March 2014, but none of the exit mechanism rights was exercised. Instead, in 2015, three Share Purchase Agreements (“the SPAs”) were entered into between the defendants, the plaintiffs, and some others, pursuant to which the plaintiffs were obliged to purchase Haldia shares from the defendants for a total price of INR 200,00,00,000. Additionally, a letter agreement (“the First Letter Agreement”) was entered into between the plaintiffs, the defendants and other parties, providing for the suspension of the defendants’ exit mechanism rights in the SSHAs, and the revival of those rights upon a breach of the plaintiffs’ obligation to make payment under the SPAs. The First Letter Agreement and the SPAs each included an arbitration clause in materially the same terms.4 As the plaintiffs only paid INR 5,00,00,000 and nothing thereafter, the defendants commenced the SIAC arbitral proceedings on 14 December 2017 pursuant to the arbitration clauses in the SPAs and First Letter Agreement. Notably, the arbitration clauses in the SSHAs, which provided for a different tribunal composition and arbitral procedure, were not invoked.5 In the arbitral proceedings, the defendants made two claims in the alternative in their Statement of Claim. First, it was said that the plaintiffs were liable to pay the defendants INR 401,00,00,000 in damages. This was calculated in accordance with the formula in clause 3(c) of the First Letter Agreement, being the 24% IRR less the amount paid under the SPAs. Second and in the alternative, the defendants sought damages amounting to INR 195,00,00,000, being the outstanding sums due to them under SPAs, or such sums as to be assessed by the Tribunal.6 On 4 February 2020, the plaintiffs applied for an adjournment of the evidentiary hearing. The basis of the adjournment application was that their former counsel had “withdrawn” and the new lawyer had not received the papers. The Tribunal dismissed the adjournment application. On 25 February 2020, the plaintiffs applied to exclude the evidence of the defendants’ Indian law expert, mainly on the ground that his evidence pertained to legal issues. This application was dismissed as well.7 On 7 January 2021, the Award was issued, obliging the plaintiffs to pay to the defendants INR 195,00,00,000 with interest. The plaintiffs filed the OS to set aside the Award, relying on the following grounds in their written submissions:a. The First Letter Agreement provided that the defendants’ rights under the SSHAs would revive if the plaintiffs failed to pay under the SPAs. The defendants’ claims were based on that failure to pay and upon the revival of the SSHA rights. In particular, the defendants were claiming for the 24% IRR amount payable under the SSHAs, via clause 3(c) of the First Letter Agreement. As the dispute fell within the ambit of the SSHAs as opposed to the SPAs and the First Letter Agreement, it was the arbitration clauses in the SSHAs which should apply, not those in the SPAs and the First Letter Agreement. Hence, the Award was made in excess of the Tribunal’s jurisdiction (see Article 34(2)(a)(iii) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“the Model Law”)), and the composition of the arbitral tribunal as well as the arbitral procedure were not in accordance with parties’ agreement (see Article 34(2)(a)(iv) of the Model Law).b. The dispute was non-arbitrable within the meaning of Article 34(2)(b)(i) of the Model Law. First, the underlying transaction was illegal under Indian law. The legality of the transaction would have an impact on third parties, in particular Haldia, but also on the regulators and other stakeholders with an interest in Haldia’s insolvency proceedings (Haldia was admitted into a voluntary corporate insolvency resolution process under Indian law in July 2017). Secondly, moratoriums were declared in India prohibiting the commencement of court or arbitration proceedings in respect of, or involving, Haldia and the second plaintiff.c. The plaintiffs were unable to present their case (see Article 34(2)(a)(ii) of the Model Law) and their right to be heard was prejudiced (see s 24(b) of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“the IAA”)). First, the Tribunal’s refusal to adjourn the evidentiary hearing meant that their newly appointed counsel only had less than a month to get up on the case and prepare for the hearing. Secondly, the Tribunal’s refusal to exclude the evidence of the defendants’ Indian law expert witness was contrary to an agreed and contemplated procedure for the parties to present legal arguments by way of submissions. Thirdly, the plaintiffs were also denied a right to be heard because the Tribunal awarded INR 195,00,00,000 as damages even though defendants had not submitted that they should be awarded damages for breach of the SPAs.The Court’s grounds of decision8 First, the defendants’ claims fell within the arbitration clauses in the SPAs and the First Letter Agreement, and not those in the SSHAs. The first plaintiff was a party to the SPAs and the First Letter Agreement, but was not a party to the SSHAs. There was also a clear claim for outstanding sums under SPAs in the alternative. Even as to the 24% IRR amount, the defendants were not exercising a revived right found in the SSHAs but claiming a separate entitlement under clause 3(c) of the First Letter Agreement for which the 24% IRR was part of the calculation. There plainly was a “Dispute” within that term in the arbitration clauses in the SPAs and the First Letter Agreement, as there was a disputed claim for damages for breach of the SPAs triggering the clause 3(c) entitlement or an entitlement to damages on the alternative basis (at [75]).9 Second, the presumption of arbitrability was not rebutted (at [93]). The dispute did not arise from Haldia’s rights and obligations at all (at [90]). Haldia, or any of the other parties to the various agreements, was not a party to the arbitrations and not bound by a decision on illegality. There might or might not be an economic effect on them of the outcome in the arbitrations, or of the decision on illegality, but that did not make the dispute non-arbitrable. Disputes over the illegality of a transaction were not uncommon in arbitral proceedings, and there was no reason why they could not be decided by an arbitrator instead of a judge. The regulators or other stakeholders were no more or less affected by an arbitrator’s decision than by a judge’s decision (at [92]). As for the moratoriums, the moratorium in relation to Haldia did not impede the commencement or continuation of the arbitrations to which Haldia was not a party; even if the moratorium had that effect, it only meant that the arbitrations might be irregular, and that was a different matter from the question of arbitrability (at [88]). The moratorium concerning second plaintiff would not render the dispute non-arbitrable too (at [89]).10 Third, the Court rejected the plaintiffs’ complaint relating to the Tribunal’s refusal to adjourn the evidentiary hearing. Plaintiffs’ counsel appeared to have been able fully to fulfil their role: they filed the relevant papers and participated in the hearings. There was no protest that counsel was prejudiced. The refusal of the adjournment was within the discretion of the Tribunal, which was in the position to assess the adequacy of the time available to incoming counsel (at [112]–[113]).11 The plaintiffs’ complaint regarding the Tribunal’s dismissal of their application to exclude the evidence of the defendants’ Indian law expert witness was without merit too. The Tribunal issued a procedural order which clearly contemplated that there could be expert evidence of Indian law by witness statement, and the plaintiffs did not protest that this was a departure from an agreed and contemplated procedure or complain that they were prejudiced through themselves not adducing expert evidence on Indian law (at [118]–[119]). In fact, it did not appear that the plaintiffs were prejudiced: plaintiffs’ counsel cross-examined the defendants’ expert witness, were qualified in Indian law, and made extensive submissions on Indian law (at [121]–[122]). The Tribunal explained the reasons for his decision, and his ruling was not outside what a reasonable and fair-minded tribunal might have done (at [122]).12 Lastly, the Tribunal’s award of INR 195,00,00,000 as damages did not prejudice the plaintiffs’ right to be heard. This was part of the defendants’ pleaded case which was maintained in the course of the arbitrations, and the plaintiffs had full opportunity to respond to it (at [124] and [126]).13 For the foregoing reasons, the plaintiffs’ application to set aside the Award was dismissed (at [131]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
