
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 December 2021Case summaryMiao Weiguo v Tendcare Medical Group Holdings Pte Ltd (formerly known as Tian Jian Hua Xia Medical Group Holdings Pte Ltd) (in judicial management) and another [2021] SGCA 116Civil Appeal No 28 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA allows the appeal in part, upholding part of the HC’s findings on dishonest assistance and restricting the scope of the reflective loss principle. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The reflective loss principle only applies to shareholders claiming as shareholders, and provides that claims by shareholders for the diminution in the value of their shareholdings or in distributions they receive as shareholders as the result of actionable loss suffered by their company cannot be maintained: at [206].Introduction1 This was an appeal by the appellant, Mr Miao Weiguo (“Mr Miao”), against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) finding him liable in respect of two transfers of US$2m and US$4m each, on the basis that he had dishonestly assisted Mr Gong Ruizhong (“Mr Gong”), the director of the first respondent, Tendcare Medical Group Holdings Pte Ltd (“Tendcare”), in breaching duties owed to Tendcare.Background to the appeal2 Tendcare was an investment holding company which owned and operated hospitals and other medical-related businesses in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), in a group known as the “Tian Jian Group”. It was placed under judicial management on 11 September 2017, and the second respondent, Mr Yit Chee Wah (“Mr Yit”) was appointed as judicial manager.3 At the material time, Mr Gong held the majority of shares in Tendcare through a holding company, Gongs Global Investment Development Holdings Limited. Tendcare, in turn, was the parent company of Tian Jian Hua Xia Medical Group (HK) Limited (“TJHK”). TJHK was subsequently wound up. 4 Mr Miao was the sole director and shareholder of various companies, including Qian Hui Capital Limited (“QHC”), which had been wound up in Hong Kong in October 2020 on the application of TJHK’s liquidators, and Hui Xiang Group Pte Ltd (“HXG”).5 The underlying dispute emerged against the background of Tendcare’s planned initial public offering (“the Tendcare IPO”), which did not come to fruition. HXG had become involved in the Tendcare IPO in 2013. As part of the preparations for the Tendcare IPO, pre-IPO funds were raised from various investors and creditors. At the same time, however, a total of US$45.29m and S$500,000 was transferred out of the Tian Jian Group (“the Disputed Transfers”). 6 The respondents claimed that Mr Gong and Mr Miao had carried out a scheme of fraudulent trading and had transferred these funds out for their personal benefit. The respondents brought various claims on a number of different bases against Mr Gong and Mr Miao and various other persons and companies related to them, primarily focusing on the claim of fraudulent trading. In addition, the respondents’ case against Mr Miao included claims of dishonest assistance in relation to two transfers of funds. a. A transfer of US$2m from Tendcare to TJHK and then to QHC in March and April 2015 (“the US$2m Transfer”). b. A transfer of US$4m from Tendcare to TJHK and then to QHC (“the US$4m Transfer”) in September 2015. In relation to the sum of US$4m, US$2.765m was transferred from QHC to Mr Miao’s personal bank account, and then paid to one Asia Hausse Capital Limited (“Asia Hausse”). Asia Hausse was a company controlled by one Mr Hanford Cheung (“Mr Cheung”). In addition, US$1m was transferred from QHC to Hongjia International Holdings Co Ltd (“Hongjia”). The sums transferred to Asia Hausse and Hongjia eventually made their way to Mr Gong’s bank accounts.The respondents claimed that the US$2m and US$4m Transfers were procured by Mr Gong in breach of his fiduciary duties owed to Tendcare, and that Mr Miao had dishonestly assisted in Mr Gong’s breaches of those duties.7 Mr Miao denied being involved in fraudulent trading. Further, in relation to the US$2m Transfer, he claimed that the sum of US$2m had been lent by TJHK to QHC under a loan agreement which carried interest of 7% per annum (“the US$2m QHC Loan”). In relation to the US$4m Transfer, Mr Miao claimed that the loan agreement in relation to this transfer (“the US$4m QHC Loan”) was a sham conceived by Mr Cheung and one Mr Eric Sin (“Mr Sin”) to get funds to Mr Gong in the PRC for him to purchase hospitals in the country. In addition, Mr Miao claimed that Tendcare and Mr Yit were precluded from recovering any money as Tendcare’s loss was reflective of the loss suffered by TJHK.8 The Judge found Mr Gong liable for fraudulent trading, but held that Mr Miao was not involved in or aware of the scheme, and did not know about the Disputed Transfers apart from the US$2m and US$4m Transfers. However, having concluded that Mr Gong was in breach of his fiduciary duties, the Judge held Mr Miao liable for dishonest assistance. Therefore, the Judge ordered Mr Miao to be jointly and severally liable with other parties for US$2m and US$4m.Decision on appeal9 Mr Miao appealed to the Court of Appeal. He argued that the Judge had erred in finding that Mr Gong was in breach of his fiduciary duties in respect of the US$2m Transfer, and, in any event, that he had dishonestly assisted Mr Gong in relation to this transfer. Mr Miao also submitted that the Judge had erred in finding that Mr Miao had dishonestly assisted Mr Gong in respect of the US$4m Transfer. In any event, he argued that the respondents could not recover any sums from him as Tendcare’s loss was reflective of TJHK’s loss, as Tendcare was a shareholder of TJHK.Whether Mr Miao was liable for dishonest assistance10 There were four elements to the cause of action in dishonest assistance: (a) the existence of a trust or fiduciary obligation; (b) a breach of trust or a fiduciary obligation; (c) assistance was rendered for the breach; and (d) the assistance was dishonest: at [45].A. The US$2m Transfer11 Mr Miao argued that the respondents had not established that Mr Gong had breached his duties to Tendcare as the US$2m transferred from Tendcare to TJHK was into a different account than the one from which US$2m was transferred by TJHK to QHC. The court disagreed. The breach of Mr Gong’s duty owed to Tendcare in relation to the transfer of money from TJHK to QHC did not require that the US$2m from Tendcare to TJHK be identical to the US$2m transferred from TJHK to QHC. The Judge’s finding that the two transfers could be linked was not against the weight of evidence. It followed that the respondents had established that Mr Gong had breached his duty owed to Tendcare in relation to the transfer from TJHK to QHC: at [52], [54] and [55].12 Even if parts of the US$2m Transfer may have raised questions, the respondents had not shown that Mr Miao knew or believed that the US$2m QHC Loan was not a genuine loan agreement. Further, the inference could not be drawn that Mr Miao knew that the US$2m QHC Loan was derived from the pre-IPO funds and that the loan was inconsistent with the purpose for which the funds were raised: at [74] and [79].13 Given the state of Mr Miao’s knowledge, it was not possible to conclude that his participation in the transaction would offend ordinary standards of honesty. The court therefore reversed the Judge’s finding of liability in relation to this sum: at [80] and [81]. B. The US$4m Transfer14 The dispute turned on whether Mr Miao knew that the transfer of US$4m to QHC and then to Hongjia and Asia Hausse was ultimately for Mr Gong’s benefit, or whether Mr Miao should be believed when he claimed that he thought that the transfers were for the purchase of hospitals in the PRC: at [86].15 In the first place, the Judge was entitled to conclude that there would have been proper arrangements for the transfer of funds into the PRC and that Mr Miao would have known or have been able to find out about those arrangements: at [88] to [91].16 As for Mr Miao’s claim that he was told by Mr Cheung that the transfer was for the purpose of purchasing hospitals in the PRC, the evidence did not support this claim. Mr Cheung, who was called by the respondents as their witness, was not cross-examined on this allegation, despite the fact that Mr Cheung had given evidence that he had approached Mr Miao with the proposal to use QHC’s and his bank accounts to transfer funds from Tendcare and its subsidiaries to Mr Gong’s personal bank account. Further, Mr Miao’s claim was a belated afterthought. Instead, the evidence established that Mr Cheung had told Mr Miao that the transfers were ultimately for moneys to be sent to Mr Gong’s personal bank account and that Mr Cheung did not know that the purpose of the transfers was for the purchase of hospitals as Mr Miao alleged. Mr Miao’s claim to believe that the transfer was for that purpose was rejected: at [99] to [103].17 Mr Miao’s participation in the transaction offended ordinary standards of honesty. Despite the absence of any apparently legitimate purpose for the transaction, Mr Miao willingly let QHC’s and his bank accounts be used for transfers of significant sums of money. Further, a sham loan agreement had to be used to disguise the transaction, which was suggestive of impropriety: at [105]. 18 Therefore, the Judge did not err in finding that the cause of action in dishonest assistance against Mr Miao in relation to the US$4m Transfer was made out: at [109].Reflective loss19 The shareholder had a unique status in relation to the company: at [120]. The reflective loss principle had emerged in the specific sphere of company law, and applied only to claims based on a diminution in the value of a shareholding or in distributions to shareholders as a result of a loss suffered by the company due to a wrong done to it: at [130] and [131]. Subsequent cases, however, had extended the scope of the reflective loss principle and associated it with the broader concern of preventing double recovery: at [135].20 In Townsing Henry George v Jenton Overseas Investment Pte Ltd (in liquidation) [2007] 2 SLR(R) 597 (“Townsing”), the Court of Appeal had identified the rationale for the reflective loss principle both as a variant of the proper plaintiff rule, which provided that where actionable loss was suffered by the company, it was the company that was the proper plaintiff to bring the claim, and also on the basis of preventing double recovery or prejudice to creditors and other shareholders. This led to the adoption of a rule preventing shareholders from claiming for any loss, whether suffered as shareholder or in any other capacity, if the company had an actionable claim for the same loss, but subject to a policy exception which allowed recovery if the need to prevent double recovery or prejudice to other shareholders or creditors did not apply: at [146] and [149].21 Subsequently, in Marex Financial Ltd v Sevilleja (All Party Parliamentary Group on Fair Business Banking intervening) [2021] AC 39 (“Marex”), the UK Supreme Court revisited the reflective loss principle. The majority held that the reflective loss principle was a rule of company law and was limited to shareholders’ claims based on a diminution of the value of shares or distributions they receive as the result of actionable loss suffered by the company: at [157]. The minority held instead that there was no principle of reflective loss, and that concerns of double recovery could be addressed by other means: at [160] to [167].22 There were two categories of issues with the present law in Singapore under Townsing. The first arose from a tension between the two principles that were identified as underlying the reflective loss principle. Townsing had left the law in an unstable state, with two strands of thinking pulling in two different and opposite directions: at [170]. The second was that the scope of the reflective loss principle stated in Townsing was too broad, which risked distorting the law of obligations and was also difficult to apply: at [172] to [174].23 Double recovery was a general concern which the law had always found ways of dealing with. Hence, double recovery did not need to concern the court when considering the basis of the reflective loss principle: at [176] to [184]. The need to prevent double recovery was not a justification for the reflective loss principle, as it was not a sufficient justification for a blanket prohibition against recovery, it could not explain the contours of the reflective loss principle, and it required an assumption (which could not be made in many cases) that there was always an overlap between the loss caused to the company and the loss suffered by the shareholder: at [186] to [189]. Further, if the rationale was to prevent double recovery, the scope of the principle would become uncontrollable: at [190]. 24 While the minority’s position in Marex had significant force (at [194] to [196]), the difficulty was that these arguments assumed that the private law claims held by the shareholder were and should be kept distinct from the shareholder’s unique status under company law. This assumption was not warranted. A rule against such claims could be well-justified on the basis of the policy of company law even if the denial of recovery appeared unjust from a purely private law perspective: at [197].25 The fundamental nature of a share lay in the right it represented to participate in the company. The reflective loss principle was justified by the rule in Foss v Harbottle (1843) 2 Hare 461, which consisted of two aspects: (a) first, the proper plaintiff in a wrong done to the company was, prima facie, the company (ie, the proper plaintiff rule); and (b) second, the principle that the management of a company’s affairs was entrusted to the decision-making organs of the company (the “corporate management principle”): at [199].26 The reflective loss principle was the corollary of the proper plaintiff rule as it properly situated the shareholder’s loss in the context of the company’s loss. The shareholder had joined the fate of his investment to that of the company. Notably, a shareholder did not have a right to a dividend nor a right to a particular value of shares. The shares also did not represent a proportionate part of the company’s assets and a shareholder was not entitled to payment upon liquidation unless there was a surplus. What a shareholder ultimately received was subject entirely to the company’s fortunes. Wrongs done to the company were part and parcel of the company’s fortunes, and when the risk of such wrongs eventuated, the shareholder could not be heard to complain about a loss caused to the value of his investment: at [200].27 The reflective loss principle also ensured that the corporate management principle was maintained. To allow such claims would prevent the company from dealing with the wrongs done to it in the manner that it deemed fit. If shareholders were dissatisfied, they would have to take up the matter through the proper channels: at [202].28 While the reflective loss principle was a rule of principle and not just policy, it also had the benefit of being a bright line rule, which would provide clearer guidance as to what claims were permissible and would facilitate the company’s decision-making and ability to manage its own claims: at [205].29 The reflective loss principle was a rule of company law specifically arising from the unique status of shareholders. It was clear that the scope of the rule extended only to shareholders claiming as shareholders. The rule was only that claims by shareholders for the diminution in the value of their shareholdings or in distributions they receive as shareholders as a result of actionable loss suffered by their company cannot be maintained: at [206].30 Hence, the reflective loss principle had no application in this case, as Tendcare’s claim was not as a shareholder of TJHK for the diminution in the value of its shareholding or in distributions from TJHK: at [207].31 The risk of double recovery was not established on the facts. The parties in these proceedings were different from the proceedings in Hong Kong brought by TJHK’s liquidators against QHC. Mr Miao and QHC were two different legal persons and whatever was recovered in Hong Kong would not be due from Mr Miao and there was no risk that Mr Miao would be made to pay damages twice over. Further, no evidence has been provided to show how much TJHK would be able to recover from QHC and how much Tendcare would then be able to recover from TJHK: at [210]. Conclusion32 The appeal was allowed in part with costs. The Judge’s finding that Mr Miao was liable for the US$2m Transfer was reversed, but Mr Miao remained jointly and severally liable for US$4m on the basis of his dishonest assistance in relation to the US$4m Transfer: at [211].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
