
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 December 2021Case summaryUJM v UJL [2021] SGCA 117Originating Summons No 21 of 2021 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):CoA dismisses first application for leave to appeal against decision of the Appellate Division. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal considers the statutory scheme governing applications for leave to appeal against decisions of the Appellate Division (“AD” and “AD/CA Leave Applications”). •  The Court of Appeal considers the statutory provisions governing AD/CA Leave Applications and the existing common law principles governing applications for leave to appeal.•  The Court of Appeal lays down the applicable principles for AD/CA Leave Applications. Facts and background 1 In Noor Azlin bte Abdul Rahman and another v Changi General Hospital Pte Ltd [2021] 2 SLR 440 (“Noor Azlin (transfer)”), the Court of Appeal considered the wide-ranging amendments to the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (“SCJA”) which established the AD on 2 January 2021. The present application in OS 21 was the first AD/CA Leave Application and it presented a valuable opportunity for the court to consider a further aspect of this profound and momentous change to the Singapore court system: at [2]. 2 OS 21 was rooted in a matrimonial dispute arising from the division of matrimonial assets and costs in a Pakistani divorce under Islamic law. The applicant-husband (the “Husband”) and the respondent-wife (the “Wife”) were born in Pakistan but became Singapore citizens. They were married in Pakistan on 3 August 1995 under Islamic marriage laws and moved soon after to Singapore in mid-August 1995. They had four sons, all of whom are Singapore citizens. Both parties had been living in Singapore since 1995, except for a period when the Wife lived in Pakistan from 1999-2002 and another period in the lead-up to their divorce. The parties were divorced on 4 May 2016 by the court in Karachi, Pakistan: at [1], [5] and [8].3 OS 21 arose from the ex-tempore judgment of the AD in UJM v UJL [2021] SGHC(A) 10 (the “AD Judgment”) which affirmed the judgment of the General Division of the High Court judge (the “Gen Div Judge”) to grant financial relief to the Wife pursuant to Ch 4A of Pt X of the Women’s Charter (Cap 353, 2009 Rev Ed) arising out of her divorce from the Husband: at [3]. 4 OS 21 was the Husband’s application for leave to appeal against the whole of the AD Judgment. Prayer 1 of OS 21 sought “leave to file this application out of time” as OS 21 was filed late on 9 September 2021: at [20].  5 The court identified two issues for its determination in OS 21: (a) whether leave ought to be granted for OS 21 to be filed out of time; and (b) whether OS 21 was meritorious such that leave ought to be granted for the Husband to bring his appeal against the AD Judgment to the Court of Appeal (“Anticipated Appeal”): at [52].The Court of Appeal’s decision in OS 21 6 The court answered the first issue in the negative and dismissed OS 21 on the basis that it had been filed late with no explanation: at [54]–[56]. 7 The court nonetheless proceeded to consider the applicable statutory provisions and principles which pertained to AD/CA Leave Applications as OS 21 was the first of its kind to come before the court: at [56]. The applicable principles governing AD/CA Leave Applications Three key points framing the overall context in which AD/CA Leave Applications are brought8 At the outset, the court set out three key points which not only framed the overall context in which AD/CA Leave Applications would be brought, but also informed its analysis on the statutory scheme governing such applications (at [60]): a. First, AD/CA Leave Applications were brought in situations where the AD had already heard an appeal and delivered its decision. The parties would have already had an opportunity to litigate their disputes before an appellate court which usually sat as a coram of three judges. The parties were therefore seeking a “further appeal from the Appellate Division” by way of such an application: at [60(a)].b. Second, the AD was established for reasons that have both quantitative and qualitative roots – namely, to alleviate the growing caseload of the Court of Appeal whilst simultaneously permitting the Court of Appeal to focus its resources on matters which would benefit from its expertise as the apex court of the land: at [60(b)].c. Flowing from the above two points, the AD was “a court which in some respects is akin to an intermediate appellate court” (see Noor Azlin (transfer) at [2]). The key words in that sentence were “akin to” and not “intermediate appellate court”. While the Court of Appeal remained the apex court of Singapore with the AD located just under it in the court hierarchy, the AD was not meant to be seen as a “further tier” of appeal that had to be crossed before a matter could reach the Court of Appeal. In the vast majority of cases, once an appeal had been heard by the AD, the AD would serve as the final appellate court: at [60(c)]. An overview of the statutory scheme governing AD/CA Leave Applications9 The purpose of the statutory scheme governing AD/CA Leave Applications within the SCJA and the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”) was to provide a tightly confined and highly limited avenue for parties to appeal against certain decisions of the AD: at [61]. 10 Division 3 of the SCJA could be seen as the bedrock of the AD’s existence as a court “akin to” an intermediate appellate court. Its provisions reflected a fine balance; they highlighted that the AD would be the final appellate court in the vast majority of cases, while simultaneously underscoring the Court of Appeal’s status as the apex court of Singapore. This balance was achieved in six key ways: at [64]. a. First, the AD’s decision in respect of any case that fell within the Ninth Schedule to the SCJA was final, there being no further avenue of appeal that dissatisfied litigants could avail themselves of pursuant to s 46 of the SCJA: at [64(a)].b. Second, the Court of Appeal had the power to hear appeals against decisions of the AD in respect of cases that did not fall within the Ninth Schedule to the SCJA. Such appeals were termed “Eligible Appeals”: at [64(b)].c. Third, Eligible Appeals could not be brought automatically as of right. In all cases, parties had to first make an AD/CA Leave Application to the Court of Appeal to seek leave to bring an Eligible Appeal before the Court of Appeal under s 47(1) of the SCJA: at [64(c)].d. Fourth, the Court of Appeal could grant leave in respect of an Eligible Appeal “only if the appeal will raise a point of law of public importance” under s 47(2) of the SCJA. The provision therefore contained a threshold condition which, if not fulfilled, would automatically cut-off any prospect of the grant of leave. This was referred to as the “Threshold Merits Requirement”: at [64(d)]. e. Fifth, in deciding whether: (i) leave ought to be granted under s 47(1) of the SCJA; or (ii) the appeal fulfilled the Threshold Merits Requirement under s 47(2) of the SCJA, the Court of Appeal was to have regard to matters prescribed in the ROC pursuant to s 47(3) of the SCJA: at [64(e)]. f. Finally, even if the Eligible Appeal fulfilled the Threshold Merits Requirement under s 47(2) of the SCJA, the Court of Appeal had the discretion to decline to grant leave as stipulated under s 47(4) of the SCJA. In particular, s 47(4)(a) of the SCJA stated that “the Court of Appeal is not required to grant leave under subsection (1) even if the appeal will raise a point of law of public importance”: at [64(f)]. 11 The matters “prescribed by the Rules of Court” in s 47(3) of the SCJA referred to those contained in O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC. This rule further restricted the cases in which the Court of Appeal would grant leave in AD/CA Leave Applications under s 47 of the SCJA: at [65]–[66]. a. In addition to the Threshold Merits Requirement under s 47(2) of the SCJA, the Court of Appeal would also consider the further question of “whether it is appropriate for [the Court of Appeal] to hear a further appeal from the Appellate Division” pursuant to O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC when deciding whether to grant leave under s 47(1) of the SCJA. This was referred to as the “Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement”: at [66(a)]. b. In considering the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement, the Court of Appeal would take into account all relevant matters, including either one or both of the two stipulated matters under O 57 rr 2A(3)(a) or 2A(3)(b) of the ROC (collectively the “Stipulated Considerations”): at [66(b)]. Two perceived ambiguities in relation to the statutory scheme governing AD/CA Leave Applications12 The court resolved two perceived ambiguities in the statutory scheme governing AD/CA Leave Applications: at [67]. 13 The first ambiguity was whether the Stipulated Considerations ought to be considered under the Threshold Merits Requirement or the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement (collectively referred to as the “Requirements”): at [68].14 The court found that the Stipulated Considerations ought to be considered under the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement in relation to AD/CA Leave Applications. This was for three reasons: at [71]–[79]. a. First, a consideration of the AD/CA Leave Provisions as a whole revealed that the Stipulated Considerations featured only under the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement: at. [72]–[73].b. Second, this interpretation was aligned with Parliament’s intention as to the manner in which the Court of Appeal’s inquiry would proceed in AD/CA Leave Applications. Excerpts from the parliamentary debates in relation to the amendments to the SCJA in 2019 showed that a clear distinction was to be drawn between the two Requirements. The former was a rigid threshold condition that had to be fulfilled in order for the Court of Appeal to grant leave. The latter was a requirement that accorded the Court of Appeal a degree of flexibility in the exercise of its discretion. In line with this spirit of flexibility, the Court of Appeal was empowered to take into account “all relevant matters”, including either or both of the Stipulated Considerations under O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC. Further, it was clear from the excerpts that the legislative drafters had contemplated the Stipulated Considerations as falling only under the latter: at [74]–[75].c. Third, it was logical for the Stipulated Considerations to be considered only under the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement in the context of the AD/CA Leave Application. Both Stipulated Considerations would be fulfilled only in respect of points of law. This, in itself, was already a sub-requirement that had to be fulfilled under the Threshold Merits Requirement. It would be strange if the same sub-requirement of “point of law” would need to be considered twice under the threshold stage of the Court of Appeal’s inquiry in AD/CA Leave Applications, and again under the discretionary stage. There would be a curious duplication of effort if the Stipulated Considerations were relevant to both Requirements since if the Stipulated Considerations were satisfied under the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement, there would be no reason why they would not also satisfy the Threshold Merits Requirement: at [76].15 The second ambiguity was whether the fulfilment of both Requirements would guarantee the grant of leave under s 47(1) of the SCJA: at [80]. 16 The court held that the fulfilment of both Requirements only went towards increasing the applicant’s prospects of obtaining leave and not towards guaranteeing it. Order 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC merely stated that the Court of Appeal “is to have regard” to the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement. This meant that the fulfilment of the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement was but one of the considerations that the Court of Appeal could have regard to when deciding whether to grant leave. There was no mention of this requirement being determinative and furthermore “appropriateness” was not a monolithic concept. It was a matter of degree to be determined according to the unique facts and circumstances of the case. This view was supported by both the plain reading of the AD/CA Leave Provisions, as well as the purpose and object of O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC and the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement: at [82]. Interaction between the AD/CA Leave Provisions and the common law17 The court answered the question of whether the principles for leave to appeal against a decision of the Gen Div (ie, the former High Court) as set out in Lee Kuan Yew v Tang Liang Hong and another [1997] 2 SLR(R) 862 (“Lee Kuan Yew”) would continue to apply in AD/CA Leave Applications, in the negative: at [86]–[93].  18 AD/CA Leave Applications had to be assessed differently from Gen Div Leave Applications for three reasons (at [87]–[91]).a. First, and most importantly, the statutory provisions governing AD/CA Leave Applications mandated that such applications were to be assessed differently from the common law principles laid down in Lee Kuan Yew. Unlike Gen Div Leave Applications, statute laid down precise criteria by which AD/CA Leave Applications were to be assessed by the Court of Appeal (ie, the Threshold Merits Requirement and the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement): at [88].b. Second, Parliament made clear in no uncertain terms that AD/CA Leave Applications were to be assessed differently from Gen Div Leave Applications in terms of both the criteria and the stringency of review: at [89].c. Third, the common law principles and standards in Gen Div Leave Applications could not apply to AD/CA Leave Applications because the two applications were intrinsically different. Parties in the latter application would already have had “one round of appeal” such that they would have already raised the arguments before the AD, and the AD would have reviewed them and decided on that point of law. Appeals before the AD would usually be heard by a coram of three judges and the AD was meant to serve as the final appellate court in the vast majority of cases. This applied even for appeals against decisions of the Gen Div which were also appeals against the decisions of a lower court judge (for example, District Judges and Assistant Registrars) because these were usually heard by a single judge of the Gen Div. The application of the same common law principles to AD/CA Leave Applications would result in an absurd situation. It would mean that in every case where leave to bring an appeal against a decision of the Gen Div is granted by the AD, leave would ipso facto be granted in an AD/CA Leave Application against the eventual decision of the AD in the same case. Given that the AD was established to alleviate the growing caseload of the Court of Appeal, this would lead to the very strange and unintended (and even bizarre as well as contradictory) consequence where the Court of Appeal would become flooded with appeals and applications by the very same amendments to the SCJA which purported to quantitatively alleviate its case load: at [90]–[91].Interpretation of the AD/CA Leave ProvisionsThe Threshold Merits Requirement19 On the interpretation of the Threshold Merits Requirement, the court reiterated that this was a threshold condition which had to be fulfilled before the Court of Appeal could grant leave under s 47(1) of the SCJA: at [95]. 20 The requirement could be broken up into three parts: (a) “an appeal will raise”; (b) “a point of law”; and (c) “of public importance” (at [95] and [100]–[109]): a. On the interpretation of the words “the appeal will raise”, the court found that the analysis in Noor Azlin (transfer) at [54] was entirely applicable to s 47(2) of the SCJA and AD/CA Leave Applications. The court added that the point of law of public importance that “the appeal will raise” must have arisen from the decision and reasoning of the court below, ie, the AD. It would not be sufficient for an applicant to show that the Gen Div had considered the claimed point of law of public importance, if that same point had been abandoned by the parties or, for some reason or another, had not been raised before the AD: at [100]–[101] and [103].b. On the interpretation of the words “a point of law”, the court found the analysis in Noor Azlin (transfer) to be cogent and entirely applicable to s 47(2) of the SCJA and AD/CA Leave Applications: at [105]–[106].c. On the interpretation of the words, a point of law “of public importance”, the court found the observations in Noor Azlin (transfer) at [56]–[59] and [61]–[62], to be equally applicable to s 47(2) of the SCJA and AD/CA Leave Applications, save for the discussion on the Stipulated Considerations and whether it would be more appropriate for the Court of Appeal to hear an appeal than the AD. The proper consideration was, instead, whether it would be appropriate for the Court of Appeal to hear a further appeal from the AD: at [107]–[108].21 The purpose and object of s 47(2) of the SCJA and the Threshold Merits Requirement was for it to serve as a threshold condition which had to be fulfilled before the Court of Appeal could grant leave under s 47(1) of the SCJA. In other words, it served to sift out unmeritorious matters which did not deserve to be heard in a further appeal before the Court of Appeal from the outset – there would be no need to consider the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement if the Threshold Merits Requirement is not fulfilled. This was entirely in line with the speech of the Senior Minister of State for Law during the parliamentary debates regarding the amendments to the SCJA in 2019, the plain reading of the provision in the context of AD/CA Leave Applications as well as the statutory scheme governing it: at [110]–[112]. The Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement22 On the interpretation of the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement, the court found that the context which framed the Court of Appeal’s inquiry was found within the statutory formulation of the requirement itself in O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC. It involved a situation in which the AD had already heard an appeal and presumably dealt with the same legal issues which the applicant was seeking leave to litigate in a further appeal before the Court of Appeal. The context had to be informed by the status and powers that the Court of Appeal possessed as the apex court of the land and the court hierarchy as set out in the SCJA and the ROC: at [113]–[114]. 23 As a court akin to an intermediate appellate court, the AD had the power to overrule decisions of the Gen Div as well as other lower courts. It could depart from previous AD precedents but it did not have the powers, unlike the Court of Appeal to: (a) overturn or overrule other decisions of the AD; or (b) depart from decisions of the Court of Appeal: at [115]. 24 Reading O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC in the light of the above context, three things were immediately apparent about the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement: at [116]–[119]. a. First, in contrast to the Threshold Merits Requirement which functioned as a threshold condition for the grant of leave, the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement provided the Court of Appeal with the discretion to determine whether a further appeal against a decision of the AD ought to be heard: at [116]. b. Second, “appropriateness” was not a monolithic concept, but rather a matter of degree. Whether the threshold for leave had been crossed was to be determined according to the facts and circumstances of the case: at [117].c. Third, in determining whether the threshold had been crossed, the Court of Appeal had the flexibility to consider any and all matters that it considered relevant. This meant that its discretion in respect of the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement was a broad and wide-ranging one. That said, this discretion could only be exercised after considering, at the minimum, one of the two Stipulated Considerations under O 57 r 2A(3)(a) and O 57 r 2A(3)(b) of the ROC along with any other matter deemed relevant by the Court of Appeal: at [119].25 The first Stipulated Consideration was whether a decision of the Court of Appeal was required to resolve the point of law per O 57 r 2A(3)(a) of the ROC. The word “required” suggested that no court apart from the apex court would be capable of resolving the instant point of law that would arise in the appeal for which leave was being sought. It was not enough for the point of law to be novel, or for it to be one that had not been  considered by the Court of Appeal before. This was because the AD was well-equipped to resolve novel and complex points of law by virtue of the number of judges that usually constituted a coram of the AD, as well as their seniority and expertise. Situations which required a decision of the Court of Appeal to resolve a point of law would be rare and exceptional: at [120]. 26 The second Stipulated Consideration was whether the interests of the administration of justice, either generally or in the particular case, required the consideration by the Court of Appeal of the point of law per O 47 r 2A(3)(b) of the ROC: at [121].27 It was a stricter but, at the same time, more lenient provision than O 57 r 2A(3)(a) of the ROC. It was stricter because a decision of the Court of Appeal was not only “required” in a general sense, but also required for the specific purpose of furthering “the interests of the administration of justice”. It was more lenient because the words “generally or in the particular case” suggested that O 57 r 2A(3)(b) of the ROC could be fulfilled even where the interests of the administration of justice were furthered only in a particular case. This struck a good balance – the provision allowed the Court of Appeal to step in when it was absolutely crucial to further the administration of justice in a particular case, but at the same time prevented abuse of this provision by opportunistic litigants through imposing a heightened threshold of necessity: at [122].28 Cases where O 57 r 2A(3)(b) of the ROC would be engaged in relation to specific litigants or the particular case before the court would be few and far between, given the threshold condition that the point of law raised in the appeal had to be of “public importance” under s 47(2) of the SCJA: at [123].  29 Further, while it was difficult to prescribe hard and fast rules in respect of O 57 r 2A(3)(b) of the ROC, examples of cases in which the Court of Appeal’s consideration of a point of law may be required “in the interests of the administration of justice” may include those which will concern the functioning of crucial aspects of Singapore’s legal system or remedy serious injustice: at [124]. 30 Apart from the two Stipulated Considerations, it was presently unclear what other matters could be “relevant” to the Court of Appeal’s inquiry under O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC. The court found that it was not necessary at this juncture to lay out concrete rules in respect of what constituted a “relevant matter” for the purposes of OS 21. It sufficed to simply state that the Court of Appeal’s scrutiny in respect of any allegedly “relevant matter” had to be searching so as to prevent the abuse of the statutory scheme governing AD/CA Leave Applications. Bearing in mind the purpose and object of the statutory provisions which animated the AD, only a truly exceptional case would warrant the grant of leave: at [125]–[126]. 31 The above reading of the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement and O 57 r 2A(3) of the ROC was in line with their two-fold purpose to: (a) act as a fine-meshed sieve to further restrict the number of cases which would warrant a further appeal before the Court of Appeal; and (b) accord the Court of Appeal a broad and wide-ranging discretion to determine whether to hear a further appeal against a decision of the AD: at [127]. Considering the merits of OS 2132 For completeness, the court also considered the merits of OS 21: at [129]. 33 OS 21 failed at the outset as the Husband had failed to show that the Anticipated Appeal fulfilled the Threshold Merits Requirement. All of the six questions that the Husband claimed would “raise a point of law of public importance” fell far short of fulfilling the said requirement because they were self-evidently not questions of law, but rather, were questions of fact: at [131]–[135]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
