
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27 October 2023Case summaryNg Kok Wai v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGHC 306--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The High Court dismisses the appellant’s appeal against conviction for house-breaking and theft committed on board a foreign-registered cruise ship whilst the ship was sailing on the high seas. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  An accused person may be tried and convicted in Singapore for acts committed outside of Singapore where: (a) a statutory provision applies that renders an act committed outside Singapore an offence under a Singapore law; and (b) there is an applicable statutory provision that confers on the Singapore courts, jurisdiction to try the accused person for the offence in question: at [16]. •  Where an act that is proscribed under Singapore law is committed on the high seas, the Singapore courts will have jurisdiction to try the accused person for such acts under and subject to the terms of s 15 of the Supreme Court Of Judicature Act 1969 (2020 Rev Ed) (“SCJA”) (in respect of the jurisdiction of the General Division of the High Court), s 50 of the State Courts Act 1970 (2020 Rev Ed) (“SCA”) (in respect of the District Court’s criminal jurisdiction) and s 51 of the SCA (in respect of the Magistrates’ Court’s criminal jurisdiction): at [21]. •  Acts or omissions committed outside the territory of Singapore would generally not constitute an offence under Singapore law because such acts are usually not within the reach of the applicable domestic criminal legislation. This is so unless some other statutory provision exists that extends the application of the domestic criminal legislation extraterritorially or if the statutory offence itself reflects Parliament’s intention that it is to apply extraterritorially: at [26].•  Section 3 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”) permits the extraterritorial application of Penal Code offences to cover offending acts committed outside the territory of Singapore, so long as there exists a jurisdictional provision empowering the Singapore court to try a person for an alleged offence committed outside of Singapore: at [48]–[49].Background to the appeal and material facts1 In December 2021, while on board a Bahamas-registered cruise ship (“the Ship”) that was sailing on the South China Sea, Ng Kok Wai (“the Appellant”) broke into the victim’s cabin, opened the victim’s luggage, took her brassiere and with it, exited the cabin through the front door. On returning to Singapore, the Appellant was charged with having committed theft and house-breaking under ss 380 and 451 of the Penal Code respectively (“the Charges”). 2 The Appellant was tried before the District Judge (“the DJ”) for the Charges. He did not dispute that he broke into the victim’s cabin on the Ship and removed her brassiere from the cabin without her consent. It is therefore not in dispute that the factual elements of the Charges are made out. It was, however, common ground between the parties that the relevant provisions of the Penal Code did not in themselves apply beyond the boundaries of Singapore. The Appellant thus claimed trial solely on the basis that he could not be held criminally liable in Singapore for his actions which took place outside of Singapore on a Bahamas-flagged ship on the high seas. The Appellant contended that those provisions of the Penal Code did not apply to him whilst he was on a foreign-registered ship on the high seas. This was the only issue that the DJ was required to determine.3 The DJ held that ss 380 and 451 of the Penal Code did have extraterritorial effect by virtue of s 178 of the Merchant Shipping Act (Cap 179, 1996 Rev Ed) (“MSA”). Further, s 180 of the MSA conferred on the Singapore courts the jurisdiction to hear and determine the Charges.4 The Appellant filed HC/MA 9234 of 2022/01 (“the Appeal”) seeking to appeal against his conviction. The Appellant’s sole contention was that the DJ erred in holding that s 178 of the MSA extended the Penal Code offences with which he was charged extraterritorially to proscribe his acts carried out on board the Ship, while the Ship was sailing on the high seas. According to the Appellant, there was no applicable statutory provision, whether under the MSA or under the Penal Code, that applied to extend the relevant Penal Code offences extraterritorially. He also contended that s 180 of the MSA did not apply to him.Decision on appealThe applicable legal principles 5 Section 9A of the Interpretation Act 1965 (2020 Rev Ed) mandates a purposive approach in interpreting a statutory provision. This requires that the Singapore courts undertake a three-step approach. First, the possible interpretations of the provision must be ascertained, having regard to both the text of the provision and its context within the written law as a whole. Second, the legislative purpose or object of the specific provision and the part of the legislation in which the provision is situated must be ascertained. Third, the possible interpretations of the text are then compared against the purposes or objects of the statute; the interpretation that advances those purposes or objects is preferred over one that does not: at [14].6 An accused person may be tried and convicted in Singapore for acts committed outside of Singapore where there is: (a) an applicable statutory provision that renders an act committed outside Singapore an offence under Singapore law (“extraterritorial application provision”); and (b) an applicable statutory provision that confers on the Singapore courts the authority to try the accused person for the offence in question (“jurisdictional provisions”): at [15]–[16].7 The criminal jurisdiction of the District Courts, meaning their authority to hear and determine a criminal matter, is generally set out in s 50 of the State Courts Act 1970 (2020 Rev Ed) (“SCA”). The District Court has the power and authority to try the Appellant for the alleged offences he committed while on board the Ship by virtue of s 50(2)(c) of the SCA, which permits the District Court to try offences committed by a Singaporean citizen on the high seas. Here, the Appellant is a Singapore citizen and the relevant acts occurred on the high seas: at [21]–[23].8 Acts or omissions committed outside the territory of Singapore would generally not constitute an offence because such acts are usually not within the reach of the applicable domestic criminal legislation. This may be different if some other statutory provision exists that extends the application of the domestic criminal legislation extraterritorially or if the statutory offence itself reflects Parliament’s intention that it is to apply extraterritorially: at [26].Section 178 of the MSA9 The court agreed with the DJ that s 178 of the MSA is an extraterritorial application which deems acts committed abroad as having been committed wherever the accused person may be located and it is clear that this aspect of the provision will invariably be invoked where the accused person is in Singapore. The court disagreed, however, with the DJ’s conclusion that s 178 unambiguously applies to every act or omission constituting a criminal offence under any statute, and not just under the MSA: at [41].10 The plain wording of s 178 of the MSA and in particular the words “any offence” can be construed as referring to either offences under the MSA or offences generally under Singapore criminal law. To resolve this ambiguity, reference to extrinsic material is necessary. The Explanatory Statement to the Merchant Shipping Bill 1995 makes it clear that Parliament intended s 178 to apply only to offences under the MSA; s 178 therefore does not permit the extraterritorial application of offences under the Penal Code: at [44]–[47]. Section 3 of the Penal Code11 The plain reading of s 3 of the Penal Code is unambiguous. This provision permits the extraterritorial application of Penal Code offences to cover offending acts committed outside the territory of Singapore, so long as there exists a jurisdictional provision empowering the Singapore court to try a person for an alleged offence committed outside of Singapore: at [49]–[50]. 12 This interpretation of s 3 of the Penal Code is supported by its legislative history. The Penal Code’s origin can be traced to the Indian Penal Code 1860 (the “IPC”). The IPC was enacted as law in Singapore on 16 September 1872 through Ordinance IV of 1871 when Singapore was part of the Straits Settlement. Not only is s 3 of the IPC worded in substantively the same language as s 3 of the Penal Code, the effect of s 3 of the IPC is to permit persons who have committed acts abroad that would constitute an offence punishable under the IPC to be tried for that offence before the Indian courts, provided there exists a separate jurisdictional provision conferring on the Indian courts the power to try such offences. Given that s 3 of the Penal Code has remained substantially intact since its adaptation from the IPC into the Straits Settlement Penal Code, this suggests that Parliament intended for s 3 of the Penal Code to operate in the same manner as s 3 of the IPC: at [51]–[55].13 Section 3 of the Penal Code applies in the present case by virtue of s 50(2)(c) of the SCA, which confers onto the District Court the jurisdiction to try offences committed “by any person who is a citizen of Singapore on the high seas”. Accordingly, s 3 of the Penal Code deems the Appellant’s acts on board the ship as though they occurred in Singapore, and therefore the Appellant has committed acts that are punishable under ss 380 and 451 of the Penal Code: at [56].14 Reading s 3 of the Penal Code in this way with s 50(2) of the SCA (or the equivalent statutory provisions in respect of the criminal jurisdiction of the General Division of the High Court and the Magistrates’ Courts) will not lead to the overly-wide extraterritorial application of the Penal Code. This is because these jurisdictional provisions all require a material nexus to Singapore. Thus, no person who has committed in the territory of a foreign state an act which is criminalised in Singapore, shall be liable to be tried in Singapore for having committed an offence unless there is a specific legislative provision having this effect: at [57].Observations on s 180 of the MSA15 There is some controversy as to whether the effect of s 686(1) of the UK Merchant Shipping Act 1894 (“UK MSA 1894”) (which is worded similarly to s 180 of the MSA) only extends the authority of the courts to hear offences or also extends the extraterritorial application of offences criminalised under UK law: at [61].16 The court observed provisionally that s 686(1) of the UK MSA 1894 (and hence s 180 of the MSA) may be interpreted as a jurisdictional provision. First, a contextual reading of the title and body of s 686(1) suggests that this provision was intended to refer to the court’s authority to try such offences. Second, the use of the word “offence” rather than the words “act or omission” suggests the existence of some other extraterritorial application provision which deems the act or omission committed abroad as having been committed in the UK and therefore constituting an “offence” under UK criminal law: at [65].17 The court also observed provisionally that s 180 of the MSA may be applicable only to offences punishable under the MSA. Such a reading is supported by its context, and is consonant with the overall purpose of the MSA, which is to govern the functions of the Marine Department and to provide for regulation in respect of the shipping industry: at [76]–[77].18 In so far as the UK House of Lords in R v Kelly [1982] AC 665 (“Kelly”) considered that s 686(1) of the UK MSA 1894 was not limited to offences under the UK MSA 1894, the court observed that it was not bound to follow Kelly. In particular, Kelly was decided at a time before the distinction between “extraterritorial application provisions” and “jurisdictional provisions” was fully developed and recognised: at [78]–[79].19 A person “on board any foreign ship to which he does not belong” within the meaning of s 180 of the MSA may be construed as either including passengers on board a ship, or confined to persons who boarded a ship in an unlawful manner and who committed an offence on that ship: at [80].20 The legislative history of s 180 of the MSA, which can be traced to s 686(1) of the UK MSA 1894, s 21 of the UK Merchant Shipping Act 1855 and s 11 of the UK Merchant Shipping Act 1867, does not shed any light on the precise classes of persons to which this provision applies: at [81]–[82].21 The words “does not belong” in s 180 of the MSA may be construed as referring to those who are not the crew members of a foreign ship for three reasons. First, the word “belong” is used in conjunction with “crew members” in other provisions of the MSA. If “belong” is to have a consistent meaning throughout the MSA, the phrase “does not belong” in s 180 of the MSA should be read as excluding crew members. Second, this reading is consistent with and supported by the general rule in international law that the flag State exercises exclusive jurisdiction over the crew. Third, the fact that the crew of the foreign ship is excluded from the operation of s 180 can be explained as an exercise of jurisdictional restraint by Singapore so as not to impact the operation of a foreign-registered ship: at [87]–[92].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
