
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE1 December 2021Case SummaryWong Tian Jun De Beers v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 273Magistrate’s Appeal No 9101 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Sundaresh Menon CJ:Outcome: High Court enhances sentence imposed to a total of eight years and five months’ imprisonment and a fine of S$20,000. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Expert witnesses owe a duty to the court to ensure that their evidence is reliable and fit for court use. Failure to comply with such a duty raises serious questions in respect of the expert and also of the solicitors who may have instructed the expert and who will have considered the expert’s report before seeking to rely on it. The courts will not hesitate to altogether reject evidence which is simply not fit for purpose: at [19].•  The charges under s 417 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”) were made out on the instant facts. Even though the offence under s 417 is situated in Chapter XVII of the Penal Code, which pertains to offences against property, it was nonetheless broad enough to capture the present offences. However, the offence of cheating simpliciter did not appear to fully reflect the grievous bodily intrusion experienced by the victims on the present facts. Rather, it might, at least, have been arguable that the offence of rape under s 375 of the Penal Code could have been made out on the instant facts: at [31]–[33].•  A harm-culpability matrix provides a sentencing framework for offences under s 417 of the Penal Code that entail cheating to procure sex and other sexual acts, and ought to be adopted: at [40]–[41].Background to the appeal1 The Appellant pleaded guilty to and was convicted of ten charges. Seven charges were for cheating under s 417 of the Penal Code, two were for criminal intimidation under the second limb of s 506 of the Penal Code (as was in force prior to 1 January 2020), and the remaining charge was for an offence under s 29(1)(a) of the Films Act (Cap 107, 1998 Rev Ed) (the “Films Act”). A further 26 charges, comprising charges for cheating, criminal intimidation, and under the Films Act, were taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing.  2 The Appellant’s offending took place in the context of what was essentially a scam he perpetrated in order to procure sex for his own gratification. As outlined in the Statement of Facts (“SOF”), which the Appellant admitted to without qualification, he “wanted to look for paid sex”, but was unwilling to pay the prices he had seen online for such services. The Appellant accordingly devised a scheme to falsely represent that he was a “freelance agent” for “sugar daddies” who procured “sugar babes” for his well-to-do clients. The Appellant claimed, among other things, that he needed to receive and/or take nude images or videos and engage in sexual acts with women who wanted to be “sugar babes” in order to assess whether he could recommend them to his wealthy clients. However, there were in fact no such wealthy clients, and the Appellant was merely scamming the victims for sex and sexually explicit material. This scheme ensnared at least 11 female victims, who were aged between 18 and 24 years, and went on unabated from April 2015 to February 2016 before the Appellant was reported to the authorities.3 In furtherance of his deception, the Appellant did the following:a. He created (falsified) chat conversations which appeared to be between himself and his clients in order to convince the victims of the veracity of his narrative. The falsified chat conversations were directed towards the particular acts the Appellant sought to convince the victim(s) in question to provide him.b. He showed the victims photos of nude women and claimed that those women had in fact complied with his demands to send him nude photos of themselves. The Appellant used photos and videos of women he alleged were “sugar babes” he had linked with his wealthy clients to further his scheme.c. The Appellant also made time-specific enticements to the victims if they expressed any reluctance or hesitancy. When a number of his victims expressed reluctance, he falsely represented that a client was travelling to Singapore in a matter of days, and that the said client was eager to meet the potential “sugar babe” in question. However, the Appellant would then claim that he had to provide an assessment of the potential “sugar babe’s” sexual performance before the client would be willing to meet her. 4 In addition, the Appellant undertook the following measures to avoid detection:a. First, the Appellant made sure to use a false name in order to avoid detection. He went by the pseudonyms “Kel”, “Don”, and “Onisac” in order to avoid detection and to prevent his true identity from being known to his victims.b. Second, the Appellant pressured at least one of his victims to shift from communicating over WhatsApp to using WeChat, saying “it was safer” to use WeChat.c. Third, the Appellant exploited the fact that he held nude photos and/or videos of the victims to deter any of them from going to the police. The Appellant was also entirely comfortable with threatening the victims using these photos and/or videos if they did not comply with his demands. Among other things, the Appellant threatened one particular victim that he was “going to flood the Internet with your photo stating that u are looking for sugardaddy [sic]”. When another victim raised the possibility of reporting the Appellant to the police, he went so far as to tell her that “now I have to pass your photo to my friends incase [sic] anything happen [sic] to me they will use the photos as they wish”.By use of these deceptions, the Appellant was able to procure, among other things, unprotected penile-vaginal sex, unprotected oral sex, and the receipt and/or creation of several sexually explicit videos and photos from the victims.5 Before the District Judge (“DJ”), the Prosecution sought a sentence of at least 30 months’ imprisonment, while the Defence sought no more than 24 months’ imprisonment. The DJ imposed an aggregate sentence of 42 months’ imprisonment and a fine of S$20,000 (in default one month’s imprisonment).6 On appeal against the sentence imposed, the Appellant contended that the DJ (a) failed to attribute sufficient mitigating weight to his psychiatric condition, (b) erred in placing undue weight on certain aggravating factors, and (c) erred in running five sentences consecutively. The Prosecution did not appeal. 7 At the hearing of this appeal, and having heard both parties, the Court indicated concern as to whether the individual sentences imposed for the various cheating charges had been properly calibrated, noting that this may result in the sentence being enhanced, and accordingly gave liberty for further written submissions to be made. In the Appellant’s further written submissions, the Appellant argued that only two sentences ought to run consecutively if the individual sentences were enhanced, while the Prosecution submitted on appeal that an aggregate sentence of seven years’ imprisonment ought to be imposed. The Court’s decision8 The Court dismissed MA 9101 of 2021 and enhanced the sentence imposed on the Appellant to eight years and five months’ imprisonment and a fine of S$20,000 (in default one month’s imprisonment).9 The law on what is expected of psychiatric evidence is clear, and imposes unambiguous duties on psychiatrists. These duties cannot be satisfied by mere recitation of a statement that the psychiatrist is cognisant that his duty lies to the Court. Rather, they are substantive and weighty duties which a psychiatrist takes on, with serious consequences should they be breached. Expert witnesses owe a duty to the court to ensure that their evidence is reliable and fit for court use. Failure to comply with such a duty raises serious questions in respect of the expert and also of the solicitors who may have instructed the expert. The courts will not hesitate to reject evidence which is simply not fit for purpose. When such evidence is rejected, the consequences may well extend beyond making an adverse costs order: at [16]–[19]. 10 The psychiatric report prepared by Dr Ung Eng Khean (“Dr Ung”) the Appellant sought to rely on was of no assistance. First, as the report itself acknowledged, it was predicated entirely on the truthfulness of the information the Appellant provided. Put another way, Dr Ung was provided with no independent information he could rely on in the preparation of the report apart from the narrative the Appellant gave him. This was problematic because, as it turned out, the account the Appellant provided was riven with falsehoods. Second, and in any event, the Appellant only consulted Dr Ung in end-2020, more than four years after the time the offences were commissioned. There was no reasoning in the report explaining how Dr Ung was able to extrapolate his conclusions based on consultations in October and November 2020 to what the Appellant was suffering some five years prior: at [21] and [25].11 The charges under s 417 of the Penal Code were made out on the instant facts. Even though the offence under s 417 is situated in Chapter XVII of the Penal Code, which pertains to offences against property, it was nonetheless broad enough to capture the present offences. However, the offence of cheating simpliciter did not appear to fully reflect the grievous bodily intrusion experienced by the victims on the present facts. Rather, it might, at least, have been arguable that the offence of rape under s 375 of the Penal Code could have been made out, particularly by reference to s 90 of the Penal Code: at [31]–[33]. 12 In cases such as the present, involving cheating to procure sex and other sexual acts, a harm-culpability matrix may be adopted given (a) the narrow and more constrained forms in which this particular species of the offence might take, and (b) the fact that the harm engendered can fall at the very highest and most intrusive end of the spectrum depending on the nature of the relevant sexual acts. The harm engendered in cheating to procure sex is not commensurable to mere property damage, and represents a grave intrusion into bodily integrity. A sentencing framework is thus appropriate. The framework proposed accounted for the full range of sentences provided for in the offence-creating provision, and did not ignore the higher ranges of the sentences that could be imposed: at [38]–[40].13 Applying the framework proposed to the charges under s 417 of the Penal Code in the present case, it was clear that the harm engendered was at the very highest end. The Appellant had procured penetrative sex from the victims, which represented one of the most grievous intrusions of bodily autonomy. As for the Appellant’s culpability, it was at the very highest end of the spectrum. Not only did the Appellant act with clear premeditation and subterfuge, his behaviour was simply cruel. He showed no remorse or doubt whatsoever when going about his spree of offending behaviour. Accordingly, the starting point applicable for the charges under s 417 of the Penal Code, all of which entailed cheating which gave rise at the very least to penile-vaginal penetration, was between 27 and 36 months’ imprisonment: at [42]–[45].14 Beyond the nuances in determining the indicative starting points, the precise sentences imposed for each proceeded charge depend on the specific acts each proceeded charge entailed, as well as all of the relevant aggravating and mitigating factors applicable to each charge. In this regard, the Appellant contended that the DJ had placed undue weight on the aggravating factors, and insufficient weight on the mitigating factors. This was unfounded:a. It could not be said that the Appellant’s acts were anything but highly premeditated – he wove an elaborate tale about being a “freelance agent” for “clients” and “business partners”, and even sought to corroborate that story by concocting false exchanges of messages that he then took screenshots of and sent to the victims.b. The ability of victims to exercise their own independent thought was not a bar to them being vulnerable. What made the present group of victims vulnerable was the fact that they were duped by the Appellant and ensnared in a vicious trap by his compromising them, while he secured sexually explicit photos and videos and sexual acts under false pretences for his own gratification.c. The fact of the Appellant’s clean record was one that should not be over-emphasised. While the Appellant was untraced, he had committed no fewer than thirty-six separate offences over the course of around a year. Any mitigating weight which might have been placed on his clean record was, when seen in that context, non-existent. The Appellant was simply “fortunate”, in a manner of speaking, to not have been caught earlier.In the circumstances, it could not be said that the Judge erred at all in considering the various mitigating and aggravating factors. Applying these factors to the sentencing framework promulgated, an uplift in the sentences for the offences under s 417 of the Penal Code was eminently warranted: at [49] and [50]15 As for the charges under s 506 of the Penal Code, the Court opined that the sentences imposed by the DJ were based on precedents which were unduly low, but declined to develop or lay down a structured framework for sentencing because of, among other reasons, the fact that sentencing for those charges was not canvassed on appeal. Accordingly, the Court did not disturb the sentences imposed for the charges under s 506 of the Penal Code. The Court adopted a similar approach for the charge under s 29(1)(a) of the Films Act, for similar reasons: at [57]–[59].16 As for the running of the sentences, it was clear that the charges relating to each separate victim were unrelated and, presumptively, ought to be run consecutively. However, the DJ did not consider whether the multiple offences committed against the same victims were themselves only a “single invasion of the same legally protected interest”. In particular, the cheating charge pertaining to ‘Belle’ operated against the Appellant’s invasion of ‘Belle’s’ interest to not be deceived and suffer loss as a result, in this case by permitting the Appellant to take nude photos and have sex with her. However, the criminal intimidation charge pertaining to ‘Belle’ operated against the Appellant’s invasion of ‘Belle’s’ interest to not be placed under unlawful duress such that she was compelled to not report his acts to the police. It would thus appear that all nine offences which attract custodial sentences were unrelated, and that as a prima facie position, all nine sentences ought to run consecutively: at [63] and [64].17 If all nine custodial sentences imposed were to be run consecutively, as would be the case if the analysis ended at the second stage of the analytical framework for sentencing multiple offenders, the total sentence would be 255 months’ imprisonment, or 21 years and three months. However, given the application of the totality principle, such a sentence would not be appropriate. While the first limb of the totality principle was not of great assistance, the second limb sufficed to provide a basis to determine an appropriate overall sentence. Under the second limb, the Court has to consider whether the effect of the sentence on the offender would be crushing and not in accordance with his past record and future prospects. Fundamentally, this assessment centres on identifying an aggregate sentence which is condign to the offender’s behaviour and prospects. The emphasis must be on the aggregate sentence matching and being proportionate to the offending behaviour: at [67] and [68].18 Running four sentences consecutively for a total imprisonment term of 113 months (or nine years and five months), would be appropriate on the instant facts. However, a further sentencing discount of a year may be extended to the Appellant, on account of his plea of guilt having saved the victims from needing to testify and relive the trauma caused by his acts. This would bring the final sentence that should be imposed on the Appellant to eight years and five months’ imprisonment, and a fine of S$20,000 for the Films Act charge (in default one month’s imprisonment). This final sentence was warranted because, among other reasons, it reflected something of the seriousness of the offences the Appellant commissioned, and the grievous extent of bodily intrusion against the victims those offences entailed, within the constraints of the charges that were brought against him: at [69] and [70].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
