
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE30 November 2021Case summaryJumadi bin Abdullah v Public Prosecutor and another appeal and another [2021] SGCA 113Criminal Appeals No. 1, 2 and 3 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong)Outcome: CoA dismisses criminal appeal and affirms convictions of three drug traffickers.  Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Section 33B of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) is a mechanism which necessarily incentivises cooperation with the authorities. Its legal effect is brought to an accused person’s attention by a notice (“the MDP Notice”) and the MDP Notice is objectively not a threat, inducement or promise for the purposes of s 258(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”).•  There may be a conceptual difference between the phone and its contents; the admission of one into evidence may not necessitate the admission of the other. 1 These were appeals brought against the convictions and sentences of the first and second appellants (“Jumadi” and “Shisham” respectively), and the sentence of the third appellant (“Salzawiyah”). Background to the appeal2 Jumadi and Shisham were charged with trafficking, in furtherance of the common intention of the appellants, 127 packets containing not less than 41.86g of diamorphine, an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the MDA and read with s 34 of the Penal Code. The judge below (“the Judge”) convicted them and imposed the mandatory death penalty. 3 Salzawiyah faced a non-capital charge of trafficking, in furtherance of the common intention of the accused persons, 127 packets containing not less than 14.99g of diamorphine, an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the MDA and read with s 34 of the Penal Code. She was convicted of the charge and sentenced to 29 years’ imprisonment.Facts/ The material facts4 On the morning of 22 June 2017, Jumadi and Shisham brought about $11,000 to Changi South Lane to purchase the Drugs before returning to the one bedroom unit which Jumadi shared with Salzawiyah (“the Unit”). At 2.13pm of the same day, officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) raided the Unit, finding the Drugs variously located in the Unit’s living room and bedroom.Decision on appeal5 Jumadi challenged the voluntariness of his statements on two grounds:a. The first, was that a CNB officer had made a promise to him that if he cooperated with CNB, and admitted to owning the drugs, he would not be sentenced to death (“the Promise”). The Court of Appeal dismissed his argument. There was no evidence of any conversation (where the Promise could have been conveyed) prior to the recording of Jumadi’s first statement. The contemporaneous evidence contradicted Jumadi’s assertions and he did not call as witnesses any of the people who were present at the time the Promise was allegedly conveyed. Jumadi’s testimony was also internally contradictory and inherently incredible. b. The second, was that the MDP Notice in the present case “invited” Jumadi to provide information to the CNB for the purpose of disrupting drug trafficking activities. This supposedly changed the character of the MDP Notice, bringing it outside the exception created in Explanation 2(aa) of s 258(3) of the CPC. That explanation states only that where an accused is “informed” of the conditions in s 33B of the MDA, it will not render any statement inadmissible. The Court of Appeal did not accept Jumadi’s argument. The MDP Notice is itself an explanatory document intended to give an accused person fair notice of the laws at play upon his arrest. All MDP Notices are, in some way, an invitation to provide information. Naturally, informing an accused person of the conditions under s 33B would incentivise them to cooperate but that is why Explanation 2(aa) of s 258(3) of the CPC exists in the first place. 6 Jumadi also raised two defences: a. The “Mistake Defence” was that he had received some of the drugs found in the Unit by mistake. He was arranging for an opportunity to return them to his supplier. He argued that his testimony ought to be given greater weight as his co-accused, Shisham, had chosen not to take the stand. The Court of Appeal rejected the argument, stating that it was entitled to reject Jumadi’s testimony as it was internally inconsistent and ultimately against the weight of the objective evidence. b. The “Ownership Defence” was that some of the drugs found in the bedroom of the Unit were not his. The Court of Appeal rejected this argument as well, observing that he had been selective in his reliance on the evidence and that the Judge had fully understood the Ownership Defence in the proceedings below. The Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s findings and the rejection of the Ownership Defence.  7 There was a dispute in the proceedings below about a call allegedly made at 4pm on 21 June 2017 (“the 4pm Call”). This arose in the context of Jumadi’s Mistake Defence. The Prosecution claimed that Jumadi and Shisham had called their supplier (Vishu) together, and placed an order for five batu on 21 June 2017 at 4pm. Jumadi claimed that call had never connected. Instead, Jumadi claimed that the orders were only placed during later calls with Vishu. Jumadi claimed that during those later calls, he only ordered 2 batu of diamorphine. 8 To determine whether the 4pm Call had connected, the trial judge authorised the Prosecution to break the sealed envelope containing Shisham’s mobile phone in the presence of the co-accused and their respective counsel. On appeal, Jumadi challenged this decision claiming it was impermissible, and that the contents of the call records should have been proven by a witness summoned under s 281(3) of the CPC.9 The Court of Appeal held that the 4pm Call was not material and did not amount to a gap in the Prosecution’s case. The elements of the charge of trafficking could have been and were in fact, proven on other grounds. Importantly, the undeniable fact is that Jumadi was caught in possession of 41.86 grams of diamorphine – the 4pm Call and whether it connected, could not change this fact.10 That said, the Court of Appeal observed that the Judge’s approach, though practical, ultimately treated the phone and its contents as one and the same: the admission of one into evidence, necessitated the admission of the other. However, on a conceptual level, there may be some difference between the phone and its contents. Accordingly, there may be issues with such a practical approach, such as the possibility of contamination of evidence when digital receptacles such as phones are switched on. As it is not necessary for us to decide on this point for the appeal, these are merely our passing observations and we reserve our views when the court has the benefit of full submissions on this precise issue.11 As for Shisham, he claimed to have been a mere addict, who stayed with Jumadi and Salzawiyah (for free) at the Unit. On appeal, he claimed the Judge ought to have regarded Jumadi’s statements with caution since Jumadi had admitted to fabricating parts of it and had gone as far as to challenge their voluntariness. His conviction, which relied on Jumadi’s statements, ought accordingly to be set aside. The Court of Appeal found that the Judge had rightly rejected Shisham’s defence. Jumadi’s testimony, though inconsistent at points, was broadly consistent in describing Shisham’s role in the trafficking operations. Moreover, there was ample objective evidence that supported Shisham’s conviction, even without reference to Jumadi’s statements. Finally, Shisham’s defence was inherently incredible, and he offered no explanation that convinced the Court of Appeal otherwise of his defence’s credibility.12 Salzawiyah’s appeal against sentence was rejected by the Court of Appeal as well. Her criminal behaviour had worsened after her last period of incarceration. The facts which she tried to rely on in mitigation were not accepted at trial, and having accepted her conviction, she could not challenge them on appeal. Finally, the fact that she had a young child and would not be able to secure employment after prison were examples of hardship that are part and parcel of conviction – absent any exceptional circumstances, they could not be mitigating.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
