
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE26 November 2021Case summaryCLQ v CLR [2021] SGHC(I) 15SIC/OS 7/2021------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Kannan Ramesh J, Sir Henry Bernard Eder IJ and Anselmo Reyes IJ:Outcome: the SICC dismissed the plaintiff’s application under s 10(3) of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“the IAA”) challenging the decision of an arbitral tribunal that it had jurisdiction.Background1 Pursuant to an order of court, the identities of the parties and any related persons or entities were anonymised. The fictional country of “Ruritania” was used to refer to the country where the events which were the focus of the dispute took place. 2 The plaintiff, CLQ, is the government of Ruritania (“the Government”). The government entered into a joint venture agreement (“the JVA”) to develop a site in Ruritania (“the Site”) with the defendant, CLR, a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands (“the Developer”). Ruritania’s finance minister signed the JVA on behalf of the Government. The JVA was dated 18 January 2013 and was to be governed, interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of England. Under the JVA, parties were to register a joint venture company (“the JVC”). The Government would then lease the Site to the JVC under a master lease agreement (“the MLA”). This lease was to last for at least 50 years. The JVA also contained an arbitration agreement (“the Arbitration Agreement”).3 The Developer submitted two applications to Ruritania’s corporate regulator (“the MOC”) in January and February of 2013 for registration of the JVC. Both were rejected. The Developer thereafter wrote to the MOC requesting an explanation for the rejection. The MOC wrote a letter explaining why, but it is common ground that the Developer never had sight of this letter. The letter stated that the reason why the applications were rejected was because the Developer did not submit a letter of approval from the President’s Office of Ruritania (“the President’s Office”) for the registration of the JVC. This requirement was set out in a letter from the President’s Office to the MOC dated 19 March 2013.4 The JVC remained unregistered, and on 19 September 2013, the Developer commenced proceedings (“the Ruritanian Proceedings”) in the Ruritanian court by filing a “plaint form” (“the Plaint”). The Ruritanian Proceedings were commenced against the MOC, Ruritania’s finance ministry (“the MOF”), and Ruritania’s tourism ministry (“the MOT”) for orders for the registration of the JVC, and the signing of the MLA. The MOC was named as it is the regulator responsible for registering companies. The MOT was named as it was the Developer’s position that it was the ministry that would have to sign the MLA on behalf of the Government. 5 Over the course of the Ruritanian Proceedings, other documents were filed, and the parties made several statements. On 5 March 2014, the Developer also tendered a draft copy of the MLA (“the draft MLA”) to the Ruritanian court, the terms of which were disputed by the Government. Notably, the obligation to execute the MLA under the JVA was not disputed by the Government in the Ruritanian Proceedings.6 On 15 July 2014, the Ruritanian court delivered judgment (“the Ruritanian Judgment”), ordering the MOC to register the JVC, and for the draft MLA to be signed. However, whilst the JVC was registered, the MLA was not signed, and the JVA never got off the ground. 7 On 18 December 2019, the Developer filed Notice of Arbitration against the Government, alleging repudiatory breach of the JVA. An arbitral tribunal constituted by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“the Tribunal”) was convened. In response, the Government raised a jurisdictional challenge which was heard on 4 January 2021. The challenge was on the basis that the commencement of the Ruritanian Proceedings in 2013 was a repudiatory breach of the Arbitration Agreement which the Government accepted by participating in the litigation. 8 On 22 March 2021, the Tribunal issued a written grounds of decision stating that it had jurisdiction (“the Tribunal’s Decision”). It determined that the Developer’s conduct leading up to the Ruritanian Judgment could not objectively be viewed as evincing a clear intention to abandon the Arbitration Agreement. The application and the parties’ cases9 The Government thereafter brought an application under s 10(3) of the IAA challenging the Tribunal’s decision, maintaining its position that the commencement and continuation of the Ruritanian Proceedings were a repudiatory breach of the Arbitration Agreement. It argued that the Ruritanian Proceedings concerned contractual disputes that fell within the scope of the Arbitration Agreement, and the reliefs sought were contractual in nature. In support of its position, it adduced evidence from an expert on Ruritanian law (“Dr X”). 10 In response, the Developer argued that the Ruritanian Proceedings were a matter of administrative law arising from the failure of local authorities (namely the MOC) to carry out their statutory functions, and that it was simply seeking a facilitative procedural direction. On this basis, it argues that a reasonable person in the Government’s shoes would not have regarded the Developer as intending to repudiate the Arbitration Agreement by commencing the Ruritanian Proceedings. The Developer also adduced evidence from an expert in Ruritanian law (“Mr Y”) in response to the evidence of Dr X. In addition, it challenged the admissibility of certain portions of Dr X’s evidence. The court’s decision11 The court dismissed the application, finding that, objectively assessed, it was not apparent that by commencing the Ruritanian Proceedings the Developer repudiated the Arbitration Agreement. Admissibility of Dr X’s evidence12 The challenged portions of Dr X’s evidence were admissible as this was a de novo application. Accordingly, there was no bar on what evidence could be adduced before the court. Further, the Developer did not contend that the portions were irrelevant, and Mr Y was given the opportunity to and did give his opinion on the issues covered in those portions: at [25]–[28].Repudiatory breach of the Arbitration Agreement 13 The law applicable to the question of repudiation in this case was English law. The Government relied on the Singapore decision of Marty Ltd v Hualon Corp (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (receiver and manager appointed) [2018] 2 SLR 1207, where it was held that the commencement of proceedings is a prima facie repudiation, and it was open to the claimant to displace this presumption by furnishing an explanation. The Developer on the other hand relied on English cases which require the defending party to the court proceedings to prove the evincing of a repudiatory intent by the other party: at [29]–[31]. While the court recognised the difference in approach under Singapore and English law, ultimately it did not matter which approach was adopted as the core factual inquiry in both instances was the same: did the conduct of a party, objectively assessed, evince a repudiatory intent, ie, was there a clear and unequivocal intention to abandon the obligation to submit disputes arising out of the contract to arbitration: at [32]–[33].14 The Developer argued that there was no breach of the Arbitration Agreement if the Ruritanian Proceedings were administrative in nature. The Government denied that the Ruritanian Proceedings were administrative in nature, but argued that even if they were, it would constitute a breach of the Arbitration Agreement. The Government’s position was defensible on a plain reading of the Arbitration Agreement. On the other hand, the Developer’s position was also defensible on the basis that administrative actions were arguably not arbitrable and thus, as a matter of contractual interpretation, could not fall within the meaning of “dispute” in the Arbitration Agreement. However, in this application, it was not necessary to decide definitively this issue: at [34]–[37].15 The court found that there was no repudiatory intent in the Developer’s commencement of the Ruritanian Proceedings. This was because: (a) The Ruritanian Proceedings were commenced for the purpose of obtaining administrative relief in order to jumpstart the JVA, which, at the time, had been stalled for several months. Accordingly, its scope was limited to ensuring that preliminary first steps in the JVA were implemented namely, for the JVC to be registered and the MLA executed. This was clear from an analysis of the events leading up to the Ruritanian Proceedings, as well as the documents filed therein. (i) Objectively, the Developer could not have brought the Ruritanian Proceedings on the basis of breach of the JVA because it did not know why its applications to register the JVC were rejected: at [42]–[44].(ii) Consequently, the focus of the Ruritanian Proceedings, as evidenced by the Plaint, was the MOC’s failure to register the JVC. This was supported by the reliefs sought, and the Ministries against whom they were sought. Furthermore, the Plaint made no reference to English law, or the Arbitration Agreement – this would have been the case if the Ruritanian Proceedings truly were an action in contract for a breach of the JVA. Notably, despite asserting that it had suffered loss and damage, the Developer did not provide particulars in the Plaint. Thus, it could not be objectively said that the Plaint evidences an unequivocal intention to abandon the Arbitration Agreement: at [45]–[53]. (iii) The Government’s response to the Plaint underscored this. The response was focused on administrative and regulatory issues, which buttressed the conclusion that a reasonable person in the position of the Government would have understood the Plaint to be a claim for administrative relief: at [54]–[55].(iv) The first statements of both parties in the Ruritanian Proceedings retained the focus on the failure by the MOC to register the JVC. Furthermore, despite being asked for particulars of damage, the Developer did not provide any in its first statement, which further supports the view that the Ruritanian Proceedings were not a contractual action: at [56]–[59]. (v) Whilst the Government did raise an issue over the terms of the draft MLA in the Ruritanian Proceedings, its final statement made it clear that was not the focus of the proceedings. Furthermore, as the issue was raised by the Government and not the Developer, it could not be conduct attributable to the Developer. As such, no significance could be attributed to the dispute over the MLA in assessing whether the Developer repudiated the Arbitration Agreement: at [60]–[65].(vi) The Ruritanian Judgment could be referred to as a contemporaneous record of the Developer’s conduct, but the views of the Ruritanian court expressed therein were not relevant. Nevertheless, the Ruritanian court’s reasoning supported the conclusion that the focus of the Ruritanian Proceedings were on the administrative issues concerning the MOC’s failure to register the JVC: at [66]–[69].(b) The Arbitration Agreement was valuable protection to both the Government and the Developer. In particular, the Developer would have perceived the Arbitration Agreement as providing valuable protection because it offered a neutral framework for the resolution of disputes with the Government over a long-term relationship under the JVA. As such, it would be contradictory to treat the Developer as intending to disavow the Arbitration Agreement by commencing the Ruritanian Proceedings when the very purpose of the proceedings was to jumpstart the JVA and commence a 50-year relationship with the Government. The Developer would have anticipated that disputes could arise over the course of the relationship which it would prefer to be resolved under the Arbitration Agreement: at [71]–[76].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
