
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE26 November 2021Case summaryChandroo Subramaniam v Public Prosecutor and other appeals [2021] SGCA 110Criminal Appeals Nos 38, 39 and 40 of 2020------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Andrew Phang Boon Leong JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal affirmed Pravinash a/l Chandran’s conviction and the sentence of life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane passed on him for trafficking in not less than 1,344.5g of cannabis and affirmed the convictions of Chandroo Subramaniam and Kamalnathan a/l Muniandy and the mandatory death sentence passed on them for abetting Pravinash in drug trafficking. The charges1. Pravinash a/l Chandran (“Pravinash”) was tried in the High Court on a charge of having in his possession not less than 1,344.5g of cannabis (“the Drugs”) for the purpose of trafficking. Chandroo Subramaniam (“Chandroo”) and Kamalnathan a/l Muniandy (“Kamalnathan”) were jointly tried with Pravinash, but each on a charge of abetting Pravinash to engage in the trafficking in the Drugs. Chandroo, Kamalnathan and Pravinash claimed trial. Pravinash did not deny that he carried the Drugs for the purpose of trafficking but denied knowledge of the nature of the Drugs. Kamalnathan and Chandroo both denied involvement in drug trafficking and knowledge of the nature of the Drugs.The background to the appeal2. On 5 March 2016, Kamalnathan and Pravinash entered Singapore through Woodlands Checkpoint, carrying the Drugs. When they reached Kranji MRT station, the Drugs were transferred into Pravinash’s haversack. Thereafter, both of them went to a nearby coffee shop where Kamalnathan contacted one “Suren” using his handphone. They waited at this coffee shop for some time before moving on to wait at a different coffee shop. They then proceeded to Kranji Road, where they established contact with Chandroo. There, Chandroo handed money and empty plastic bags to Kamalnathan and Pravinash. A short time later, Kamalnathan and Pravinash on the one hand, and Chandroo on the other, split up from Kranji Road. They were arrested by officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) shortly after. The Drugs were found in Pravinash’s haversack.3. The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) convicted Chandroo, Kamalnathan and Pravinash of the charges they faced. In addition to the objective evidence on record, the Judge preferred, and relied heavily on, Pravinash’s account of events, which implicated Kamalnathan as the one in charge of the drug trafficking operation, and identified Chandroo as the person to whom the Drugs were to be delivered. The Judge also found, on the evidence, that Chandroo, Kamalnathan and Pravinash all had actual knowledge of the nature of the Drugs and, as regards Kamalnathan and Pravinash, they would not have been able to rebut the statutory presumption of knowledge of the nature of the Drugs under s 18(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). 4. The Judge therefore sentenced Chandroo and Kamalnathan to suffer the mandatory death penalty. As for Pravinash, the Judge sentenced him to life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane as he found that Pravinash was a mere courier of the Drugs within the meaning of s 33B(2)(a) of the MDA and because the Prosecution had tendered a certificate of substantive assistance under s 33B(2)(b) of the MDA in respect of Pravinash. 5. The appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision on conviction and sentence.The court’s decision6. The Judge did not err in accepting Pravinash’s account of the events. The inconsistencies in that account, which Kamalnathan alleged existed, did not detract from the essential veracity of Pravinash’s evidence or were not inconsistencies at all. Further, it could not be said that Pravinash gave false evidence implicating the other two appellants in order to obtain the certificate of substantive assistance from the Prosecution. There was no evidence for this.: at [41]–[46].7. The Judge did not err in rejecting Kamalnathan’s and Chandroo’s account of the events. Kamalnathan’s evidence in his police statements and at trial was not consistent at several material points and raised more questions that were not satisfactorily explained. This cast doubt on the veracity of Kamalnathan’s account of the events at trial. As for Chandroo, his inability to give consistent evidence on as simple and fundamental a point as what the S$4,000 found in his possession was intended for showed that he was being deliberately economical with the truth which in turn adversely affected his credibility. Chandroo’s bare assertion that such inconsistencies were attributed to a mistranslated record of what he had said had no merit in view of the stark differences in his accounts of the events: at [48]–[55].8. The Judge did not err in taking into consideration Pravinash’s evidence of the modus operandi adopted for his and Kamalnathan’s previous deliveries of drugs to customers in Singapore in so far as such evidence revealed that on 5 March 2016 when the same modus operandi was employed, both Kamalnathan and Pravinash knew they were delivering the Drugs to a customer in Singapore. In addition, the totality of the evidence indicated that Chandroo was the intended recipient of the Drugs from Kamalnathan and Pravinash. The Judge therefore did not err in finding that the purpose of the Kranji Road meeting was for the delivery of the Drugs by Pravinash and Kamalnathan to Chandroo. It followed that Pravinash was in possession of the Drugs for the purposes of unauthorised trafficking to Chandroo and both Kamalnathan and Chandroo were knowing parties to an agreement to traffic the Drugs to Chandroo: at [60], [62] and [64].9. The Judge did not commit improper judicial interference by asking questions of Pravinash to correctly understand the evidence and clarify the parties’ cases. In any case, Pravinash’s allegation of improper judicial interference was immaterial to his conviction and sentence: at [66].10. The Judge erred in finding that Pravinash had actual knowledge of the nature of the Drugs as it was supported only by the evidence of one CNB officer who alleged that Pravinash had admitted to such knowledge. Such evidence was not independently corroborated and raised questions as to why Pravinash’s alleged admission had not been recorded in writing given its significance. However, the statutory presumption of knowledge of the nature of the Drugs under s 18(2) of the MDA applied to Pravinash and had not been satisfactorily rebutted. The Judge therefore did not err in finding that Pravinash had knowledge of the nature of the Drugs: at [70]–[72].11. The Judge erred in relying on Kamalnathan’s concession in his police statements that he knew that the Drugs were “books” (a street name for cannabis) because the context of that concession was that he was informed that the Drugs were “books” only after the Kranji Road meeting, shortly before he was arrested. This however did not call into question the soundness of the Judge’s other findings on Kamalnathan’s actual knowledge of the nature of the Drugs. In any case, Kamalnathan, as a joint possessor of the Drugs, was statutorily presumed under s 18(2) of the MDA to have knowledge of the nature of the Drugs and this presumption had not been satisfactorily rebutted: at [73]–[79].12. The Prosecution had made out a prima facie case of Chandroo’s knowledge of the nature of the Drugs as he was the intended recipient of the Drugs who was to pay Pravinash and Kamalnathan for them. While Chandroo’s “all or nothing” denial of any involvement whatsoever in drug trafficking did not preclude him from raising an inconsistent alternative defence in denying knowledge of the nature of the Drugs despite being the intended recipient, Chandroo had not established that alternative defence on the evidence at trial. There was therefore no reason to doubt the correctness of the Judge’s finding that Chandroo had actual knowledge of the nature of the Drugs: at [82]–[83].13. The Judge had correctly found that each of the appellants intended to traffic the Drugs to someone else: at [84]–[85].14. The Judge’s convictions of Chandroo, Kamalnathan and Pravinash were therefore affirmed and all the appeals against conviction were dismissed. There was no basis to set aside the mandatory sentences of death passed on Chandroo and Kamalnathan and the mandatory sentence of life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane passed on Pravinash. All the appeals against sentence were therefore also dismissed: at [88]–[89].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
