
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE23 November 2021Case summaryIskandar bin Rahmat v Law Society of Singapore [2021] SGCA 107 Civil Appeal No 9 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Judith Prakash JCA (delivering the grounds of decision of the court):Outcome: SGCA dismissed the appeal, finding no basis for the allegations of misconduct made against the lawyers. The SGCA also outlined the disciplinary process under the Legal Profession Act, and clarified the situations of conduct deserving of sanction.Introduction1 This was an appeal by Iskandar bin Rahmat (the “Appellant”), arising from a complaint of professional misconduct made to the Law Society of Singapore (the “Law Society”). The complaint was made in respect of six lawyers (the “Defence Team”) who represented the Appellant when he was on trial on charges of committing a double murder. The central question was whether the Defence Team had acted improperly, incompetently or dishonestly.Background2 The Appellant was tried in the High Court on two counts of murder under s 300(a) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed). At the end of the trial, he was convicted on both counts and sentenced accordingly to the mandatory death penalty. The Appellant then appealed against his convictions. That appeal was dismissed on 3 February 2017.3 Following his unsuccessful appeal, the Appellant filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) with the Law Society against the Defence Team. After considering the allegations made by the Appellant and the responses of the Defence Team, the Inquiry Committee (the “IC”) issued a report recommending that the Complaint be dismissed (the “IC Report”). The IC Report was considered by the Council of the Law Society (the “Council”), who then determined that no formal investigation by a Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) was necessary. The Complaint was dismissed accordingly.4 Dissatisfied with the outcome, the Appellant applied to the High Court seeking a review of the Council’s determination and for a DT to be convened. This application was dismissed by the High Court Judge, following which the Appellant appealed that dismissal to the Court of Appeal.DecisionThe inquiry process5 The disciplinary process which takes place under the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”)  is a three-staged one. First, there is the inquiry stage. Then, if cause of sufficient gravity is found by the IC, the formal investigation stage by a DT is initiated. Finally, there is the hearing before the Court of Three Judges which decides whether and, if so, how an erring solicitor should be disciplined. The IC is part of the first stage. It is constituted to inquire into complaints which have been submitted to the Law Society and which are not obviously frivolous, vexatious, misconceived or lacking in substance: at [25].6 The role of the IC is inquisitorial and informal in nature. As such, the investigative burden borne by the IC is not an onerous one. All that the IC needs to determine is if there is an ethical breach or misconduct that warrants formal investigation and consideration by a DT: at [26]. The IC is therefore a fact-finding organ intended to sieve out cases of insufficient gravity to be sent onto the second stage. Where the lawyer’s explanation seems to accord with the known facts and the common-sense view of things, the IC may accept that explanation. But where there are disputed facts that cannot be resolved, and the complaints are of sufficient gravity, the IC ought not to make a decision and should refer the matter to the DT: at [28].7 Even after the IC’s recommendation, s 96(1) of the LPA allows a complainant to apply to a judge to review the decision. This, however, is not an appeal. The reviewing judge should not disturb the decision of the IC unless the evidence before the IC did not support the conclusion it reached or the IC misunderstood the evidence or there was some exceptional circumstance justifying disagreeing with the IC’s conclusion and the Council’s acceptance of the same. One such instance would be where the IC wrongly categorised the conduct complained about as not capable of constituting misconduct attracting a sanction: at [30]–[36].Conduct deserving of sanction8 A solicitor may be liable to sanctions when he is found to be guilty of a range of conduct set out under s 83(2) of the LPA. For the present appeal, three broad categories of such conduct had to be considered: at [37]–[38]. The first, and most straightforward, would be where a solicitor has committed fraud. Fraud is proved where a false representation has been made (a) knowingly; (b) without belief in its truth; or (c) recklessly, without caring whether it is true or false: at [39].9 Second, where the solicitor has engaged in grossly improper conduct. In such cases, deceit or an intention to deceive would not be necessary. The question instead is whether the conduct is “dishonourable to the solicitor concerned as a man and dishonourable to his profession”: at [40]. Examples of such conduct include where a solicitor prefers his own interests to that of his client, or poses questions in cross-examination of a victim of alleged molest that were “indecent, scandalous and calculated to insult or annoy”: at [41]–[42].10 The third category of misconduct was a broader “catch-all” provision where the conduct is deemed unacceptable but does not fall within any other ground. Such misconduct can be founded upon the solicitor’s professional or personal conduct: at [43]. A less strict standard is applied here; it need only be shown that a solicitor is guilty of “such conduct as would render him unfit to remain as a member of an honourable profession”. The practical guide is whether reasonable people, on hearing what the solicitor had done, would have said without hesitation that as a solicitor he should not have done it: at [44]. Two examples of situations of misconduct were relevant in this case:a. Acts of negligence or want of skill. In such cases, negligence or want of skill per se is insufficient to prove misconduct: at [47]–[50]. Instead, what was required was a high degree of negligence or incompetence or want of skill that is “inexcusable and is such as to be regarded as deplorable by the fellows in the profession”: at [52]–[58]. Such negligence or want of skill can also be founded on a cumulative account of matters, taking into account the entire factual backdrop. In particular, the assessment must be shaped by the context in which it occurred: at [59]–[61].b. Acting without authority. In such cases, the focus is on determining what the scope of authority granted to the lawyer was, and then whether the lawyer had acted beyond the scope of such authority: at [64]. The Appellant’s case here raises a more nuanced question of whether the lawyers should have acted in a certain manner. On this view, a lawyer can be said to have acted without authority in deciding not to make an argument requested by the client. In these situations, the duty is owed not only to the client, but also to the court. A lawyer must therefore continually assess the merits of the case and not run frivolous arguments: at [65]–[66]. In any case, it is only in egregious situations that a lawyer should face sanctions: at [67].The present facts11 Judging by the nature of the allegations in this case, they fell under the general rubric of misconduct as discussed above. The allegations were classified in accordance with (a) negligence or want of skill, and (b) acting beyond the scope of authority: at [70]–[72].12 In relation to the category of negligence or want of skill, the court held as follows:a. Although the Defence Team had not shown the Appellant the entire set of 700 photographs, they had shown him the relevant photographs. These were sufficient, as a matter of practicality: at [79]–[84]. The Appellant had also suffered no prejudice in this case: at [85]–[86].b. There was no basis for the claim that the Defence Team had not acted conscientiously in going through the photographs. It was not necessary for the Defence team to ascertain that the photographs showed $700,000 in cash when the court had already established that there was “an enormous sum of money in excess of $600,000”: at [90]–[95].c. While the Appellant had passed the Defence Team a stack of notes, it was more accurate to characterise the notes as suggestions that he wanted the team to consider, rather than firm instructions. This was evident from the fact that more often than not, the Appellant simply raised questions in the Defence Notes: at [100]–[101].d. The Defence Team had indeed filed a version of the Opening Address that was not the one that the Appellant desired. Despite this, the focus of the Appellant’s case, and the order in which it should be run, had been properly conveyed to the trial court at the commencement of the trial. All present in court were aware of the order in which the arguments were being run: at [106]–[107].13 In relation to the category of acting without authority:a. The Appellant alleged that he had instructed the Defence Team to raise the issue of the baton later found under the driver’s seat in the first victim’s car to show the first victim was capable of violence and had attacked him, but this was not done. The IC was entitled to accept that, on discussion with the Defence Team, the Appellant had agreed that the point was speculative especially in view the first victim’s knee ailment: at [115]–[116].b. The Court agreed with the Judge that there was no logical or other reason for the Defence Team to have gone against the wishes of the Appellant and deliberately omitted to put any of his family members on the stand. As with every trial, the calling of the witnesses would have been an evolving situation. The evidence from his family members as to the appellant being a non-violent man would have been of little probative value: at [123]–[125].c. For the dispensation of 85 Prosecution witnesses, the Defence Team had provided a cogent and an in-depth explanation as to why each and every one of the 85 witnesses had not been called. The Appellant was unable to dispute the detailed timeline of events and his allegation that he was not aware that the witnesses would be dispensed of was not credible: at [132]–[134].d. There was no basis for the allegation that the Defence Team had gone against the Appellant’s wishes and failed to appoint a defence psychiatrist. The Defence Team’s account was corroborated by documentary evidence: at [142]–[145].e. On the failure to appoint a defence pathologist, it was found that there was no need to do so. The pathologist was only needed to address the scene reconstruction by the Prosecution’s expert. Since the Prosecution had opted not to call its expert, there was no need for the Defence to call one in rebuttal: at [151]–[158].Conclusion14 The Court therefore agreed with the IC and the Judge that the Appellant had not made out a prima facie case of misconduct against the Defence Team which merited investigation by a DT. The appeal was dismissed accordingly.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
