
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE19 November 2021Case summaryWu Zhi Yong v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 261 Magistrate’s Appeal No 9865 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Sundaresh Menon CJ:Outcome: SGHC dismisses the appeal.  Introduction1 This was an appeal by Wu Zhi Yong (“Wu”) against the sentence imposed by a District Judge (the “Judge”) for the offences of driving under the influence of drink pursuant to s 67(1)(b) of the Road Traffic Act (Cap 276, 2004 Rev Ed) (“RTA”) (“drink driving”), and of reckless driving under ss 64(1) of the RTA. The central issue in this appeal is whether the sentence imposed was manifestly excessive.Background2 Wu, a Singaporean male who was 26 years old at the time of the offences, drove a motorcar at about 4.05am on 11 February 2020. When he noticed a police roadblock along Crawford Street, he stopped his motorcar about 50m before the “Police Stop” sign and then made a three-point turn in an attempt to evade the roadblock. Wu then travelled against the flow of traffic for at least 140m. The police officers on duty gave chase and eventually caught up with him.3 When Wu was apprehended, the officers observed that he reeked of alcohol. A preliminary breath test was administered and, having failed that test, Wu was arrested at the scene. The Breath Analysing Device test conducted at the Traffic Police Headquarters revealed that he had 46 micrograms of alcohol per 100ml of breath, which was above the prescribed limit of 35 micrograms of alcohol per 100ml of breath.4 As a consequence, Wu was charged with one count of drink driving under s 67(1)(b) read with s 67(2)(a) of the RTA, as well as one count of reckless driving under s 64(1) punishable under s 64(2C)(a) read with ss 64(2C)(c) and 64(2D)(i) of the RTA.5 Wu pleaded guilty to both charges on 30 October 2020. In respect of each of the charges, he was sentenced to 17 days’ imprisonment and disqualified from holding or obtaining all classes of driving licences for a period of 42 months, with the sentences running concurrently. DecisionLegislative intent behind the amendments6 The Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2019 (Act 19 of 2019) (the “Amendment Act”) had three key aspects that bear emphasis. First, the Amendment Act envisaged a new scheme of penalties for reckless or dangerous driving in a tiered structure calibrated according to the degree of hurt caused. This scheme is now set out in ss 64(2) to 64(2C) of the RTA, calibrated according to whether the harm caused is death, grievous hurt or hurt and then any other case, which includes cases of non-personal injury or potential harm. By doing so, Parliament has expressly taken into consideration the broad range of actual and potential consequences arising from reckless or dangerous driving. Specific ranges of punishments are prescribed for each category of harm; the more serious the harm caused, the harsher the penalties naturally are: at [15].7 Second, Parliament also intended to prescribe stiffer penalties for the offence of drink driving. Third, the penalties were further enhanced where drink driving occurred in conjunction with reckless or dangerous driving, through the introduction of the “serious offender” provisions. Specifically, this is provided for in subsection (c) of each of ss 64(2), (2A), (2B) and (2C) read with s 64(8), the latter of which defines a serious offender as one who has also been convicted of certain other offences including drink driving under s 67: at [16].8 This wide range of changes underscored Parliament’s aim to deter acts of reckless or dangerous driving and drink driving, and to reduce the “deadly consequences” of such acts. The increased penalties were designed to “make our roads safer”: at [17].The framework for sentencing under s 64 of the RTA9 A modified “sentencing bands” approach was deemed to be more suited for the present case, which concerned the sentencing of an offender liable to be punished under s 64(2C)(a) read with s 64(2C)(c) of the RTA: at [29]. At the first step, the court should identify the band applicable to the offence and the indicative starting point with reference to that band, having regard to the offence-specific factors present. These would encompass factors relating to the manner and mode by which the offence was committed, as well as the harm caused by the offender. At the second step, the court would have regard to the offender-specific factors, being the aggravating and mitigating factors that are personal to the offender: at [30].10 Such an inquiry, however, would necessarily have to encompass the serious offender provision that is contained in s 64(2C)(c) of the RTA. This additional penalty provision serves to enhance the overall range of punishment prescribed under s 64(2C): at [31]. This is because Parliament’s intention in introducing the serious offender provisions (including s 64(2C)(c)) was to punish offenders for the aggravated conduct of driving recklessly or dangerously whilst under the influence of drink. The full criminality of such conduct would only be reflected if the punishment under s 64(2C)(a) read with s 64(2C)(c) was considered as a whole: at [32]. Calibrating the punishment to be imposed under s 64 as a whole also allows for a holistic assessment of all the factors that go toward the offender’s culpability, and in this way, the sentencing would utilise the full sentencing range: at [34].11 Under the first step of the inquiry, the court would consider the following factors (at [36]):a. Serious potential harm, including the the condition of the road, the volume of traffic or number of pedestrians actually on or which might reasonably be expected to be on the road at the relevant time, the speed and manner of driving, visibility at the relevant time, the type of vehicle, and any particular vulnerabilities.b. Serious property damage where as a general rule, the amount of any loss or damage may serve as a proxy indicator of harm.c. High alcohol level found in the accused person’s blood or breath. A high level of alcohol that substantially exceeds the prescribed limit would be an aggravating factor.d. An offender’s reason or motivation for driving, which could potentially be either a mitigating or an aggravating factor. The gravity of an offender’s conduct would be increased if he had, at that time, been driving a passenger for hire or reward.e. Increased culpability, including where the accused engaged in a particularly dangerous manner of driving. These included excessive speeding or deliberate dangerous driving, such as in “hell riding” cases.f. The offender’s conduct following the offence or attempt to evade arrest: Conduct that is “belligerent or violent” upon arrest would constitute an aggravating factor. Likewise, the failure to stop in an attempt to evade arrest or avoid apprehension should also weigh against an offender.12 The applicable sentencing range is a fine of between $2,000 and $15,000 and/or an imprisonment term not exceeding 24 months, as well as a disqualification period of no less than two years: at [38]. The appropriate bands when sentencing an offender under s 64(2C)(a) of the RTA read with s 64(2C)(c) are as follows (at [39]):a. Band 1: A fine of between $2,000 and $15,000 and/or up to one month’s imprisonment and a disqualification period of two to three years.b. Band 2: Between one month’s and one year’s imprisonment and a disqualification period of three to four years.c. Band 3: Between one year’s and two years’ imprisonment and a disqualification period of four to five years. 13 Band 1 consists of cases at the lower level of seriousness, with no offence-specific aggravating factors present or where they are present only to a limited extent. The offender’s blood alcohol level is also likely to be at the lowest or second lowest bands of the framework recently set out in Rafael Voltaire Alzate v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 224 (“Rafael Voltaire Alzate”): at [40]–[41]. Band 2 consists of cases reflecting a higher level of seriousness and would usually contain two or more offence-specific aggravating factors. In these cases, the level of culpability and the blood alcohol level will typically both be on the higher side. Given the legislative emphasis on the factor of drink driving, where an offender’s blood alcohol level is in the highest or second highest band of the framework in Rafael Voltaire Alzate, the case is likely to fall at least within Band 2: at [42]–[43]. Band 3 consists of the most serious cases of reckless or dangerous driving whilst under the influence of drink. In these cases, there will be multiple aggravating factors suggesting higher levels of culpability and higher alcohol levels: at [44].14 At the second step of the analysis, the court will have regard to the offender-specific factors. Offender-specific aggravating factors include offences taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing, the presence of relevant antecedents (apart from where the offender’s antecedents have been taken into account under the “repeat offender” or “serious repeat offender” provisions), and evidence showing a lack of remorse. Offender-specific mitigating factors include evidence of remorse and an offender’s youth: at [48].The framework for sentencing under s 67 of the RTA15 The appropriate framework for sentencing an offence under s 67 has recently been set out in Rafael Voltaire Alzate at [31] as follows:Level of alcohol (μg per 100ml of breath)Range of finesRange of disqualification36–54$2000–$400024–30 months55–69$4000–$600030–36 months70–89$6000–$800036–48 months≥ 90 $8000–$1000048–60 months (or longer)The interaction between ss 64 and 67 of the RTA16 When the serious offender provision in s 64(2C)(c) applies, as a general rule the sentences under ss 64 and 67 should run concurrently insofar as any term of imprisonment or disqualification order is concerned. The serious offender provision would only apply when the facts engaged by both charges bear some co-relation to each other. This reading is borne out by the statutory wording of the provisions, as s 64(2C)(c) is only engaged when an offender is a serious offender. Section 64(8) in turn defines “serious offender” as an offender who is convicted of an offence under section 67 or 70(4) in relation to the offender’s driving which is an offence under subsection (1). As the facts underlying the offence under s 67 have to be in relation to the same act of driving which gave rise to the offence under s 64, the provisions point to the offences engaging an identical or largely overlapping set of facts: at [56].17 Further, the operation of the enhanced penalty provision in s 64(2C)(c) is contingent on the offender also being convicted of either an offence under ss 67 or 70(4) of the RTA. For this reason, it necessarily follows that the Prosecution would have to charge an offender for, and proceed on, both offences under ss 64 and 67 in order for the penalty provision to apply. This is so even when both charges relate to the identical act of wrongdoing. These factors point towards the conclusion that the sentences for both offences should run concurrently, because the punishment for the offence of dangerous or reckless driving would already have been enhanced on account of the serious offender provision by a range that is similar to that applicable under s 67, although to a degree that is likely to be greater by reason of treating the two as a compound offence rather than as two separate and unrelated offences: at [57]. The conclusion that the sentences should run concurrently is also consistent with the spirit of the principle that a person ought not to be punished twice for the same offence: at [58]–[60].Application on the facts18 In relation to the offence under s 67, as Wu had 46 micrograms of alcohol per 100ml of breath, he was liable to be sentenced to a fine of between $2,000 to $4,000, and a disqualification term of between 24 to 30 months following the sentencing framework set out in Rafael Voltaire Alzate. There is no indication in the Statement of Facts that Wu admitted to that there were any further aggravating factors that pertained specifically to this offence. As such, he would fall in the middle of this range, and a fine of $3,000 and a disqualification order for a period of 27 months would have been appropriate: at [68].19 In relation to the offence under s 64, however, a number of aggravating factors were clearly present. The degree of potential harm that could have been caused by Wu’s action was very high and it was fortuitous that no harm or property damage materialised. As the District Judge noted, Wu drove against the flow of traffic and around a bend from Crawford Street to Beach Road, which is a potential blind spot for vehicles. There was also a zebra crossing just after the bend along Beach Road, rendering his actions especially dangerous to pedestrians who would not be expecting a car from the opposite direction. Wu’s culpability was further enhanced by the fact that he had driven in such a dangerous manner in a deliberate attempt to avoid apprehension and evade arrest. I consider that two of the offence-specific aggravating factors identified above are present in this case, and it therefore falls within the lower end of Band 2 of the sentencing framework. In terms of the offender-specific factors, the only mitigating factor present was that Wu had pleaded guilty to his offences: at [69].20 Based on these factors, Wu’s offence fell within Band 2 and a custodial term of one month and a disqualification term of between 36 and 42 months could have been imposed in respect of Wu’s offence under s 64(2C)(a) read with s 64(2C)(c) and s 64(2D)(i). This sentence falls at the lower end of the sentencing range provided under Band 2 of the framework: [72].Conclusion21 The Court therefore concluded that the sentence imposed by the District Judge of 17 days’ imprisonment and a disqualification order for a period of 42 months for each of the offences, both sets of sentences to run concurrently, was not manifestly excessive and dismissed the appeal: [73].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
