
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 November 2021Case summaryCAJ and another v CAI and another appeal [2021] SGCA 102 Civil Appeals Nos 11 and 43 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA affirms High Court’s decision to set aside arbitral award on the basis that award had been made in breach of natural justice and in excess of jurisdiction.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal reiterates the importance of pleadings in delineating the ambit of the parties’ submission to arbitration. •  The Court of Appeal clarifies the principles relating to the concept of “hedging” and when a party may be precluded from seeking to set aside an award.Background facts1 The parties’ dispute arose from two contracts (“the Agreements”) for the construction of a polycrystalline silicon plant (“the Plant”). The respondent’s subsidiary was the owner of the Plant and the appellants were the contractors responsible for the construction of the Plant. After issues arose in connection with excessive vibrations in the compressors which were located in the hydrogen unit of the Plant, rectification works were carried out in a piecemeal fashion pursuant to the instructions of the respondent’s subsidiary (“the Admitted Instruction”). 2 Subsequently, the respondent’s subsidiary commenced a Singapore-seated arbitration (“the Arbitration”) against the appellants. The respondent was subsequently joined to the Arbitration, as the assignee of its subsidiary’s claim against the appellants. In the Arbitration, the respondent sought liquidated damages from the appellants, alleging that the appellants had caused a 144-day delay in the mechanical completion of the Plant. The appellants’ pleaded defence was that mechanical completion had been achieved on time and that, in the alternative, any delay was a result of the Admitted Instruction such that the respondent had waived its right to claim liquidated damages or was estopped from doing so (“the Estoppel Defence”). 3 In their written closing submissions in the Arbitration, the appellants raised for the first time a defence claiming an extension of time so as to reduce the amount of liquidated damages payable (“the EOT Defence”). The EOT Defence was based on General Condition 40 (“GC 40”) of the Agreements, which provided that the time for mechanical completion could be extended if the delay was by reason of any act or omission of or any default or breach of the Agreements by the respondent’s subsidiary. In its written closing submissions in the Arbitration, the respondent objected to the appellants’ raising of the EOT Defence. 4 In its award (“the Award”), the arbitral tribunal (“the Tribunal”) found that the appellants had failed to achieve mechanical completion on time and that there had been a period of 99 days of delay. The Tribunal also rejected the Estoppel Defence. However, the Tribunal accepted the EOT Defence and decided to extend the time for mechanical completion by a period of 25 days, such that the respondent was only entitled to receive liquidated damages for 74 days instead of 99 days.  5 The respondent then applied to the High Court to partially set aside the Award on the basis that (a) by ruling upon and allowing the EOT Defence, the Tribunal had exceeded the scope of the parties’ submission to arbitration; and/or (b) the Award had been made in breach of natural justice. This was allowed by the High Court judge (“the Judge”), who set aside the Tribunal’s decision to grant the appellants an extension of time of 25 days. The Judge consequently ordered that “the number of days of delay set out in the Award for which liquidated damages are payable is to read as 99 days”. Dissatisfied, the appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision.  The Court of Appeal’s decision 6 The Court of Appeal observed that a defence based on GC 40 was necessarily fact-sensitive, and was not merely an issue which arose naturally from the Arbitration. As the EOT Defence was a creature of a contractual provision, it was incumbent on the appellants to satisfy the contractual conditions stipulated therein and to plead such a defence. However, despite the invocation of GC 40 being dependent on the fulfilment of several conditions, none of them was pleaded or even canvassed in the course of the Arbitration until the appellants’ written closing submissions: at [29]–[32].7 In light of this, the correct inquiry was as to when and how a tribunal would be entitled to rule on an unpleaded defence. To decide on the EOT Defence, the correct procedure would have been for the appellants to apply to amend the defence to plead the EOT Defence, and for the Tribunal to invite submissions from the parties as to whether such an amendment should be allowed. If allowed, it would lead to various consequential orders. However, this was not done at any stage of the Arbitration. Thus, when the Arbitration was declared closed, the EOT Defence remained unpleaded and there was no ruling by the Tribunal that the appellants were allowed to rely on the EOT Defence: at [32], [40]–[41].8 Given that the EOT Defence had not been expressly raised in the pleadings, the Lists of Issues or the Terms of Reference, there was simply no room to argue that the EOT Defence was nonetheless within the scope of the Arbitration. It was impermissible for the appellants to invite the court to adopt a broad reading of these documents in order to read into them a defence which was admittedly not pleaded. It was also untenable for the appellants to suggest that the EOT Defence fell within the scope of the submission to arbitration simply because it would have a bearing on the respondent’s claim for liquidated damages. Furthermore, the authorities relied upon by the appellants were distinguishable from the present case: at [43]–[46].9 This was a classic case of breach of natural justice. The respondent had not been given a fair and reasonable opportunity to respond to the EOT Defence, as the EOT Defence was a completely new defence which was factually and conceptually distinct from the Estoppel Defence. Furthermore, the Tribunal had relied on its unarticulated experience in arriving at its decision to grant a 25-day extension of time to the appellants. As the respondent had not been afforded any opportunity to address the Tribunal on its purported experience, this also constituted a breach of natural justice: at [54]–[55].10 The respondent was not precluded from seeking to set aside the Award. In its written closing submissions in the Arbitration, the respondent had made an unequivocal and fair intimation to the Tribunal of its objections to the EOT Defence. It was not necessary in this case for the respondent to have explicitly identified the specific ground for setting aside. It was sufficient that the respondent had set out the substance of its objection. It was also not necessary for the respondent to have specifically intimated to the Tribunal that it intended to commence setting aside proceedings if its objections were ignored. It was more than sufficient and appropriate that the respondent had, in its written closing submissions in the Arbitration, clearly set out the reasons why it objected to the Tribunal’s consideration of the EOT Defence: at [64]–[68]. 11 Given the Court of Appeal’s view that the Tribunal’s decision on the EOT Defence had been made in excess of jurisdiction and in breach of natural justice, there was strictly speaking no need to consider the question of remission. Nevertheless, even if there had only been a breach of natural justice, the Court of Appeal would not have been inclined to remit the matter to the Tribunal as this was not an appropriate case for remission. The only way for the Tribunal to properly adjudicate on the EOT Defence was by way of an application to amend the defence. It would be manifestly unfair to the respondent to allow any such amendment at this late stage, and it was not appropriate for the court to remit the Award to the Tribunal to consider an application to amend the pleadings to include the EOT Defence: at [69]–[71].12 The Judge’s order that “the number of days of delay set out in the Award for which liquidated damages are payable is to read as 99 days” was simply a consequential order arising from the court’s decision to set aside the Tribunal’s decision to grant a 25-day extension of time. The Tribunal had found that there were 99 days of delay and that the respondent was prima facie entitled to liquidated damages for the entire period of delay. The only reason this period was cut down to 74 days was that the Tribunal wrongly ruled on the 25-day extension of time. Once it was decided that this extension of time was liable to be set aside, it was inevitable that the respondent’s entitlement to liquidated damages should be restored to the full period of 99 days. The Judge’s consequential order thus served simply to clarify that the setting aside order applied only to the parts of the Award relating to the EOT Defence, and that the rest of the Award remained intact: at [73]–[74].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
