
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27 October 2021Case SummaryBatavia Eximp & Contracting (S) Pte Ltd v Owner of Vessel(s) New Breeze & 9 Ors[2021] SGCA 99Civil Appeal No 19 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses the appeal against the decision of the Judge below not to impose a condition on the stay of proceedings in favour of arbitration. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A distinction ought to be drawn between (a) the imposition of administrative conditions on a stay such as imposing a timeline to commence arbitration, requiring a party to appoint a solicitor to accept service, or ordering parties not to frustrate the appointment of the tribunal; and (b) conditions such as requiring one party to waive a substantive defence. The former may be said to be essentially orders consequential upon the stay order which give effect to the arbitration agreement. By contrast, the latter seek to, in effect, determine an issue which falls to be decided at the arbitration: at [24]–[27].•  The exercise of the Court’s discretion to impose a condition on a stay must be informed by the justice of the case. This entails consideration of whether the party seeking the stay is able to put forward a proper justification for the imposition of any condition. In determining whether such justification is established, the Court should have regard to (a) the reasons for the conditions being sought, and whether those reasons could have been obviated by the applicant’s own conduct; (b) whether the need for any of the conditions was contributed to or caused by the conduct of the respondent; and (c) the substantive effect on the parties of any condition that the court may impose: at [30].•  There was no legal basis for the Court to exercise its discretion in favour of the appellant to grant the condition sought. Even though the appellant knew from the outset that there was, at the very least, a potential arbitration clause which would govern any disputes arising under the Bills of Lading, it chose not to take any steps to verify or find out about that clause. The appellant took the risk in not finding out about applicable terms, and the consequences which eventuated cannot in any way be attributed to the respondent: at [38].Background to the appeal1 On 25 July 2019, the appellant entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with Amrose Singapore Pte Ltd (“Amrose”) for the financing of Amrose’s purchase of New Zealand pine logs. Under this MOU, the appellant would procure its financier, the Bank of Baroda, to issue letters of credit to Amrose’s supplier, TPT Forests Limited, for shipments of New Zealand pine logs from New Zealand to India on board the MV Taikoo Brilliance. In return, Amrose would repay the appellant with interest. The carriage of the cargo of pine logs (the “Cargo”) was made pursuant to four bills of lading (collectively, the “Bills of Lading”). The appellant received the Bills of Lading as security for its financing arrangements on or about 12 September 2019.  2 The salient portions of the Bills of Lading were threefold:a. First, on the face of each of the Bills of Lading, there was a clear statement that “Freight [was] payable as per CHARTER PARTY dated 03/07/2019”;b. Second, on the reverse side of the Bills of Lading, the very first clause under the heading “Conditions of Carriage” read “All terms and conditions, liberties and exceptions of the Charter Party, dated as overleaf, including the Law and Arbitration Clause are herewith incorporated”; andc. Third, in the upper left-hand corner of the reverse side of the Bills of Lading, there was a specific addition that the Bills of Lading were “TO BE USED WITH CHARTER-PARTIES”. 3 On 15 September 2019, the Taikoo Brilliance entered Kandla Port, India, and commenced discharge of the Cargo. It was not disputed that the discharge of the cargo was completed, at the latest, by 23 September 2019.4 On 18 August 2020, the appellant commenced HC/ADM 206/2020, HC/ADM 207/2020 and HC/ADM 208/2020 (collectively, the “Admiralty Actions”) against the respondent. The appellant argued, among other things, that the respondent, as the carrier and/or the party in physical possession of the Cargo, had failed to only deliver the Cargo as demanded upon presentation of the Bills of Lading, and/or to the order of the appellant.5 Following the commencement of the Admiralty Actions on 18 August 2020, the appellant sought and procured an order for the arrest of the Navios Koyo, another vessel owned by the respondent but unconnected with the events set out above.6 On 23 September 2020 at 6.36pm, solicitors for the time charterer of the Taikoo Brilliance, The China Navigation Co (“China Navigation”) wrote to the appellant’s solicitors, seeking confirmation on the sum of security sought for the release of the Navios Koyo. The email also made reference to the charterparty incorporated into the Bills of Lading providing for arbitration in London. The same day at 7.13pm, the appellant’s solicitors requested a copy of the charterparty. This was provided on 24 September 2020 at 9.08am. It was undisputed that the arbitration clause had been incorporated into the terms of the Bills of Lading and that, for the purposes of this appeal, any claims made by the appellant in relation to the Cargo would be time-barred if they had not been commenced by 23 September 2020. 7 On 6 November, the respondent took out summonses to stay the Admiralty Actions in favour of arbitration. The appellant resisted the stay applications, and argued that even if a stay was ordered, any such stay should be conditional on the respondent waiving any defence of time bar it might seek to rely on in the arbitration. The Assistant Registrar disagreed, and granted an unconditional stay. The appellant appealed on 21 December 2020. On 22 December 2020, the appellant commenced arbitration against the respondent in London in relation to the Bills of Lading. 8 On appeal before the Judge  (the “Judge”), the appellant conceded that a stay was appropriate. Instead, its arguments focussed on the point that the stay granted ought to have been conditional on the respondent waiving any defence of time bar it might have at the arbitration. The Judge dismissed the appeal, and the appellant appealed to the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal’s decision9 The Court of Appeal dismissed CA 19 of 2021. 10 It was clear from the very outset that any claim under the Bills of Lading would be subject to arbitration. The Bills of Lading categorically stated that “[a]ll terms and conditions … of the Charter Party, dated as overleaf, including the Law and Arbitration Clause are herewith incorporated”: at [20]. 11 In the appellant’s affidavit in support of the warrant of arrest of the Navios Koyo, the appellant specifically sought to distance itself from the terms of the applicable charterparty by stating that it “d[id] not have a copy of the [charterparty referred to in the Bills of Lading]”, and that it was not “aware of the terms of any such charterparty”. However, from this very statement, it was in fact clear that the appellant was well aware that the terms of the relevant charterparty had been incorporated into the Bills of Lading. All that the appellant was stating was that it was not aware of the precise terms which had been incorporated. However, that was the consequence of the appellant’s own conduct in not asking for a copy of the charterparty earlier. The appellant’s attempt to rely on its ignorance of the terms of the incorporated charterparty did not, without more, prevent it, as the holder of the Bills of Lading, from being bound by the charterparty’s terms: at [22] and [23].12 The power of the Court to impose conditions for a stay granted under s 6(1) of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“IAA”) stems from s 6(2) of the said Act. A survey of the caselaw shows that s 6(2) of the IAA has been relied on for the imposition of a whole range of conditions. In relation to the range of conditions which have been imposed, a distinction ought to be drawn between (a) the imposition of administrative conditions on a stay such as imposing a timeline to commence arbitration, requiring a party to appoint a solicitor to accept service, or ordering parties not to frustrate the appointment of the tribunal; and (b) substantive conditions such as requiring one party to waive a substantive defence. The former may be said to be essentially orders consequential upon the stay order, and give effect to the arbitration agreement. By contrast, the latter category of conditions may, in effect, determine an issue which would otherwise fall to be decided at the arbitration: at [24]–[27]. 13 It is not the case that all conditions sought which do not solely facilitate or give effect to the arbitration agreement are necessarily impermissible. Rather, reference must be had to all of the surrounding facts and circumstances. However, conditions which do not merely facilitate or seek to give effect to the arbitration agreement ought to be subject to a heightened level of scrutiny, and the threshold for such conditions to be granted may be said to be considerably higher than that applicable for essentially administrative conditions: at [29].14 The Court should take cognizance of all of the surrounding facts and circumstances in determining whether it should exercise its discretion to impose conditions on a stay. In particular, the exercise of its discretion must be informed by the justice of the case. This entails consideration of whether the party seeking the stay is able to put forward a proper justification for the imposition of any condition. In determining whether such justification is established, the Court should have regard to (a) the reasons for the conditions being sought, and whether those reasons could have been obviated by the applicant’s own conduct; (b) whether the need for any of the conditions was contributed to or caused by the conduct of the respondent; and (c) the substantive effect on the parties of any condition that the court may impose: at [30].15 There was no legal basis for the Court to exercise its discretion in favour of the appellant to grant the condition sought:a. First, while the appellant knew from the outset that there was, at the very least, a potential arbitration clause which would govern any disputes arising under the Bills of Lading, it chose not to take any step to verify or find out about that clause. The appellant took the risk in not finding out about the terms of the Bills of Lading, and the consequences which eventuated cannot in any way be attributed to the respondent. b. Second, the appellant’s explanation that it had asked Amrose for a copy of the charterparty, but that Amrose had refused to provide one, does not assist it. There was no documentary evidence whatsoever of the appellant’s efforts to obtain a copy of the charterparty from Amrose. Moreover, even if the appellant had in fact asked Amrose for the charterparty, that had nothing whatsoever to do with the respondent. The appellant had and continues to have a separate cause of action against Amrose. c. Third, the appellant’s explanation that it did not take any further step vis-à-vis Amrose because it was in commercial negotiations with Amrose over the overdue payment did not assist it. It was clear that the appellant had elected to look to the buyer of the Cargo, Amrose, for payment notwithstanding its own awareness that the respondent was allegedly in breach of the Bills of Lading for having delivered the cargo without production of the Bills of Lading. This made the appellant’s failure to take any step to commence arbitration against the respondent prior to the time bar setting in all the more egregious.d. Fourth, the appellant’s explanations for its failure to approach the respondent for the charterparty earlier were speculative and outrageous. There was not even any basis in the first place to suggest that the appellant’s alleged concerns were in any way engendered by the respondent’s conduct.The appeal was thus dismissed: at [34]–[37].16 For avoidance of doubt, the Court of Appeal also clarified that the size of the claim is irrelevant in determining whether or not a condition for the waiver of a time bar ought to be imposed. There were three reasons for this:a. First, even assuming that the size of the claim was material, it would be impossible to conclusively state when the line would be crossed such that a claim was sizeable enough to warrant the imposition of a condition that a time bar defence be waived. Such a determination would be completely arbitrary.b. Second, if the size of the claim were relevant, the party who is required to waive the time bar defence would suffer hardship that is equally disproportionate to that of the party seeking the condition. This would be especially so if the party losing its accrued defence of time bar was in no way responsible for the claimant’s omission or failure.c. Third, imposing a condition that the defence of time bar be waived would operate in absolute terms. Such a condition would either preclude the raising of a time bar defence altogether, or not at all. Once such a condition were to apply, the entire defence of time bar would be rendered unavailable, and the same would be true conversely. The absolute nature of this position means that the size of a claim would have highly dramatic and potentially disproportionate effects if it were deemed to be relevant: at [39]–[42].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
