
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 October 2023Case SummaryPublic Prosecutor v Soh Chee Wen and another [2023] SGHC 299 Criminal Case No. 9 of 2019--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court:This matter concerned what is commonly referred to as the “Penny Stock Crash” of October 2013. Various charges were brought against three individuals in respect of this incident, chiefly under the Securities and Futures Act (Cap 289, 2006 Rev Ed) (the “SFA”) and the Penal Code (Cap 224, Rev Ed 2008) (the “Penal Code”). One of those three individuals pleaded guilty in March 2019 and was dealt with separately. The remaining two – that was, the accused persons in this matter – claimed trial to all the charges brought against them. The trial was heard between 25 March 2019 and 30 June 2021. Written closing and reply submissions were exchanged between September 2021 and November 2021, and oral closing submissions were heard in December 2021.On 5 May 2022, the General Division of the High Court (the “Court”) convicted the First Accused, Soh Chee Wen (also known as “John”), of 180 of 189 charges brought against him. The Second Accused, Quah Su-Ling, was convicted of 169 of 178 charges brought against her. Written and reply submissions on sentence were then made sequentially between June 2022 and October 2022, and oral submissions on sentence were heard in November 2022. On 28 December 2022, the Court imposed aggregate sentences of 36 years’ imprisonment on the First Accused, and 20 years’ imprisonment on the Second Accused. On 5 May and 28 December 2022, the Court orally delivered detailed reasons for its decisions. These are the Court’s full written grounds of decision, addressing both the accused persons’ criminal liability as well as the sentences handed down. Background 1 On 7 September 2013, the Straits Times published an article titled, “[Blumont Group Limited’s (“Blumont”)] meteoric rise raises concerns: Mining counter’s huge gains don’t square with the firm’s Q2 results”. The publication triggered an inquiry by the Commercial Affairs Department (“CAD”). However, before this inquiry yielded results, on 1 October 2013, the Singapore Exchange (“SGX”) issued a query to Blumont’s Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer. The query asked him, amongst other things, if he could provide an explanation for the steep increase in the company’s share price. On 2 October 2013, Today similarly published an article titled, “SIAS and SGX query ‘steep increase’ in Blumont share price”.2 On 4 October 2013, within the first hour of the trading day, Blumont’s share price fell sharply from S$1.895 to S$0.88. The share prices of two other companies, Asiasons Capital Ltd (“Asiasons”) and LionGold Corp Ltd (“LionGold”) followed suit, falling from S$2.65 to S$1.04 and S$1.42 to S$0.875, respectively. In response, the SGX suspended the trading of all three counters that same day. On Sunday, 6 October 2013, the SGX announced that trading would resume the next day, but, that the three counters were to be declared “Designated Securities”. This meant that contra trading was not permitted – the three counters could only be purchased if buyers had cash on hand. Short selling was also prohibited. 3 When trading of Blumont, Asiasons and LionGold (collectively, “BAL”) shares resumed on 7 October 2013, their respective share prices continued to fall rapidly, dropping from S$0.88, S$1.04, and S$0.875 before the suspension, to S$0.13, S$0.15, and S$0.25 by the end of that trading day. The sharp price drops on both 4 and 7 October 2013 will be referred to as “the Crash”.4 The Crash resulted in the CAD and the Monetary Authority of Singapore launching a joint investigation into the matter. Following investigations, in the third quarter of 2016, the Prosecution preferred many charges against the accused persons. At the time, the main charges they faced were for abetting, by conspiracy, offences under s 197(1)(b) and s 201(b) of the SFA as well as s 420 of the Penal Code. 5 A third person, Mr Goh Hin Calm (“Mr Goh HC”), whom the Prosecution assessed had played a smaller role in the accused persons’ alleged scheme to manipulate the markets for and prices of BAL, was also charged. Mr Goh HC faced six charges for abetting, by intentionally aiding, the accused persons in their commission of offences under s 197(1)(b) of the SFA. On 20 March 2019, Mr Goh HC pleaded guilty to two of the six charges he faced, with the four others being taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing. Mr Goh HC was separately sentenced by Justice See Kee Oon to 36 months’ imprisonment for each of the two proceeded charges, which were ordered to run concurrently. 6 On 25 March 2019, the trial against the accused persons commenced before the Court. In July 2019, after the trial began, the Prosecution applied to amend most of the charges brought against the accused persons from charges for abetment by conspiracy to charges for criminal conspiracy. The application was allowed by the Court. The result was that the First Accused ultimately faced 189 charges for offences allegedly committed between 1 August 2012 and 3 October 2013 (the “Relevant Period”) falling within the following five distinct groups:(a) First, ten charges for being party to conspiracies to commit offences under s 197(1)(b) of the SFA, which proscribed “false trading and market rigging transactions”. The Second Accused was alleged to be his co-conspirator. Six of these ten charges concerned the markets for BAL shares (the “False Trading Charges”). The remaining four concerned the prices of BAL shares (the “Price Manipulation Charges”).(b) Second, 162 charges for being party to conspiracies to commit offences under s 201(b) of the SFA, which prohibited the use of manipulative or deceptive devices in connection with the subscription, purchase, or sale of securities (the “Deception Charges”). The Second Accused was, again, alleged to be his co-conspirator. (c) Third, six charges for being party to conspiracies to commit offences under s 420 of the Penal Code, that was, cheating and dishonestly inducing property to be delivered (the “Cheating Charges”). In essence, these charges alleged that the accused persons had conspired to dishonestly induce two financial institutions (“FIs”), Interactive Brokers LLC (“IB”) and Goldman Sachs International (“Goldman Sachs”), to deliver hundreds of millions in margin financing.(d) Fourth, three charges for being concerned in the management of Blumont, Asiasons, and LionGold while being an undischarged bankrupt, contrary to s 148(1) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (the “Companies Act”). These were the “Company Management Charges”. The First Accused had been adjudged bankrupt in Malaysia on 14 January 2002 and has remained undischarged ever since.(e) Lastly, five charges for perverting the course of justice contrary to s 204A of the Penal Code and a further three charges for attempting to pervert the course of justice contrary to s 204A read with s 511 of the Penal Code (collectively, the “Witness Tampering Charges”). These eight charges essentially alleged that the First Accused had successfully tampered or attempted to tamper with the evidence of four key witnesses in these proceedings.7 The Second Accused faced 178 charges for offences falling within the first three groups of charges brought against the First Accused – ie, the False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges, the Deception Charges, and the Cheating Charges. As she was alleged to be his co-conspirator, the formulation of the charges against her were essentially identical to those brought against him. She did not face charges in the fourth and fifth groups.The Prosecution’s Case8 Broadly, it was the Prosecution’s case that during the Relevant Period, the accused persons had masterminded a scheme to artificially inflate the markets for and manipulate prices of BAL shares (the “Scheme”). They were said, essentially, to have carried out this scheme by controlling, coordinating their use of, obtaining financing for, and conducting illegitimate trading activity in an extensive web comprising 189 trading accounts (the “Relevant Accounts”) held with 20 FIs in the names of 60 individuals and companies (the “Relevant Accountholders”). The 20 FIs comprised nine local brokerages, as well as 11 foreign brokerages and private banks.9 The Prosecution’s case generally formulated and addressed seven key issues. First, how the accused persons had obtained control of and used the Relevant Accounts. Second, how the accused persons coordinated their use of the Relevant Accounts to perpetuate their Scheme, and how the accused persons kept atop the coordination of the substantial number of accounts they controlled. Third, how the accused persons financed the Relevant Accounts. Fourth, how the accused persons inflated the liquidity of BAL shares. Fifth, how the accused persons inflated the prices of BAL shares. Sixth, what the broader purpose of the accused persons’ Scheme was. And, lastly, how the accused persons conducted themselves after the Crash. 10 The evidence adduced and arguments made by the Prosecution in respect of these seven components – which was highly granular and specific – formed the building blocks on which their overarching thesis was constructed. They served to support the general inference that there were, in fact, conspiracies between the accused persons to manipulate the markets for and prices of BAL shares, and, further, that such conspiracies had been successfully carried out.The Defence’s Case11 The main throughline which ran through the Defence’s case was the accused persons’ denial that they had been in control of any of the 189 Relevant Accounts. This denial manifested in both positive and negative positions they took against the Prosecution’s case and evidence.(a) For example, a positive position taken by the Defence was that, if the markets for and prices of BAL shares had in fact been manipulated, the true wrongdoers were Mr Gwee Yow Pin (Dick) (a long-time associate of the First Accused), Mr Tai Chee Ming (Ken) (“Mr Tai”), Mr Gan Tze Wee (Gabriel) (“Mr Gan”), Mr Tjoa Sang-Hi (@ Husein or Henry) (“Mr Tjoa”), Mr Lau Chee Heong (Leroy) (“Mr Leroy Lau”), Mr Wong Xue Yu (“Mr Wong XY”), and “possibly others”. Mr Tai, Mr Gan, Mr Tjoa, Mr Leroy Lau, and Mr Wong XY were trading representatives with various FIs. Excluding the possible but unnamed wrongdoers, it was said that these individuals had, between them, control and use of around 90 Relevant Accounts which they used to carry out illegal activities without the knowledge or involvement of the accused persons. Indeed, these accounts were responsible for most of the BAL trading activity which the Prosecution sought to impugn.(b) An example of a negative position taken by the Defence was the fact that most of the Relevant Accountholders were high net-worth individuals and “people of substance”. Many of them were said to have been “far more established and successful” than the First Accused. Accordingly, these persons “could not possibly” have agreed to be the accused persons’ nominees.12 Examples such as these, however, do not capture the full breadth of the Defence’s case. Much like the Prosecution’s case, which was characterised by a substantial degree of diversity and granularity – especially in relation to how each of the Relevant Accounts had allegedly been controlled – the case for the Defence was also fairly granular.The False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges13 In respect of the False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges, the Court found that 187 of the 189 Relevant Accounts had been controlled by the accused persons. The two accounts which the Court did not find to have been controlled were held personally in the name of Ms Cheng Jo-Ee (Adeline) (“Ms Cheng”), an ex-romantic partner of the First Accused: at [194]–[727]. Crucially, the Court found that the volume of BAL trades carried out in these accounts did not materially affect the Prosecution’s case: at [824].14 Upon this foundation, the Court made six salient findings:(a) First, the evidence also established that the accused persons had coordinated their use of the 187 Relevant Accounts under their control. The consistency and extent of their coordination pointed clearly towards the existence of some general scheme in respect of which the accounts were likely being used: at [728]–[777].(b) Second, the Court accepted the evidence of the Prosecution’s market surveillance expert, Professor Michael James Aitken, and found that illegitimate trading practices had been used by the Relevant Accounts to inflate the markets for and prices of BAL shares during the Relevant Period. Coupled with the Court’s findings on control, the use of such practices further pointed to the existence of some scheme or schemes: at [778]–[816].(c) Third, the Court found that the markets for BAL shares had in fact been inflated by the trading activity performed in the 187 controlled Relevant Accounts. Such inflation was substantial and, on the basis that these accounts had been centrally controlled, this pointed to an intention on the part of the controllers to manipulate the market for BAL shares: at [817]–[825].(d) Fourth, the Court found that the prices of BAL shares had also been inflated as a result of trading activity executed by certain Relevant Accounts during the specific periods of the Price Manipulation Charges: at [826]–[849] and [912]–[942].(e) Fifth, the Court found that the accused persons had a broader plan for their Scheme. Such plan was to bring together (i) the First Accused’s involvement in the management of BAL, and (ii) the artificially inflated prices and liquidity of BAL’s shares, in order to use such shares as currency for corporate acquisitions to be made by BAL: at [850]–[881].(f) Lastly, the Court found that the accused persons’ conduct following the Crash was revealing of their Scheme. In particular, the First Accused’s tampering with witnesses evidenced a contemporaneous concern on his part to conceal matters from discovery. The existence of such a concern supported the view that a scheme was to be found: at [882]–[887].15 Drawing these findings together, the Court found that each of the ten False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges had been made out against the accused persons and convicted them of all ten charges accordingly. More specifically, the Court found that the charges had not only been made out in the sense that the accused persons had conspired to commit offences under s 197(1)(b) of the SFA, but, further, that they had successfully managed to carry out the various conspiracies. Thus, the Court determined that the substantive offences under s 197(1)(b) had been completed as well: at [889]–[943]. This had consequences in terms of sentencing: at [1319]–[1339].The Deception Charges16 A sample Deception Charge brought against the First Accused was as follows:CHARGE 11That you, Soh Chee Wen, on or about 13 March 2013, through to 3 October 2013, in Singapore, were party to a criminal conspiracy with one Quah Su-Ling (“Quah”) to commit an offence under section 201(b) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) (“SFA”), to wit, you and Quah agreed to engage in a practice which was likely to operate as a deception upon AmFraser Securities Pte Ltd (nka KGI Fraser Securities Pte Ltd) (the “Firm”), directly in connection with the purchase or sale of shares in Asiasons Capital Limited and LionGold Corp Ltd (the “Securities”), bodies corporate whose shares were traded on the Mainboard of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd, a securities exchange in Singapore, which practice was to conceal the involvement of you and Quah in the instructing of orders and trades of the Securities in the account of one Peter Chen Hing Woon (account no. 01-0030921) maintained with the Firm, and you have thereby committed an offence punishable under section 120B read with section 109 of the Penal Code (Chapter 224) read with section 204(1) of the SFA.[emphasis added]17 The Prosecution took the position that the wrongful conduct alleged by the Deception Charges amounted to “unauthorised share trading”, which was an established category of misconduct sanctioned by s 201(b) of the SFA. The Court did not agree. It observed that the charges drafted by the Prosecution were somewhat broad and they were not strictly supported by the definition of “unauthorised share trading” laid down in Ng Geok Eng v Public Prosecutor [2007] 1 SLR(R) 913, [2006] SGHC 232. Nonetheless, the Court held that – in the circumstances of this case – the charges disclosed an offence under the broad terms of s 201(b): at [958]–[976].18 However, as the Prosecution preferred to bring the many Deception Charges on the footing that the accused persons had entered into various individual conspiracies apart from the Scheme as a whole or the conspiracies forming the subject of the False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges, the Court held that the Prosecution needed to prove each and every specific conspiracy alleged by the Deception Charges. It was not permissible for the Prosecution to simply prove the overarching Scheme and assert that, following from that, the accused persons could be assumed to have entered into numerous sub-conspiracies: at [977]–[983].19 On these premises, the Court went on to analyse the Deception Charges and found that 153 had been made out. Apart from the fact of the accused persons’ conspiracies to commit offences under s 201(b) of the SFA, the Court also found that the substantive s 201(b) offences had been completed as well: at [988]–[1073], [1075]–[1092], [1094]–[1095], [1102]–[1106] and [1111].20 The Court acquitted the accused persons of eight charges. Of these, two charges related to Ms Cheng’s personal accounts with CIMB and Credit Suisse which the Court found had not been controlled by the accused persons. It followed that if the accused persons had not even controlled these accounts, the Deception Charges could not be made out: at [1074] and [1093]. As regards the remaining six Deception Charges of which the accused persons had been acquitted, there was not enough evidence to show that the Second Accused knew of the existence of these accounts. While such knowledge was not necessary for the overarching Scheme and the broader conspiracies to manipulate the markets for and prices of BAL shares, it undermined the specific conspiracies alleged by the Deception Charges: at [1096]–[1101], [1104] and [1107]–[1100].21 The Court had earlier acquitted the accused persons of one Deception Charge at the close of the Prosecution’s case upon the Defence’s submission of no case to answer: at [1518]–[1519].The Cheating Charges22 There was dispute as to whether the Prosecution’s case in respect of the Cheating Charges could make out an offence under s 420 of the Penal Code. It was not the Prosecution’s case that the accused persons had made positive false representations and, thus, only omissions were in issue. The Defence contended that, in order to establish that there were impugnable omissions, it was insufficient for the Prosecution to assert that the accused persons had failed to “tell” IB or Goldman Sachs that they had been manipulating the markets for BAL shares. This was because, for an omission to amount to deception, “there must [have] either [been] a duty to act in a particular manner or to state a particular fact, or there must [have been] circumstances where silence [was] in itself a statement. None of that [was] the case here”.23 The Court rejected this argument. To begin, the Court observed that there was no dispute that a “dishonest concealment” of facts could constitute a deception (see Explanation 1 to s 415 of the Penal Code). There was nothing about Explanation 1, however, which suggested that “concealment” could only be effected if an accused person was under a separate legal obligation to disclose the relevant information. This was an unnecessarily narrow view of the Explanation: at [1119]–[1123].24 On this footing, the Court went on to analyse the six Cheating Charges with several crucial findings – made in the course of determining the False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges – in mind. First, that the accused persons had exercised control over the six accounts forming the subject of these charges. Second, that they had been involved in the provision and management of collateral placed in the accounts. Lastly, that they were guilty of the False Trading Charges. On these foundations, after undertaking its analysis of the evidence, the Court concluded: (a) that the accused persons had conspired to cheat both IB and Goldman Sachs; (b) that a deception had been practised on the FIs; (c) that the FIs had been deceived; (d) that the FIs had been induced by that deception to provide financing; and (e) that the accused persons had acted with dishonest intent. Accordingly, the Court convicted them of all six Cheating Charges. It was found that the substantive offences under s 420 of the Penal Code had been completed as well: at [1125]–[1157].25 Notably, in respect of the question of whether IB and Goldman Sachs had been induced to provide financing, the Defence contended that they had not been as they had made their own assessment and carried out their due diligence in deciding to accept BAL shares as collateral. For example, a Goldman Sachs’ representative gave evidence that, before a share was accepted as collateral, it had to be assessed by Goldman Sachs’ “PRISM” system, which “measures various collateral eligibility criteria … including liquidity, volatility, portfolio concentration, minimum price levels and minimum market capitalisation levels”. As against such sophisticated systems of assessment, it was argued that neither positive misrepresentations nor omissions, would have had any effect on the FIs’ decision to extend financing. The FIs would have “extended financing on their own accord, based on their own expert assessment” of the potential shares to be put up as collateral. The Court rejected this argument and took the view that, if the FIs had known that the markets for BAL shares were being manipulated, this information would have obviated the need for any review on their own part: at [149(c)] and [1132]–[1133].The Company Management Charges26 In respect of the Company Management Charges, the Court held that that s 148(1) of the Companies Act ought to catch persons who are given some measure of responsibility or area of discretion, or whose opinion is given some weight in the decision-making processes, on matters which affect the company and the conduct of its affairs. A person does not have to be at the highest echelons of a company to be concerned in its management: at [1161]–[1165].27 On this footing, the Court undertook a thorough analysis of the evidence available in respect of each of the three companies – Blumont, Asiasons and LionGold – and found that there was ample evidence to show that the First Accused had been concerned in their management. His involvement in LionGold was the most extensive, but it was also at a very high level vis-à-vis Blumont. While his involvement in the management of Asiasons was not as extensive, there was certainly enough to show that the threshold for s 148(1) had been crossed: at [1166]–[1196].The Witness Tampering Charges28 The Court restated the principles applicable to the offence of “obstructing, preventing, perverting or defeating course of justice” under s 204A of the Penal Code, as well as those applicable to attempted offences: at [1201]–[1210].29 Thereafter, the Court undertook a thorough analysis of the facts and evidence relevant to each of the eight Witness Tampering Charges. The Court found that each charge had been proven beyond reasonable doubt and convicted the First Accused of them accordingly. Notably, the Court observed that the manner in which the First Accused had gone about his acts of witness tampering in violation or attempted violation of s 204A of the Penal Code was methodical in the sense that he knew to address the evidence of crucial witnesses, and to do so from the early stages of the investigation: at [1211]–[1286].The Sentences ImposedSentences for the individual charges30 In respect of each of the five groups of charges, the Prosecution submitted that there were many factors which aggravated the severity of the offences committed: at [1353]–[1362], [1392]–[1394], [1411]–[1412], [1425] and [1429]. For example, in respect of the False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges, it was submitted that the court ought to take into consideration seven aggravating factors applicable to both accused persons. Namely: (a) the immense scale and sophistication of the Scheme; (b) the steps taken to evade detection; (c) the abuse of mechanisms designed to facilitate genuine trading; (d) the transnational elements; (e) the harm caused to the securities market; (f) the financial losses suffered by market participants; and (g) the financial gains made by the accused persons. Beyond these, the Prosecution additionally submitted that the Second Accused had abused her position as the Chief Executive Officer of IPCO International Limited, the parent company of several corporate Relevant Accountholders: at [1353] and [1362]. 31 The Court accepted that most but not all of the factors raised by the Prosecution were relevant aggravating factors: at [1365]–[1381], [1395]–[1406], [1415]–[1419], [1426] and [1431]–[1441]. As an example, the Court did not accept that the outstanding losses suffered by the FIs as a result of the Crash was a factor which aggravated the severity of the Deception Charges. The Court emphasised that the wrongful conduct forming the subject of the Deception Charges was quite broad – that the accused persons had concealed their “involvement” in the instructing of orders and trades in the Relevant Accounts. The Prosecution did not also allege and specifically prove that the Relevant Accountholders were truly nominees of the accused persons. This being the case, the Court took the view that the wrongful conduct alleged did not, by itself, necessarily increase the FIs’ risk in relation to each account. In the absence of proof that the Relevant Accountholders were truly nominees in the sense that beneficial interest in the BAL trades did not lie with them but with the accused persons, there was little to no risk that the accountholders would be able to viably dispute the trades carried out in their accounts. The FIs thus always had recourse against the Relevant Accountholders with whom they intended to deal, and whose risk profile they had assessed. Moreover, the accused persons’ mere “involvement” in the instructing of orders and trades was not the misconduct which created the risk which ultimately caused the FIs to suffer the substantial losses they did. That was the fact that the accused persons were manipulating the liquidity and prices of BAL shares, large volumes of which were staked to the FIs and being held in accounts in their care. When the Crash occurred, it was the inflated character of the BAL shares which led to the FIs’ losses. The harm caused to the FIs in terms of their unrecovered losses was clearly and directly connected to the False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges, unlike the deceptive practice alleged by the Deception Charges and those same losses: at [1395]–[1400].32 The Court also addressed the relative culpabilities of the accused persons in relation to the False Trading, Price Manipulation, Deception and Cheating Charges:(a) In respect of the ten False Trading and Price Manipulation Charges, the Court found that Second Accused was relatively less culpable because she was less involved in the Scheme in terms of its conceptualisation and in aspects of its execution, though she was equally, if not more, involved in laying its foundations. The Court generally assessed that her culpability could be said to be two-thirds that of the First Accused: at [1382]–[1387]. (b) In respect of the Deception Charges, the Court took the view that the Second Accused was just as culpable as the First Accused: at [1409].(c) In respect of the Cheating Charges specifically concerning Relevant Accounts held by accountholders other than the Second Accused, the Court took the view that the Second Accused’s culpability was four-fifths that of the First Accused. Where her own accounts with IB and Goldman Sachs were concerned, the Court pegged her culpability at a slightly higher level, though not equivalent to that of the First Accused: at [1423].33 In the premises, taking into consideration the factors it found to be relevant, the accused persons’ relative culpabilities, the Court imposed the following sentences in respect of the False Trading, Price Manipulation, Deception and Cheating Charges:Charge NoCharge(s)SentenceFirst AccusedSecond Accused 1False Trading;Blumont;3 years’ imprisonment2 years’ imprisonment2False Trading;Blumont;6 years’ imprisonment4 years’ imprisonment3Price Manipulation;Blumont;2 years’ imprisonment1 year and 4 months’ imprisonment4False Trading;Asiasons;4 years and 6 months’ imprisonment3 years’ imprisonment5False Trading;Asiasons;6 years’ imprisonment4 years’ imprisonment6Price Manipulation;Asiasons;2 years and 6 months’ imprisonment1 year and 8 months’ imprisonment7Price Manipulation;Asiasons;2 years’ imprisonment1 year and 4 months’ imprisonment8False Trading;LionGold;4 years and 6 months’ imprisonment3 years’ imprisonment9False Trading;LionGold;6 years’ imprisonment4 years’ imprisonment10Price Manipulation;LionGold;3 years’ imprisonment2 years’ imprisonment11–172All the Deception Charges of which the accused persons had been convicted (ie, Charges 11–172, excluding 96, 121, 122, 153, 157, 158, 160, 161 and 162). 1 year’s imprisonment173Cheating;FI – Goldman Sachs;Second Accused’s account;8 years imprisonment7 years’ imprisonment174Cheating;FI – Goldman Sachs;Mr James Hong Gee Ho’s account;Amount cheated – S$73.23 million;8 years imprisonment6 years and 6 months’ imprisonment175Cheating;FI – IB;Second Accused’s account;9 years’ imprisonment8 years’ imprisonment176Cheating;FI – IB;Mr Neo Kim Hock’s account;Amount cheated – S$232.16 million;9 years’ imprisonment7 years’ and 3 months’imprisonment177Cheating;FI – IB;Mr Tan Boon Kiat’s account;Amount cheated – S$117.68 million;8 years and 6 months’ imprisonment7 years’ imprisonment178FI – IB;Mr Peter Chen Hing Woon’s account;Amount cheated – S$130.61 million;8 years and 6 months’ imprisonment7 years’ imprisonment34 As regards the Company Management Charges, the Court determined that one year’s imprisonment on each of the three charges was appropriate: at [1427].35 For the Witness Tampering Charges, the Court determined that the appropriate sentence in respect of each of the five completed Witness Tampering Charges (Charges 182, 183, 184, 186 and 189) was three years’ imprisonment. In respect of the charges relating to the First Accused’s attempts (Charges 185, 187 and 188), the Court determined that the appropriate sentence for each charge was one year and six months’ imprisonment: at [1442].Aggregate sentences imposed on the accused persons36 As regards the First Accused, the Court ordered that the eight sentences for Charges 2, 5, 9, 13, 174, 175, 183 and 186 were to run consecutively. The sentences for the remaining charges were to run concurrently. The sentences imposed for these charges totalled 42 years’ imprisonment. However, the Court took the view that this global sentence warranted adjustments pursuant to the totality principle, to ensure that the global sentence was proportionate to the overall criminality but was not “crushing” on the First Accused who was 62-years old at the time of sentencing. Following adjustments to the sentences for the eight Charges which were to run consecutively, the Court arrived at an aggregate sentence of 36 years’ imprisonment: at [1451]–[1453].37 For the Second Accused, the Court ordered that the five sentences for Charges 2, 4, 9, 13 and 175 were to run consecutively. The sentences for the remaining charges were to run concurrently. The sentences imposed for these charges totalled 20 years’ imprisonment. The Court found this to be an appropriate global sentence and did not make further adjustments: at [1454]–[1455].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
