
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 October 2021Case summaryiVenture Card Ltd and others v Big Bus Singapore City Sightseeing Pte Ltd and others [2021] SGCA 97Civil Appeal No 94 of 2020------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Steven Chong JCA, Woo Bih Li JAD and Quentin Loh JAD:Outcome: The court allows the appeal in part. Pertinent and significant points of the judgmenta. A director will be protected from liability for his company’s breaches of contract, notwithstanding that he procured such breaches, if in so doing he did not breach any of his personal legal duties to the company.b. Damages are awarded for a breach of contract to put the innocent party in as good a position as if the contract had been performed. Thus, in assessing damages for anticipatory breaches of contract, the court may take into account events post-dating the breaches in appropriate cases. c. Similarly, an appellate court may, in assessing the damages to be awarded, take into account supervening events known to it but not to the trial court in exceptional situations where the supervening events fall outside the field or area of uncertainty in which the trial judge’s estimate had previously been made, where said events falsify basic assumptions common to both sides, or where to refuse to take the events into account would affront common sense or a sense of justice.Background1. The appellants are part of the iVenture Group of companies which is engaged in the business of developing and marketing tourist packages worldwide. The first and second respondents are part of the Duck and HiPPO Group of companies, which is a Singapore tourism business. The third respondent, Mr Heng See Eng (“Mr Heng”), was at all material times a director and the chief executive of the first and second respondents.2. On 17 December 2014, the iVenture Group agreed to a business collaboration with the Duck and HiPPO Group to create and bring to market a co-branded tourist attraction aggregator pass, or “TAAP”, called the Singapore iVenture Pass (“the Pass”). In connection with the business collaboration, the first appellant, iVenture Card Limited (“iVenture Card”), entered into a Licence Agreement, dated 27 March 2015, with the first respondent, Big Bus Singapore City Sightseeing Pte Ltd (“Big Bus”). Under this agreement, iVenture Card would sell the Pass on its online website and grant Big Bus a licence to operate the Pass business and use the iVenture brand in Singapore. 3. In addition, iVenture Card and its related company, Smartvisit Pty Ltd (“Smartvisit”)  and Big Bus entered into a Service Level Agreement, also dated 27 March 2015. Under this agreement, iVenture Card and Smartvisit would provide Big Bus with technical services and access to an IT system called the “Smartvisit System” to support the operations of the Pass business in exchange for the payment of monthly fees and various other fees by Big Bus to iVenture Card. Part of the Smartvisit System was a transaction processing and reporting system called the “SORSE System”. The Licence Agreement and the Service Level Agreement both included mutual dependency clauses which essentially stated that one agreement could be terminated immediately by notice in writing once the other had been terminated. Both the Licence Agreement and the Service Level Agreement contractually expired on 26 September 2020.4. The parties also entered into an informal “Reseller Arrangement” which was never reduced to writing, under which entities in the iVenture Group were permitted to resell the Pass on Big Bus’ behalf. The parties dispute when the Reseller Arrangement was entered into, which entity in the iVenture Group was the proper contracting party thereto (whether it was iVenture Card or the third appellant, iVenture Card Travel Ltd (“iVenture Travel”), which was the entity to which invoices for sums due under the Reseller Arrangement were billed), and what its payment terms were.5. Sometime after the launch of the Pass, starting from October 2017, the parties’ relationship rapidly deteriorated owing to Big Bus’ unhappiness over late payments by iVenture Card of the amounts due under the Reseller Arrangement. The escalating tensions and email exchanges between the parties culminated in Big Bus suspending, on 8 November 2017, the sales, activation and redemption of the Pass (“the Pass Suspension”) until an invoice dated 30 September 2017 (“the September Invoice”) was settled. This prompted iVenture Card to retaliate later that same day by locking Big Bus out of access to the SORSE System (“the SORSE System Suspension”) until business was resumed. iVenture Card subsequently paid the September Invoice on 9 November 2017. However, Big Bus refused to lift the Pass Suspension and, on 10 November 2017, imposed further extraneous conditions for doing so, while requesting that iVenture Card lift the SORSE System Suspension. iVenture Card refused to do so.6. Also on 10 November 2017, the second respondent, Singapore Ducktours Pte Ltd (“Ducktours”) launched the HiPPO Singapore Pass, a TAAP which listed similar attractions as the Pass, but which utilised different technologies for its back-end IT system (QR Code technology) as compared to that of the Pass (smart chip technology).7. Solicitors from both parties exchanged a series of letters. Of these, the most pertinent to this appeal were a letter from Big Bus’ solicitors dated 6 December 2017 (“the 6 December 2017 Letter”) to the solicitors for the iVenture Group, which claimed that iVenture Card had repudiated the Licence Agreement and stated that they regarded both the Licence Agreement and the Service Level Agreement as at an end, and a letter from iVenture Group’s solicitors dated 8 December 2017 (“the 8 December 2017 Letter”) which asserted that Big Bus’ notice of termination amounted to a repudiatory breach of the Licence Agreement and the Service Level Agreement and gave notice of iVenture Card’s acceptance of that repudiation.8. A few months after these events, the respondents launched a replacement TAAP business by collaborating with Luxury Tours and Travel to mitigate their loss of profit as a result of Big Bus’ actions.9. The appellants sued the respondents for breach of contract, breach of confidence, and the torts of inducing breach of contract and conspiracy. The respondents counterclaimed for various sums owed by iVenture Card under the agreements. The High Court Judge (the “Judge”) held that Big Bus had breached both the Licence Agreement and the Reseller Arrangement, and that iVenture Card had breached the Service Level Agreement. However, each of these breaches was an operative cause of the loss of profits from the Pass business. Additionally, the Judge found that Ducktours and Mr Heng, alongside Mr Low Lee Huat, the other director and shareholder of Big Bus and Ducktours, were jointly and severally liable in the tort of inducing breach of contract and conspiracy for Big Bus’ breaches of contract. However, Mr Heng and Mr Low could take advantage of the common law protection against personal liability as they had acted bona fide in the interests of Big Bus. The Judge rejected the breach of confidence claim for lack of merit.10. On the basis of the above, the Judge thus awarded Big Bus and iVenture Card nominal damages of S$1,000 for their respective breaches of contract and iVenture Card additional damages of S$778.32 for the loss of profits from the Pass business for one day, 8 November 2017, when only the Pass Suspension was in effect. Ducktours was jointly and severally liable with Big Bus for the said damages. The Judge also ordered iVenture Card to pay various sums which he found it owed to Big Bus under the agreements.11. Significantly, the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore, which severely impacted tourism in Singapore, occurred after evidence had been taken in the trial and became manifest during the parties’ written closing submissions and before the judgment of the High Court was issued.The Court of Appeal’s decisionThe parties to and payment terms of the Reseller Arrangement12. The Court of Appeal (“the CA”) noted that the evidence pointed to iVenture Card, and not iVenture Travel as the appellants claimed, being the proper contracting party to the Reseller Arrangement. Most importantly, the appellants had originally pleaded that iVenture Card and not iVenture Travel was the contracting party, which lent weight to the view that iVenture Travel was the apparent billing party for convenience: at [26]–[33].13. There was also a difficulty raised by the appellants’ pleaded case as they had originally pleaded that the parties to the Reseller Arrangement were iVenture Card and Big Bus, and later amended it to plead that the parties were in fact iVenture Travel and Big Bus, claiming relief on that basis. There was no alternative plea that if iVenture Travel was not found to be the contracting party, then iVenture Card would be the contracting party and could claim relief for breach of the Reseller Arrangement. However, the present appeal was exceptional for two reasons. First, the High Court Judge had granted relief to Big Bus against iVenture Card for unpaid invoices under the Reseller Arrangement and it would be incongruous to deny iVenture Card’s claim against Big Bus for breach of the same agreement on the basis that it was not pleaded. Second, there was no prejudice to Big Bus because Big Bus had pleaded and led evidence contending that iVenture Card was the party to the Reseller Arrangement. The failure of iVenture Card to maintain a plea in the alternative in the event that they were held to be the proper party to the Reseller Arrangement thus did not, in the unique circumstances of this case, preclude its claim for damages for Big Bus’ breach of the Reseller Arrangement: at [35]–[42].14.  The evidence showed that a 30-day credit term applied to invoices issued for sums payable under the Reseller Arrangement: at [44]–[45].Whether iVenture Card had breached the Service Level Agreement15. While there were provisions in the Service Level Agreement which stipulated that the Licence Agreement be in effect, they did not render the performance of the Licence Agreement a condition precedent to the continued performance of the Service Level Agreement. The performance of the Service Level Agreement was not rendered otiose, impossible or futile by the Pass Suspension: at [51]–[54] and [57]–[60].16. iVenture Card was also not contractually entitled to impose the SORSE System Suspension and had breached the Service Level Agreement in so doing. Such a breach, however, was not repudiatory in nature because the SORSE System Suspension was clearly intended to pressure Big Bus to lift the Pass Suspension and resume the parties’ business collaboration, where the parties would perform all of their respective contractual obligations under the Licence Agreement, the Service Level Agreement and the Reseller Arrangement. iVenture Card’s conduct did not objectively convey the impression that it no longer intended to be bound by its contractual obligations under the Service Level Agreement. The obligation to provide access to the SORSE System was also not an express condition of the Service Level Agreement, nor would the SORSE System Suspension deprive Big Bus of substantially the whole benefit it intended to obtain from the Service Level Agreement when it was Big Bus itself which, by the Pass Suspension, deprived itself of at least as much, if not more, of the benefit of that agreement: at [55]–[56], [61] and [69]–[75].Whether Big Bus repudiated the agreements17. Big Bus had committed a repudiatory breach of the Licence Agreement and the Reseller Arrangement by imposing the Pass Suspension on 8 November 2017. However, iVenture Card did not accept this repudiation. Big Bus, however, wrongfully repudiated the Licence Agreement, the Service Level Agreement and the Reseller Arrangement by the 6 December 2017 Letter. The appellants accepted this repudiation of the three agreements by the 8 December 2017 Letter. It was not disputed on appeal that Ducktours and Mr Heng were jointly and severally liable for damages in respect of Big Bus’ breaches of the agreements: at [79]–[81].Whether Mr Heng was protected from liability for Big Bus’ breaches of the agreements18. Mr Heng was protected from liability for Big Bus’ breaches of the agreement since he did not breach his own duties to Big Bus in procuring the said breaches. His causing Big Bus to discontinue the business collaboration with iVenture Card, and to demand an advance remittance and a banker’s guarantee to lift the Pass Suspension when Big Bus had no right to make such damages, was plainly actuated by a desire to protect Big Bus from exposure to iVenture Card’s credit risk, which arose from its intransigent and unrepentant attitude to making prompt payments for sums owed: at [86]–[89].Whether Big Bus was liable for breach of confidence19. The three elements of an action for breach of confidence by the disclosure or use of information are that the information disclosed must possess the quality of confidentiality, the information must have been imparted in circumstances importing an obligation of confidence and that there must have been some unauthorised use of that information to the detriment of the party from whom the information originated. The appellants having proved the first two elements on the evidence, an action for breach of confidence was presumed and the respondents bore the burden of showing that they had not acted unconscionably. The Judge had accepted, and the evidence showed, that the respondents had not misused the appellants’ confidential information. The appellants’ claim for breach of confidence therefore failed: at [91]–[100].Assessment of iVenture Card’s damages from the three agreements20. The compensatory principle in assessing damages for breach of contract is that such damages are awarded to put an innocent party in as good a position as if the contract had been performed, but the extent of damages awarded is subject to the limiting doctrines of causation and remoteness: at [103] and [132].21. The sole operative cause of the loss of profits from the Pass Business was Big Bus’ imposition of the Pass Suspension. This was because Big Bus unilaterally imposed demands for an advance remittance and a banker’s guarantee before it would agree to lift the Pass Suspension. As such, whether or not the appellants’ SORSE System Suspension remained in place or not would not have had the effect of resuming the Pass business: at [105]–[110].22. The damages for loss of profit on the Licence Agreement, the Service Level Agreement and the Reseller Arrangement claimed by iVenture Card in respect of Big Bus’ Pass Suspension was not remote since the natural consequence of Big Bus’ repudiation of the Licence Agreement and the Reseller Arrangement by the Pass Suspension was the cessation of the Pass business and it was reasonably contemplated that any deprivation of iVenture Card of its entire benefit under the Licence Agreement would entitle it to bring both the Licence Agreement and the Service Level Agreement to an end as a result of the mutual dependency clauses: at [111].23. There was very little material on which to depart from the Judge’s preference for the expert evidence of the appellants’ expert witness. In any case, despite some unsatisfactory aspects of the said expert evidence, the respondents challenged it only on the basis that the projected loss of profits from the three agreements were too optimistic in view of the COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore, which the CA could take judicial notice of: at [115]–[117] and [154]–[155].24. The appellants could not claim for loss of profits beyond the contractual expiry date of the Licence Agreement and the Service Level Agreement of 26 September 2020 because their claim that the agreements would have been renewed beyond that date were speculative and without merit: at [123]–[127].25. It was open to the court, in assessing damages for anticipatory breaches of contract, to take into account events post-dating the breaches since the court should not speculate when it knows. The fact that this approach may undermine commercial certainty does not in itself justify a departure from the compensatory principle so as to award a claimant windfall damages representing benefits it would not have obtained if the contract had been performed. Similarly, an appellate court, in assessing the damages to be awarded, may take into account supervening events known to it but not to the trial court in exceptional situations where the supervening events fall outside the field or area of uncertainty in which the trial judge’s estimate had previously been made, where the said events falsify basic assumptions common to both sides, or where to refuse to take the events into account would affront common sense or a sense of justice: at [132]–[151].26. The assessment of the lost profits from the three agreements (for which Big Bus and Ducktours are jointly and severally liable) made by the appellants’ expert witness was with hindsight overly optimistic since it did not take into account the COVID-19 pandemic, which had an unprecedented and severe impact on tourist activity in Singapore and around the world in 2020, and such effects certainly persisted during the period up to 26 September 2020 when the agreements would have expired. It would have affronted common sense if the original assessment of the lost profits by the appellants’ expert witness had been sustained and damages awarded on that basis: at [153]–[156] and [164].27. Unless the parties could come to an agreed reduction in the aforesaid damages to be awarded as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the matter of assessing the damages would have to be remitted back to the Judge to receive evidence in order to decide on the appropriate reduction to be made to the damages in the period from 25 March 2020 to 26 September 2020. It is to be assumed that there would be no tourists in Singapore from 25 March 2020 up to 26 September 2020 when the agreements would have expired. Mr Watts’ assessment of Lost Profits from 8 November 2017 to 25 March 2020 was accepted by the CA: at [157] and [164].28. The Judge’s award of damages to iVenture Card for Big Bus’ breaches of the agreements (for which Big Bus and Ducktours was jointly and severally liable) was set aside. The Judge’s orders as to the other sums payable by iVenture Card and Big Bus, including interest, were to stand: at [164].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
