
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE4 October 2021Case summaryBloomberry Resorts and Hotels Inc and another v Global Gaming Philippines LLC and another [2021] SCGA 94Civil Appeal No 98 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal upholds the High Court’s decision to dismiss an application to set aside an arbitral award on remedies (the “Remedies Award”) and to resist its enforcement. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  An arbitral tribunal’s powers may broadly be described as comprising (a) procedural powers; (b) substantive powers; and (c) remedial powers. An arbitral tribunal’s remedial powers are broad and akin to a court’s powers, as s 12(5)(a) of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“IAA”) provides. However, s 12 of the IAA does not confer upon arbitral tribunals the power to grant all the reliefs that the High Court can grant. The power to grant a remedy or relief does not include the High Court’s coercive powers. Enforcement of arbitral awards, orders and directions are matters squarely within the domain of the courts. Background1 The present dispute arose out of a Management Services Agreement (the “MSA”) entered into between the appellants and the first respondent on 9 September 2011, under which the first respondent was to manage the development and operation of the Solaire Resort and Casino (the “Solaire Casino”). Clause 18.3 of the MSA also granted the first respondent the option to purchase up to 10% of the shares (the “Shares”) in the appellants’ parent company, Bloomberry Resorts Corporation (“BRC”). Prime Metroline Holdings Inc (“PMHI”) was the majority shareholder of BRC and the controlling shareholder of the appellants. Exercising its rights under that clause, on 16 April 2012, the first respondent signed an Equity Option Agreement (the “EOA”) with BRC and Prime Metroline Transit Corp (“PMTC”), the latter being the predecessor in interest of PMHI. This granted the first respondent the option to purchase 921,184,056 of BRC’s shares (the “Shares”) at PHP 1.67 per share (the “Option”) from PMTC. On 20 December 2012, the first respondent exercised the Option and purchased the Shares for approximately US$37.43m. 2 In July 2013, the appellants alleged that the respondents had committed a material breach of the MSA and issued a formal Notice of Termination on 12 September 2013. The respondents then commenced arbitration proceedings (the “Arbitration”) against the appellants for wrongful termination, pursuant to cl 19.2 of the MSA (the “Arbitration Clause”). The Arbitration was bifurcated into liability and damages tranches. 3 On 20 September 2016, the arbitral tribunal (the “Tribunal”) issued its partial award on liability (the “Liability Award”), rejecting the appellants’ claims of misrepresentation, casual fraud or that the termination of the MSA was justified. The Tribunal also held that there was no basis upon which to require the return of the Shares to the appellants, or for the appellants to challenge the respondents’ title to the Shares. Subsequently, in Bloomberry Resorts and Hotels Inc and another v Global Gaming Philippines LLC and another [2021] 1 SLR 1045 (the “CA Judgment”), the Court of Appeal rejected the appellants’ efforts to have the Liability Award set aside and/or to be refused enforcement. 4 On 27 September 2019, the Tribunal issued the Remedies Award. In the Remedies Award, the Tribunal ordered the appellants to pay the respondents the following sums: (a) US$85.2m as damages for lost management fees; (b) US$391,224 as damages for pre-termination fees and expenses; (c) US$14,998,052 as costs; and (d) interest. Further, owing to the appellants’ interference with the respondents’ attempts to sell the Shares after the MSA was terminated, the Tribunal ordered the appellants to pay the full value of the Shares based on their value as of 9 December 2014, assessed to be PHP 10,169,871,978.24 (approximately US$199m), in exchange for the respondents’ transfer of the Shares to the appellants. In doing so, the Tribunal imposed a “Constructive Remedy”, making it clear that should the appellants fail to pay for and take over the Shares, the respondents were entitled to sell the Shares on the market, and the appellants were to undertake steps to facilitate such sale of the Shares.  5 The appellants applied to the High Court to set aside the Remedies Award, and alternatively, to resist its enforcement on the basis that (a) that the Remedies Award dealt with matters beyond the scope of submission to arbitration; (b) that the Tribunal made the Remedies Award in breach of natural justice; and (c) that the enforcement of the Remedies Award would be contrary to the public policy of Singapore. On 29 May 2020, the High Court Judge (the “Judge”) dismissed the appellants’ applications. The appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision. The Court of Appeal’s decisionAn arbitral tribunal’s powers6 The powers exercisable by an arbitral tribunal may broadly be described as comprising (a) procedural powers; (b) substantive powers; and (c) remedial powers. In particular, an arbitral tribunal’s remedial powers are broad and akin to a court’s powers, as provided for by s 12(5)(a) of the IAA. However, s 12 of the IAA does not confer upon arbitral tribunals the power to grant all the reliefs that the High Court can grant. The power to grant a remedy or relief does not include the High Court’s coercive powers. Enforcement of arbitral awards, orders and directions are matters squarely within the domain of the courts (at [108] to [115]).Whether the Remedies Award dealt with matters beyond the scope of submission to the Arbitration7 The issue of the appellants’ interference with the Shares was within the scope of submission to the Arbitration. First, the Arbitration Clause was wide enough to cover the particular dispute regarding the Shares as it covered any dispute that “arises out of or is related to” the MSA, and the Shares were acquired pursuant to a right given to the respondents by the MSA. Next, the parties expressly submitted the issue regarding the Shares to the Arbitration, as was clearly discernible from the parties’ pleadings and actions. What is most pertinent is that the entire issue of the Shares, and indeed the appellants’ interference with them, arose even before the Tribunal was constituted and it was dealt with by the Tribunal as one of its first steps upon constitution via an Interim Measures Order (the “Interim Order”) issued on 9 December 2014. The appellants had themselves stated that the issue of the Shares had been framed for the Arbitration. Not only did the appellants not object to the Tribunal’s jurisdiction in respect of the issue of the Shares up to the point of the Liability Award, but they actively submitted to it. They were thus quite content to resist the respondents’ claims on the merits, having put before the Tribunal their own claim for the Shares and damages arising therefrom (at [76], [79] to [98]).8 The Constructive Remedy did not affect the rights of a third party. First, the appellants’ consistent position in the Arbitration up until the issuance of the Liability Award was that they were entitled to rescission of the EOA and restitution of the Shares, on behalf of their agent, PMHI. Second, the Tribunal did not make any orders that purported to bind PMHI, as a third party and a non-party to the Arbitration. The Tribunal was cognisant that any non-party to the Arbitration could not and would not be subject to any of its orders and the relief it gave to the respondents reflected this understanding. Finally, the respondents recognised that they could not hold PMHI liable for any failure of the appellants to comply with the Constructive Remedy (at [102] to [106]).9 The Tribunal had not attempted to enforce its own orders by the imposition of the Constructive Remedy. In fashioning the Constructive Remedy, the Tribunal had sought to compensate the respondents for the loss occasioned to them from January 2014 onwards when the appellants first interfered with the intended sale of the Shares. The Tribunal did not seek to mandate enforcement of its prior orders. The Tribunal’s reasoning demonstrated a clear compensatory methodology in awarding damages to the respondents. The appellants’ actions in preventing the attempted sale of the Shares by their recourse to the Philippine courts and, thereafter, their wilful non-compliance in respect of the Interim Order and the Liability Award were the means by which they interfered with the Shares. The damages awarded by the Tribunal were for the interference with the Shares and not for failure to comply with the Interim Order and Liability Award as such. The Constructive Remedy was a pragmatic solution to the realities of the situation, aimed at facilitating the sale of the Shares. Much like a court does, the Tribunal fashioned a remedy in light of all the circumstances and could not be faulted for doing so (at [123] to [133] and [136]).10 The imposition of the Constructive Remedy did not deprive the appellants of their passive remedy of resisting enforcement of an award or order. The appellants were themselves resisting enforcement of the Remedies Award in the present action. Their right had not been undermined in any meaningful sense by the Constructive Remedy (at [139] to [141]). 11 The Constructive Remedy was not punitive in nature. The respondents’ own position before the Tribunal was that a valuation method that compensated the respondent for actual damages, in other words, one not based on the Highest Intermediate Value (“HIDV”) methodology, would not be punitive. The Tribunal had decided not to adopt the HIDV approach to valuation and had instead chosen a remedy designed to compensate the respondents. Likewise, the Tribunal’s use of the word ‘recalcitrance’ in the Remedies Award was not sufficiently probative of the Constructive Remedy being a punitive award of damages (at [144] to [152]).Whether the Remedies Award was made in breach of natural justice12 The appellants had adequate opportunity to present their case, as they had sought remedies for the situation that would arise if the Tribunal reversed its findings in the Liability Award, and in the alternative, also remedies if the Tribunal did not revisit the Liability Award. In addition, the Tribunal did not consider the two documents the appellants alleged were discoverable only after the issuance of the Liability Award (ie, the 7 April 2016 Order by the US Securities and Exchange Commission as well as a Non-Prosecution Agreement dated 17 January 2017) only in so far as these related to the issue of liability. This was, as a matter of law, entirely unimpeachable (at [156] to [158]).13 There was a paucity of evidence to suggest any concealment of documents by the respondents and their counsel in the Arbitration aimed at deceiving the Tribunal. This argument was not a new one. It was raised in the appellants’ prior challenge to the Liability Award and was rejected in the CA Judgment (at [160]).Whether enforcement of the Remedies Award would be contrary to the public policy of Singapore14 Enforcement of the Remedies Award would not be contrary to the public policy of Singapore. Nothing in the Remedies Award prevented the appellants from performing their alleged duties as withholding agents and paying any taxes due on the award sums. Enforcement of the Remedies Award could hardly be said to require the appellants to violate Philippine tax laws. Avoiding any non-compliance with Philippine tax law was wholly within the control of the appellants – their duties, and obligations, if any, remained entirely unaffected by the Tribunal’s award of damages in the Remedies Award (at [163] to [167]).  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
