
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 October 2023Case summaryCrédit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, Singapore Branch v PPT Energy Trading Co Ltd and another appeal [2023] SGCA(I) 7Court of Appeal — Civil Appeal Nos 2 and 3 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA, Jonathan Hugh Mance IJ and Bernard Rix IJ):Outcome: The court allows the appellant’s appeals in part. The appellant bank was not entitled to rely on its customer’s fraud to set aside and avoid liability to pay under a letter of credit issued in favour of the respondent. However, the court finds that the respondent had breached the warranty of marketable title given in a letter of indemnity to the appellant and gives judgment in favour of the appellant in the sum of US$10,319,470.81.Background 1 These appeals arise out of two cases heard by the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”), SIC/S 1/2021 (“Suit 1”) and SIC/S 2/2021 (“Suit 2”). Crédit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank (“CACIB”) was the plaintiff in Suit 1 and the defendant in Suit 2. PPT Energy Trading Co. Ltd. (“PPT”) was the defendant in Suit 1 and the plaintiff in Suit 2. The Judge in the SICC (the “Judge”) dismissed CACIB’s claim in Suit 1 and allowed PPT’s claim in Suit 2.2 CACIB was induced by the fraud of Zenrock Commodities Trading Pte Ltd (“Zenrock”) to issue an unconfirmed letter of credit dated 3 April 2020 subject to The Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits 600 (“UCP 600”) in favour of PPT, under which payment should, in the ordinary course, have been made on 5 June 2020. In Suits 1 and 2, CACIB sought the following remedies: (a) an injunction to restrain payment of any sums under the letter of credit; (b) a declaration that PPT was not entitled to receive any sums under the letter of credit at that date or at all and that CACIB was not liable for any sum under the letter of credit; and (c) an order that PPT reimburse CACIB for sums debited pursuant to the terms of the letter of credit together with interest; or(d) if PPT was so entitled to receive payment under the letter of credit, then a finding that PPT was liable, under a letter of indemnity (the “LOI”) which PPT issued to CACIB in lieu of presentation of shipping documents under the credit, to indemnify CACIB for any and all such losses arising from PPT’s breaches of the representation and warranties in the LOI.3 In the course of the proceedings below, CACIB took out an ex parte application for payment under the letter of credit to be prohibited, which resulted in the issuance of an interim injunction on 28 May 2020 (the “Interim Injunction”) prohibiting payment under or pursuant to the letter of credit.4 An accommodation was reached between CACIB and PPT pursuant to which the Interim Injunction was to be discharged. Payment under the letter of credit was to be made by CACIB to PPT in return for a bank guarantee from PPT’s bank, Bank of China (“BOC”) for reimbursement, should the court hold that CACIB’s original refusal to pay was justified. The guarantee was secured by the blocking, in an escrow account, of the amount paid by CACIB as counter-security for BOC’s guarantee. CACIB made the payment under the letter of credit to PPT on 18 November 2020. PPT therefore cross-claimed for a declaration that payment was due under the credit, and for damages for non-payment, including the costs of obtaining the guarantee and the borrowing costs of a loan from a subsidiary company.The material facts5 To facilitate its purchase of crude oil from PPT for on-selling to Total Oil Trading SA (“TOTSA”), Zenrock had applied for a letter of credit to be issued by CACIB in favour of PPT. The credit for which Zenrock applied was to be operable against presentation of shipping documents including signed bills of lading and PPT’s signed commercial invoice referring to the shipment FOB of 920,000 net US barrels (plus or minus 5%) of crude oil from Djeno in the Congo (the “Cargo”). The unit price of the Cargo was stated to be the average of the mean quotations published in Platt’s crude oil marketwire under the heading Brent Dated (the “Brent rate”) on the bill of lading date plus a premium of US$3.24 per barrel. The letter of credit also provided that, “in case” such shipping documents were “not available at time of presentation”, then payment was to be made upon the presentation of the beneficiary’s signed commercial invoice and the beneficiary’s signed LOI.6 To obtain credit facilities from CACIB, Zenrock had previously executed a deed of charge in favour of CACIB, which granted to CACIB a floating charge on all goods financed by CACIB. Zenrock had a sale contract dated 30 March 2020 for the sale of Djeno crude oil to TOTSA, but it was at a price of only the Brent rate minus US$3.6 per barrel. Zenrock simply doctored a copy of its sale contract with TOTSA to make it appear to CACIB that the price under the TOTSA contract was the Brent rate plus US$3.6 per barrel, thereby covering the amount of the proposed credit. CACIB on 1 April 2020 gave notice to TOTSA of the assignment of the TOTSA receivable, which TOTSA counter-signed on 3 April 2020.7 The effect of Zenrock’s fraud was evident from the commercial invoice issued by Zenrock to TOTSA, which related to a bill of lading quantity of 920,191.814 net US barrels shipped from Djeno on the vessel Indigo Nova on 6 April 2020 at a unit price of US$17.95 per barrel, making US$16,517,443.06 the total amount payable to Zenrock. In contrast, the amount payable by reference to the same shipment under the credit which Zenrock induced CACIB to open in PPT’s favour was US$25.715 per barrel, making a total of US$23,662,732.50. This latter amount is nearly US$8 more per barrel than the former and was about 50% higher than the market price.8 There were three further peculiarities in the trading background. First, TOTSA was not only Zenrock’s buyer, but also was at the head of a chain under which it sold 920,000 net US barrels (5% plus or minus) FOB Djeno to SOCAR Trading SA (“SOCAR”), which on 26 March 2020 on-sold the same amount to Zenrock. 9 Second, to finance its purchase from SOCAR, Zenrock had applied to ING Bank NV (“ING”) for a credit in SOCAR’s favour, had assigned to ING its receivable under its contract with TOTSA and executed a deed of charge creating a floating charge over all goods financed by ING as well as over “unencumbered goods” not financed by ING. SOCAR had on 31 March 2020 given notice to TOTSA of Zenrock’s assignment. However, on 1 April 2020, Zenrock had asked TOTSA not to approve ING’s assignment, saying that there had been a mistake and that the receivable to be assigned to TOTSA had actually been assigned to CACIB. It appears that Zenrock had decided to defraud CACIB by introducing a small circle of over-priced contracts which CACIB would be induced to support by Zenrock’s production of the doctored copy of its contract for on-sale to TOTSA.10 Third and most significantly, Zenrock’s original approach to PPT had been to seek PPT’s involvement in a different circular trade, which would have involved Zenrock on-selling to PPT the cargo acquired from SOCAR, with PPT on-selling such cargo to another company, Trafigura Pte Ltd (“Trafigura”), which would re-sell to Zenrock, which would deliver it under the final TOTSA contract. The Judge found that PPT became aware of its circularity and that Zenrock wished PPT to avoid using CACIB to finance its proposed purchase from Zenrock, because Zenrock and Trafigura were already using CACIB and did not want CACIB to “see the whole chain”. In the event, Trafigura was eventually withdrawn from this proposed circle. On or about 1 April 2020, Zenrock arranged the interposition of PPT into a different trading circle, involving the purchase by one Shandong Energy International (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“Shandong”) from Zenrock of the cargo at Brent rate plus US$3.02 per barrel and a sale by Shandong to PPT at Brent rate plus US$3.02 per barrel. PPT was presented with arrangements made by Zenrock for both its purchase from Shandong and its on-sale back to Zenrock. 11 On 23 April 2020, TOTSA, having received notices of assignment from both SOCAR and CACIB in respect of the amount receivable under Zenrock’s sale to it, emailed ING and CACIB seeking an urgent explanation from Zenrock as to the legitimate beneficiary of the amount receivable. TOTSA pointed out to CACIB that it had been given a forged version of the Zenrock-TOTSA sale contract. On 28 May 2020, CACIB applied to the General Division of the High Court for and obtained the Interim Injunction restraining payment under the letter of credit. This remained in force until 13 November 2020, whereafter payment was made on the basis indicated at [4] above. 12 Under Art 14(b) of the UCP 600, CACIB had five banking days following the presentation of the letter of credit to examine the documents and to determine whether they were compliant. Under Art 16(c) read with Art 16(d), CACIB also had, within those five days, to notify PPT or BOC as presenter of the documents of each discrepancy on which it relied in order to refuse to honour or negotiate. Under Art 16(f), a bank which fails to act in accordance with the provisions of Art 16 “shall be precluded from claiming that the documents do not constitute a complying presentation”. As CACIB did not make any notification of any discrepancy pursuant to Art 16(c) read with Art 16(d), CACIB was, as the Judge held, precluded under Art 16(f) from resisting payment under the terms of the credit. The letter of credit 13 A letter of credit issued by a bank in favour of a seller-beneficiary gives rise to a binding contractual relationship, separate or autonomous from the underlying contractual relationship between the buyer and seller. Such an instrument is by mercantile usage enforceable immediately upon issue, without consideration. CACIB’s letter of credit in favour of PPT was expressly subject to the autonomy of a credit from underlying transactions and related contracts: at [18] and [19].14 The established common law exception to this rule is the fraudulent presentation rule, where the seller, for the purpose of drawing on the credit, fraudulently presents to the confirming bank documents that contain, expressly or by implication, material representations of fact that to his knowledge are untrue: at [20].  15 There was no support for CACIB’s submission that a bank was entitled to impugn the validity of a letter of credit on a claim that it had been induced by the buyer, its customer, to issue a letter of credit in favour of a seller-beneficiary. The cases that CACIB cited were confined carefully and expressly to situations where the seller-beneficiary was party to the fraud or misrepresentation. Nothing in Art 4 of the UCP 600 lent support to CACIB’s submission. CACIB fused the two relationships between: (a) the bank’s customer and the bank; and (b) the bank and the seller-beneficiary in a manner which was without precedent: at [23], [24], [25] and [28]. 16 If a credit was fabricated, so as to be a nullity, and somehow issued so as to make it appear that it came from the bank named in it, it would not be a document to which the bank named in it was party at all. But fraud by a bank’s customer inducing a bank to issue to a third party beneficiary a credit is not analogous to a situation of nullity: at [29]. 17 The fundamental problem with CACIB’s case on the letter of credit was that it would, if accepted, significantly undermine the whole system of documentary credits. No seller-beneficiary could be assured of payment under a letter of credit, without investigating the integrity of the issuing bank’s customer in its relationship with the issuing bank, which is a practical impossibility, or without seeking some further contractual protection or insurance against the risk that the issuing bank’s customer may have misled the issuing bank: at [31]. The letter of indemnity 18 As called for under the letter of credit, PPT issued the LOI to CACIB in the absence of bills of lading for the Cargo. The LOI contained two relevant promises. The first was PPT’s warranty that “at the time property passed under the contract [PPT] had marketable title to such shipment, free and clear of any lien or encumbrance” (the “Warranty”). The second was its agreement to “protect, indemnify and save [CACIB] harmless from and against any and all damages, costs and expenses … which [CACIB] may suffer or incur by reason of the original bills of lading remaining outstanding or breach of warranties given above” (the “Indemnity”): at [32] and [34].Issue 1: The true construction and effect of the LOI19 The LOI was effective, for its true terms, from the date of its issue. In the absence of the bills of lading, it was already PPT’s obligation, if it wished to take advantage of CACIB’s letter of credit, to supply the agreed LOI, as it was CACIB’s obligation, if the LOI was provided, to pay under the letter of credit. The underlying arrangement therefore entailed that PPT had no option but to provide the LOI if it wanted to be paid, and that CACIB had no option, if the LOI was provided, but to pay the agreed credit. PPT could not withdraw the LOI once it had been provided, or at any rate once CACIB had indicated that it was accepting it. The LOI itself provided that it remained valid (ie, that it could not be withdrawn) until presentation of the bills of lading or for one year after the bill of lading date: at [51], [52] and [53]. 20 There was no need to construe the reference to “at the due date for payment” in the LOI as a strict condition, as distinct from a description of the obligation and an innominate term. An obligation of timely payment is not a condition making time of the essence, even where emphasised by a termination clause. In context, CACIB’s obligation to pay on 5 June 2020 was already to be found in the letter of credit, where the obligation was not a condition. The equivalent obligation in the LOI should thus not be construed as a condition. Eventually, CACIB paid on the letter of credit, and paid interest in remedy of the breach of late payment: at [55]. 21 The LOI did not in terms say that the payment is to be made under the sale contract as distinct from “at the due date for payment under the terms of the above contract”. As things stood, that was the date for payment under the letter of credit. Payment of the letter of credit at its due date therefore amounted to payment of the stipulated price at the due date for payment under the terms of the sale contract: at [56]. 22 The Interim Injunction obtained by CACIB against payment of the letter of credit amount did not have the effect of extending time for payment. The due date under the terms of the sale contract could not be affected by the court’s order without making Zenrock a party to the proceedings, which did not occur. As it was, even the due date for payment under the letter of credit was not changed, for interest was paid for late payment: at [57]. 23 The LOI was effective, and CACIB, although in breach of the LOI by reason of late payment, was not defeated by any condition which made time of the essence: at [58]. Issue 2: Was there a breach of the Warranty? 24 The words “marketable title” had to be given their own effect. According to existing jurisprudence, a “marketable title” is one that may at all times and under all circumstances be forced on an unwilling buyer, which is contrasted with a title which will expose the buyer to “litigation or hazard”: at [60]. 25 The court rejected CACIB’s submission that the Warranty was broken both because Zenrock always intended title to pass to TOTSA under a genuine sale and not to Shandong on the round-tripping chain under a fraudulent sale; and PPT’s title was not free from litigation or hazard. Although the round-tripping chain was inserted into an existing chain, the result was ultimately a longer chain. Title passed on shipment, by which time that longer chain had been constructed. Until shipment the goods were unappropriated, and title did not pass until shipment, by which time the two chains had become one, with the fraudulent round-tripping inserted into what ultimately became a longer chain: at [61] and [62]. 26 However, the court was not persuaded that the title was marketable for five reasons: at [64]. (a) First, the fact that title passed did not mean that it was a “marketable” title. (b) Second, the fact that breach of a warranty of marketable title may sound only in damages does not mean that it is not a breach. (c) Third, the Sale of Goods Act 1979 (c 54) (UK) (“Sale of Goods Act”), which implies a term that “the goods are free and will remain free until the time when the property is to pass from any charge or encumbrance not disclosed or made known to the buyer before the contract was made” says nothing about the warranty of marketable title. (d) Fourth, the implied term in s 12 of the Sale of Goods Act is a term implied in a contract for the sale of goods, whereas the present case concerned an express term in a letter of indemnity given in the absence of a bill of lading, a document of title.(e) Fifth, a title subject to litigation and hazard may in due course be vindicated as a good title, but only after actual litigation and hazard. 27 There was a breach of the Warranty in that PPT lacked marketable title. Zenrock was not a seller acting in the ordinary course of business, and PPT was not a bona fide purchaser for value. The Judge had accepted that neither Shandong nor PPT were bona fide purchasers for value, as no payment was made by Shandong or PPT until 16 April 2020, whereas the question in issue related to title as of shipment on 6 April 2020. PPT was also aware of the round-tripping and of Zenrock’s position as both seller and buyer. The court agreed with the Judge that although PPT could not be said to be a participant in Zenrock’s fraud, PPT could hardly be said to be an innocent bystander. From these circumstances alone, there were well-founded concerns about the marketability of the title held by PPT: at [65], [66], [67] and [69].Issue 3: If there was a breach of the Warranty, what damages were incurred? 28 PPT opposed CACIB’s alternative claim that CACIB should be put in the same position as it would have been if either the “warranties had been true” or the original bills had been presented, on the basis that this was not pleaded. However, the fact that the alternative counterfactual that there would have been no fraud was not pleaded did not serve to eliminate the point, since it was entirely one of law: at [70], [72] and [73]. 29 In its written case, CACIB claimed as its loss the difference between the sum paid under the letter of credit, US$23,662,732.50 and the recovery it made in the interpleader proceedings. However, this was not correct, as CACIB cannot claim under either the LOI or the letter of credit for loss which it would only have avoided if it had not entered into those documents at all: at [74].  30 CACIB was entitled to claim US$10,319,470.81, which was the net difference between the price payable by TOTSA to Zenrock and caught by the interpleader proceedings, namely US$16,517,532.06, and the recovery of US$6,197,532.75 achieved by CACIB in the settlement of those proceedings. CACIB was entitled to claim under the LOI loss which it would have avoided if it had unquestionable security over the receivable payable by TOTSA to which it was entitled under the LOI, and which it would have had in the absence of fraud, in return for making payment under the letter of credit: at [74]. Issue 4: What is the quantum of the loss under the Indemnity for failure to produce the bills of lading? 31 The court upheld the Judge’s findings that, as a matter of causation, there would have been no loss to be indemnified, because if the bills of lading had been produced, rather than replaced by the LOI, CACIB would have acted in the same way as it had done in fact. Moreover, if the bills had been available, CACIB would have seen from the endorsements on those bills and understood that a fraud had been committed, with Zenrock selling the goods twice under different credits. Where fraud had thus been confirmed, rather than merely suspected, it was less likely that CACIB would have taken up the documents and paid out under the letter of credit: at [75] and [77].  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
