
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 September 2021Case summaryRafael Voltaire Alzate v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 224Magistrate’s Appeal No 9001 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Sundaresh Menon CJ:Outcome: SGHC dismisses the appeal, finding that there were no special reasons present such that the court should exercise its discretion not to impose a disqualification period.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  To take into account the legislative changes to the Road Traffic Act (Cap 276, 2004 Rev Ed) (“RTA”), the framework laid down in Edwin s/o Suse Nathen v Public Prosecutor [2013] 4 SLR 1139 would have to be modified accordingly. The Court therefore set out a modified framework to be applied in relation to offences under s 67 of the RTA (at [30]–[31]). Introduction1 This was an appeal by Rafael Voltaire Alzate (“Alzate”) against a disqualification order imposed by a District Judge (the “Judge”). The principal contention was that there were “special reasons” owing to which a disqualification order should not be imposed.Background to the appeal2 Alzate was a former lecturer at ITE College East. On 11 June 2020, he met one of his former students in order to counsel him on the management of the business. The former student appreciated Alzate’s kindness and brought him some whiskey as a gesture of gratitude. They started drinking at about 9 pm and stopped at about 1 am on 12 June 2020. Alzate apparently imbibed about three or four glasses of whiskey.3 After the meeting, Alzate attempted to ride his motorcycle home. In his state of intoxication, he managed to start his motorcycle and to ride it a short distance within the carpark but he failed to reach the exit. The CCTV footage showed that he lost his balance and fell to the ground together with his motorcycle; he was then unable to lift his motorcycle up and so could not proceed.4 Alzate was eventually arrested and escorted to the police station for a Breath Analyzing Device (“BAD”) test. The BAD test revealed that Alzate’s breath contained 62 microgrammes of alcohol in every 100 millilitres of breath. 5 Accordingly, he was charged for drink driving under s 67(1)(b) read with s 67(2)(a) of the Road Traffic Act (Cap 276, 2004 Rev Ed) (“RTA”). Alzate pleaded guilty to the charge and the District Judge sentenced him to a fine of $4,000 and a disqualification period of 30 months. Dissatisfied with the imposition of the disqualification order, Alzate filed a notice of appeal on the same day. Alzate paid the fine and the District Judge granted a stay of execution on the disqualification order pending the outcome of the appeal.The decision of the CourtThe legislative changes to the RTA and the appropriate framework6 The reforms to the RTA introduced through the Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2019 (Act 27 of 2019) were aimed at providing stronger deterrence against irresponsible driving and to tighten the regulatory regime against irresponsible driving: at [26]. 7 In keeping with Parliament’s intention, s 67 of the RTA was also amended. Specifically, the penalties for an offence under s 67(1)(b) have been increased significantly following the 2019 statutory amendments, reflecting Parliament’s view that there is a need for even greater deterrence against drink driving. Following the amendment, s 67(1)(b) now provides that a first offender would be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than $2000 and not more than $10,000, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both. Section 67(2) provides for a disqualification period of two years. In short, the entire range of the sentencing options was doubled following the amendments: at [29].8 To take into account these changes, the framework laid down in Edwin s/o Suse Nathen v Public Prosecutor [2013] 4 SLR 1139 would have to be modified accordingly. The Court, generally agreeing with the Prosecution’s proposals, laid down the following framework to be applied in relation to offences under s 67 of the RTA (at [30]–[31]):Level of alcohol (μg per 100ml of breath)Range of finesRange of disqualification36–54$2000–$400024–30 months55–69$4000–$600030–36 months70–89$6000–$800036–48 months≥ 90 $8000–$1000048–60 months (or longer)9 Two further points were also noted. First, the framework was only applicable where no harm to person or property has been caused: at [32]. Second, the framework only provides neutral starting points considering only the level of alcohol in the offender’s body. Regard should still be had to any aggravating or mitigating circumstances. Where such aggravating circumstances exist, it could result in the custodial threshold being crossed. In the same vein, the presumptive range of the period of disqualification to be imposed under the last band should be 48 to 60 months given that the period of 60 months is the statutorily prescribed minimum disqualification period for a repeat offender; this, however, may be exceeded should the circumstances warrant it: at [33].10 On the facts, it was evident that Alzate lost his balance while riding, fell to the ground and was then unable to lift the motorcycle up. That was what put an end to any further question of his riding the motorcycle that night. The objective evidence therefore showed that it was not the case that Alzate had a change of heart and wanted to stop riding: at [35]. That Alzate only rode a short distance and did not endanger other road users simply cannot constitute a “special reason”; the only reason this transpired as it did was because Alzate had been too drunk to ride any further. This was fortuitous and does nothing to limit his culpability: at [36].11 There was no basis at all for the court not to impose the presumptive disqualification order. If anything the Judge had been lenient and both the fine and duration of the disqualification period could have been higher based on the applicable framework: at [36].Special reasons12 Under s 67(2) of the RTA, the Court retains the discretion not to order a period of disqualification if “special reasons” exist: at [37]. This discretion that is vested in the courts may be exercised where there are special extenuating or pressing circumstances that somehow mitigate the commission of the offence, and would not extend to circumstances that pertain to the person or character of the offender: at [38].13 Even if “special reasons” have been established, the court must nonetheless go on to consider whether it should exercise its discretion. a. The Court considered the following factors to be useful in determining whether special reasons exist: (a) how far the vehicle was driven; (b) the manner in which the vehicle was driven; (c) the state of the vehicle; (d) whether the driver intended to drive any further; (e) the road and traffic conditions prevailing at the time; (f) whether there was any possibility of danger by contact with other road users; and (g) the reason for the vehicle being driven: at [39]. b. The Court also clarified that there was no general rule that a court can never have regard to the distance travelled. This should still be considered as part of an overall analysis. It would be relevant for instance, where an accused may have had a plausible and cogent reason for driving while under the influence, but had driven further than could reasonably be considered to be necessary; that would strongly weigh against the court exercising its discretion not to impose a disqualification order against the offender: at [40]–[42].Conclusion14 The Court therefore held that there were no “special reasons” such that it should not impose an order of disqualification. The length of the disqualification order that was imposed by the Judge was, if anything, on the lenient side. The appeal was dismissed: [43]–[44].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
