
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 September 2021Case summarySingapore International Commercial Court Suit No 7 of 2020DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Kiri Industries Ltd and another [2021] SGHC(I) 12---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Anselmo Reyes IJ Outcome: SICC dismisses Kiri Industries Ltd’s counterclaim against DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd. Background factsDyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”) is a joint venture between the first defendant (“Kiri”) in SIC/S 7/2020 (“SIC 7”), Senda International Capital Limited (“Senda”) and Well Prospering Limited (“WPL”). Kiri held 2,623,354 shares (about 37.57%) on the one hand, and Senda and WPL held 4,359,520 shares (about 62.43%) and one share, respectively, on the other. The terms regulating the parties’ joint venture in DyStar were found in the Share Subscription and Shareholders Agreement (“SSSA”) dated 31 January 2010. Besides DyStar, there was also another joint venture in India between Kiri and WPL called Lonsen-Kiri Chemical Industries Limited (“Lonsen-Kiri”) in which Kiri held 40% and WPL 60% of the shares.Senda and WPL are wholly owned by Zhejiang Longsheng Group Co Ltd (“Longsheng”).  Longsheng, like Kiri, is in the business of dye chemicals.  Senda acted on Longsheng’s instructions. The present action, SIC 7, was part of a series of actions involving DyStar and Kiri before the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”). In SIC/S 3/2017 (“SIC 3”) DyStar alleged (among other matters) that Kiri: (a) had breached Clause 15.1(a) (a non-compete term), Clause 15.1(b) (a non-solicitation term) and Clause 17 (a confidentiality term) of the SSSA;(b) had conspired against DyStar; and (c) owed €1.7 million in process technology development fees and S$443,813 in audit costs to DyStar.In SIC/S 4/2017 (“SIC 4”), Kiri alleged that, through Senda as majority shareholder in DyStar, Longsheng had engaged in acts which were oppressive of Kiri’s interest as minority shareholder in DyStar. DyStar was joined as a party to SIC 4 to be bound by the SICC’s findings in that action. SIC 3 and SIC 4 were consolidated and heard together.In SIC 3 the SICC dismissed most of DyStar’s allegations but held that Kiri had breached Clauses 15.1(a) and (b) in connection with one customer: see DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Kiri Industries and others and another suit [2018] 5 SLR 1. On appeal, the Court of Appeal held that Kiri had also breached Clauses 15.1(a) and (b) in respect of two other customers.In SIC 4 the SICC found that Longsheng had acted oppressively and ordered that Senda buy out Kiri’s minority interest at a valuation to be assessed. The SICC directed that the valuation be as at the date of its judgment (3 July 2018).  Senda’s appeal against the buy-out order was dismissed.  On 15 June 2021, after further court hearings (including another appeal), the SICC determined that for the purposes of its buy-out order Kiri’s shares should be valued at US$481.6 million as at 3 July 2018: see Kiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another [2021] SGHC(I) 6. The valuation is under appeal.  In the present case, DyStar claimed against Kiri for further breaches of Clauses 15.1(a) and (b) of the SSSA. Kiri responded with a counterclaim (the “Counterclaim”).  DyStar’s claim was later settled between the parties, leaving only the Counterclaim to be heard.In the Counterclaim, Kiri alleged that DyStar had breached Clause 7.2 of the SSSA (“Clause 7.2”). The second defendant in SIC 7, Mr Manishkumar Pravinchandra Kiri (“Mr Kiri”) was not involved in the Counterclaim. Clause 7.2 stipulates:“... [DyStar] shall procure that Zhejiang Longsheng Group Co, Ltd and its Affiliates and [Kiri] shall be the preferred suppliers of all goods and services in connection with textile chemicals, dyestuffs and dyes to the DyStar companies and business that form part of the DyStar Assets.”In the Counterclaim, Kiri contrasted the position in 2010 and 2011 with that from 2012 onwards.  Kiri argued that in 2010 and 2011, DyStar complied with Clause 7.2 by showing preferential treatment to Kiri. But, from 2012, Kiri alleged that, contrary to Clause 7.2, DyStar had stopped showing preferential treatment, by amongst other things steadily reducing its purchases of dyes, raw materials and intermediates from Kiri. Accordingly, the Counterclaim sought damages from DyStar for the breach of Clause 7.2.  DyStar made several arguments in response. First, the Counterclaim was barred by issue estoppel. Second, the Counterclaim constituted an abuse of process under the extended doctrine of res judicata. Third, Clause 7.2 was merely “aspirational”.  It did not give rise to any contractual obligation. Fourth, even if Clause 7.2 was enforceable, DyStar was justified in reducing its purchases from Kiri and did not breach Clause 7.2.  Finally, Kiri was entitled to no damages or at best purely nominal damages.The Court’s decision The Counterclaim was not barred by issue estoppel. While a breach of Clause 7.2 had been raised in SIC 4, the judgment in SIC 4 could not be characterised as “a declaration or determination of a party’s liability and/or his rights or obligations leaving nothing else to be judicially determined” (Goh Nellie v Goh Lian Teck and others [2007] 1 SLR(R) 453 at [28]).  The SICC concluded in SIC 4 that the evidence of a breach of Clause 7.2 was inconclusive.  The SICC left the question of whether there had been a breach of Clause 7.2 open. It was unnecessary to go further. Given the indeterminate nature of the evidence adduced on the incidental question (whether there had been a breach by DyStar of Clause 7.2), the main question (whether Senda had caused DyStar to breach Clause 7.2) simply fell away. There was consequently no res judicata in SIC 4 on the issue whether Clause 7.2 had been breached (at [11]).The Counterclaim was not an abuse of process under extended res judicata. The alleged breach of Clause 7.2 was a different question from the breach of the SSSA’s non-compete, non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses relied on by DyStar in SIC 3. There was accordingly no obligation on Kiri to raise the breach of Clause 7.2 as a counterclaim in SIC 3. It was true that Kiri had alleged the breach of Clause 7.2 in SIC 4. But that was merely as an ancillary issue to establishing oppressive conduct on Senda’s part.  SIC 4 left the question of the breach of Clause 7.2 unresolved, so there could not have been a res judicata on that matter. It remained open to Kiri to sue DyStar in India (as it did) for the breach of Clause 7.2. When DyStar started SIC 7 in Singapore, Kiri withdrew the Indian proceedings and pursued the Counterclaim in Singapore instead. While Kiri might be faulted for not withdrawing its Indian action earlier, that was a matter which could have been (and had been) dealt with through an appropriate costs order of the Indian court. In those premises, the bringing of the Counterclaim could hardly be characterised as “harassment” or as “manifestly unfair” to DyStar and as “bringing the administration of justice into disrepute” (at [16]).Clause 7.2 gave rise to an enforceable obligation. In its natural and ordinary meaning the words “shall procure” in Clause 7.2 imposed a positive obligation on DyStar to bring about an outcome, namely, that Longsheng (and its affiliates) and DyStar are treated as “preferred suppliers of all goods and services in connection with textile chemicals, dyestuffs and dyes”.  This did not mean (and Kiri did not contend) that DyStar should place the interests of Longsheng (and its affiliates and DyStar) above its own. DyStar would enjoy a wide discretion in its purchasing decisions under Clause 7.2 in light of geographical, commercial, and practical considerations. For example, obviously, where Longsheng’s or Kiri’s prices were uncompetitive, DyStar would be free to purchase from other suppliers. The mere fact that there were many ways of preferring a supplier did not render the obligation under Clause 7.2 so vague and uncertain as to be unworkable (at [21] and [22]).There was no breach of Clause 7.2. The SICC separately considered the alleged breaches as regards (a) raw materials and intermediates and (b) finished dyes (at [24]).Clause 7.2 did not require DyStar to treat Kiri as a preferred supplier of raw materials and intermediates not produced by Kiri. If Kiri was not producing the relevant raw materials or intermediates, it would have had to source them from third parties and offer the goods to DyStar at a mark-up. On those premises, it would not have been reasonable to expect DyStar to obtain the goods through Kiri as middleman. It would have been more conducive to DyStar’s commercial and practical interests to obtain the materials directly from Kiri’s suppliers. Clause 7.2 allowed a margin of discretion to DyStar to act reasonably in its commercial interest.  While, in 2010 and 2011, DyStar had submitted open orders for raw materials and intermediates to Kiri, DyStar may well have acted in a manner that went beyond what Clause 7.2 required (at [29]).There was also another difficulty with Kiri’s case on raw materials and intermediates. Kiri suggested that the production from DyStar’s plants in Brunsbüttel, Leverkusen and Cilegon was transferred to DyStar’s other plants in Gabus, Omuta and Ankleshwar. Kiri reasoned that it could have fulfilled the needs of those other plants and in any event should have been afforded with the opportunity to do so. Kiri based this allegation on a production transfer schedule issued in July 2010. - Mr Peter Euschen (“Mr Euschen”) (now DyStar’s Global Head of Engineering & HSE [Health, Safety & Environment]) gave compelling evidence that explained that the production transfer schedule was an early version which “simply sets out a schedule for the transfer of production from the Brunsbüttel and Leverkusen plants to other plants such as Nanjing, Omuta, Gabus, and so forth”.  Mr Euschen was an appropriate person to give evidence on this issue as he was one of the authors of the production transfer schedule and was personally involved in the transfer of know-how from DyStar’s German plants from 2010 to August 2013 (at [27], [30]–[32]).- As for Cilegon, at a meeting on 28 and 29 July 2010, DyStar’s board decided that Cilegon should be closed as soon as possible, and its production of reactive dyes should be transferred to Lonsen-Kiri.  The thinking was to transfer production from high-cost sites in Germany (Brunsbüttel and Leverkusen) and Indonesia (Cilegon) into one low-cost site at Lonsen-Kiri for economies of scale and thereby maximise savings (at [33]).There was also no breach of Clause 7.2 as regards the use of raw materials and intermediates at DyStar’s plants in Wuxi, Nanjing, Ankleshwar, Gabus and Omuta. The SICC accepted the evidence of Ms Vera Huang (“Ms Huang”) (DyStar’s head of global procurement) in this regard; Ms Huang’s evidence was supported by evidence in the form of DyStar’s SAP [System Application and Product in Processing] platform (“SAP”). The evidence showed, among other things, that Kiri did not produce the raw materials which DyStar’s various plants purchased from other suppliers during the relevant period (at [34]–[39]).There was no breach of Clause 7.2 in respect of finished dyes. The SICC was persuaded by DyStar’s arguments on Kiri’s lack of reliability as a supplier of such dyes. As a result of Kiri’s lack of dependability, DyStar saw a need in 2012 to develop alternative dye sources to Kiri. This was necessary to safeguard DyStar’s supply of its products to customers on a timely basis and at an acceptable price and quality. The need for alternative sources arose from Kiri’s high prices at the time and Kiri’s inability to provide a reliable supply of dyes in the nine months from January to September 2012. Even after these events, Kiri had been given a further opportunity by DyStar, in December 2012, to supply reactive dyes. Unfortunately, Kiri’s execution of that order was far from smooth (at [62]–[66]).While there was evidence that Kiri’s capability as a supplier had improved in the years following 2013, specifically between March 2014 and December 2015 and thereafter, this potential aspect of Clause 7.2 was neither pleaded nor was it explored at trial. In particular, it was never put to any of DyStar’s witnesses that, however commercially justified DyStar may have been in acting as it did in 2013, over the next few years, DyStar failed: (a) to check whether Kiri’s ability to supply finished dyes at competitive prices had improved and (b) (to the extent there was a change for the better) to resume regular (as opposed to sporadic) dealing with Kiri as a supplier. The SICC was therefore unable to conclude that DyStar’s decision to stop placing orders with Kiri from 2013 ought to have been reviewed and (possibly) rescinded at a later stage (at [67]).Kiri relied on DyStar’s treatment of Lonsen-Kiri and a supplier known as Colourtex in support of its argument that a nine-month disruption in supply could not be a valid reason for ceasing to place orders.  However, the situations of Lonsen-Kiri and Colourtex were distinguishable. - Colourtex was a major supplier of DyStar, and DyStar’s commercial considerations in dealing with Colourtex were different from those with Kiri. Accordingly, it did not follow that by reason of Clause 7.2, DyStar was obliged to give Kiri a price increase merely because it was forced to agree one with Colourtex (at [68]).- There was also no breach as regards Lonsen-Kiri’s supply of Reactive Turquoise Blue dye (“RTB”) to DyStar. Kiri had provided DyStar with defective samples of RTB. The test results for both sets of Kiri’s RTB samples did not come close to meeting DyStar’s benchmarks. While Kiri alleged that DyStar ought to have provided it with a standard sample of the dye to demonstrate the standards DyStar expected, Clause 7.2 did not expressly or impliedly oblige DyStar to provide Kiri with standard samples. It may well have been that, from time-to-time, DyStar as a matter of goodwill provided such samples to Kiri. But it could not be inferred from that alone that Clause 7.2 was to be construed as requiring that DyStar consistently provide standard samples whenever asked to do so by Kiri, contrary to DyStar’s usual practice. DyStar had valid reasons for such usual practice of not providing standard samples. There was a risk of competitors copying or reverse engineering DyStar’s dyes (at [69]–[71]).It followed from the conclusion that there was no breach of Clause 7.2 and that Kiri would not be entitled to recover damages from DyStar. For completeness, the SICC made observations on Kiri claims for damages in the event that the SICC was wrong on the issue of breach. Assuming there was a breach, the SICC was prepared to accept that Kiri’s pleaded breach of Clause 7.2 should be characterised as a continuous breach which went beyond 27 December 2013 and potentially carried on to the present. This was subject to two caveats. First, the decision in SIC 4 supposed a clean break between Kiri and Senda as joint venture partners from 3 July 2018.  The joint venture between Kiri and Senda must be presumed to have ended on 3 July 2018 with Senda buying out Kiri’s interest in DyStar on that date.  Clause 7.2 would therefore cease to apply from 3 July 2018. Second, the SICC rejected Kiri’s argument that, to deal with any concerns arising from the buy-out order in SIC 4, the court could apply a discount of 37.57% (representing Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar) to Kiri’s calculation of damages from 27 December 2013 to 3 July 2018.  The consequence of Clause 7.2 ceasing to bite from 3 July 2018 was that Kiri’s claim for damages should be limited to that date. Kiri should therefore only be entitled to damages for the period from 27 December 2013 to 3 July 2018 (at [74]–[77]).With the aforementioned caveats, and based on the evidence available, if Kiri succeeded in proving breaches of Clause 7.2, it would be entitled to the following damages:- Damages for some 50% of the reactive dyes which the DyStar had purchased from Lonsen-Kiri, which Kiri could have sold to DyStar had it been given the opportunity, save for Levafix dyes which Kiri does not produce. A 40% discount (representing Kiri’s shareholding in Lonsen-Kiri) would be applied. Any entitlement to damages on Kiri’s part should be limited to the period from 27 December 2013 to 3 July 2018 (at [78]).- Damages for a certain proportion of the reactive dyes which DyStar purchased from other suppliers, which Kiri could have provided DyStar had it been given the opportunity (abbreviated as the “2nd reactive dye category” in the judgment). Kiri’s margin for the 2nd reactive dye category should be 15.5% and damages should be confined to the period from 27 December 2013 to 3 July 2018 (at [79]).- Damages for direct dyes. Kiri’s gross profit margin should be 15.5% and the period for damages should only be from 27 December 2013 to 3 July 2018 (at [80]).- Kiri would get no damages for raw materials and intermediates, for the reasons indicated above in respect of Brunsbüttel, Leverkusen, Cilegon, Wuxi, Nanjing, Ankleshwar, Gabus and Omuta. In any event, the period for any damages should only be from 27 December 2013 to 3 July 2018 (at [81]).Kiri also sought pre-judgment interest on any damages awarded. The SICC would have refused such interest on the ground of Kiri’s delay in bringing the Counterclaim. Kiri could have (but did not) bring its action in 2015 when it commenced SIC 4 or as a counterclaim against DyStar in SIC 3 (at [82]).As to the incidence of costs, DyStar having substantially prevailed on the Counterclaim, it should have its costs of the same. While DyStar did not succeed on every issue, the issues were intertwined, especially as to the proper construction of Clause 7.2. The present case hence did not seem to be an appropriate case for apportioning costs among the different issues (at [83]).The parties agreed on the approach to the quantum of costs. For costs incurred prior to the transfer of SIC 7 to the SICC (“pre-transfer costs”), there should be an uplift from the scale in Appendix G to the Supreme Court Practice Directions (“Appendix G”), due to the complexity of SIC 7. As for costs incurred after SIC 7 had been transferred to the SICC (“post-transfer costs”), Appendix G would not be an appropriate measure. Instead, parties should be awarded reasonable costs, as per O 110 r 46 of the Rules of Court  (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed). Using these approaches, and based on parties’ submissions, the SICC awarded (a) S$38,000 in pre-transfer costs to DyStar; and (b) S$1,024,000 in post-transfer costs to DyStar. Disbursements of S$75,856.41 were awarded to DyStar, such sum being a reasonable amount sought. The total costs awarded to DyStar added up to S$1,137,856.41 (all-in) (at [85]–[89]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
