
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE23 September 2021Case summaryImran bin Mohd Arip v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2021] SGCA 91 Criminal Appeal No 22 and 24 f 2019 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA orders joint retrial of capital charges  Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal ordered a joint retrial for two accused persons.•  The Court of Appeal provided guidance on the alteration of capital charges on appeal. •  The Court of Appeal provided guidance on the courses of action open to an appellate court which takes the view that it would be appropriate to frame an altered charge which carries the death penalty against an accused, in circumstances where the original charge already carries the death penalty. 1 This was a sequel to the Court of Appeal’s decision in Imran bin Mohd Arip v Public Prosecutor and other appeals [2020] SGCA 120 (“CA Judgment”) in which one of three co-accused persons, Pragas Krissamy (“Pragas”), was acquitted of a capital charge under the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). This sequel concerned the appellant in CA/CCA 22/2019 (“CCA 22”), Imran bin Mohd Arip (“Imran”), and the appellant in CA/CCA 24/2019 (“CCA 24”), Tamilselvam a/l Yagasvranan (“Tamil”): at [1].2 As a result of Pragas’s acquittal; the findings in the CA Judgment against Imran and Tamil; the fact that the charge against Imran refers to a conspiracy between Tamil and Pragas; and the fact that the charge against Tamil refers to a shared common intention with Pragas, it became necessary to consider the appropriate amendments that should be made to Imran’s and Tamil’s charges (“the Amendment Query”): at [2].Facts and background 3 On 8 February 2017, at about 7.05am, Tamil and Pragas entered the carpark of Block 518A Jurong West St 52, after parking their motorcycle at the motorcycle lots behind Block 517 Jurong West St 52. Tamil and Pragas walked towards Block 518 Jurong West St 52 (“Block 518”), with Pragas carrying a black haversack. When they arrived at Blk 518, Tamil took the lift up (without Pragas): at [5].4 At about 7.09am, Tamil came out of the lift on the fourth floor of Block 518 and met Imran who came out of #04-139 of Block 518 (“the Unit”). Tamil then called Pragas, who answered with a handphone that Tamil had passed to him prior to entering into the lift. Pragas then walked up the staircase to the fourth floor of Block 518: at [6].5 Pragas met Imran, opened his black haversack, and took out a white plastic bag which he handed over to Imran. Pragas and Tamil then walked down the staircase of the block and headed back to their parked motorcycles where they were arrested by officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”): at [7].  6 The CNB officers seized $6,700 from Tamil, amongst other things. After searches of the Unit, they also seized a white plastic bag (marked “D1”) and a black plastic bag containing two bundles which in turn each contained a packet of granular/powdery substance. The two packets collectively contained 894.2g of granular/powdery substance which was analysed and found to collectively contain not less than 19.42g of diamorphine (“the Drugs”): at [8]. 7 Imran was charged under s 5(1)(a) read with s 12 of the MDA for abetment by conspiracy with Pragas and Tamil to traffic the Drugs. Pragas and Tamil were charged under s 5(1)(a) of the MDA read with s 34 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) for delivering the Drugs. After a joint trial before the High Court judge (“the Judge”), all three co-accused persons were convicted of their capital charges: at [9]. 8 On 18 December 2020, the CA Judgment was released, allowing Pragas’s appeal and acquitting him. Numerous findings were also made in relation to Imran and Tamil: at [10]. 9 After the release of the CA Judgment, the parties were invited to tender submissions on the Amendment Query. In particular, Eugene Thuraisingam LLP (“ET LLP”) who was acting for Tamil made two requests for extensions of time to file its submissions in respect of the Amendment Query. In total, it was granted an extension of time of six weeks. When ET LLP eventually filed its submissions, these contained grave allegations (“the Allegations”) against Tamil’s counsel at the original trial before the Judge (“the Original Counsel”): at [14]–[16]. The court’s ground of decision10 The two issues before the Court of Appeal were (at [31]):a. Should an altered charge be framed as against Imran and Tamil under s 390(4) (“Issue 1”)? b. If Issue 1 is answered in the affirmative, what is the scope of the court’s powers in respect of the altered capital charges against Imran and Tamil and what would be the appropriate course of action on the facts of CCA 22 and CCA 24 (“Issue 2”)? Issue 1: Alteration of charges under s 390(4) 11 The Court of Appeal held that an altered charge ought to be framed against Tamil and endorsed the amended charge labelled “Option A” as proposed by the Prosecution as this involved only the excision of the common intention element of Tamil’s charge and did not introduce any new legal elements: at [32]. 12 Section 390(4) of the CPC provides that an appellate court may frame an altered charge against an accused on appeal without qualification as to the type of charge, if satisfied that, based on the records before the court, there is sufficient evidence to constitute a case which the accused has to answer. The exercise of such a power must be exercised sparingly, subject to careful observance of the safeguards against prejudice to the defence, which must be rigorously observed. The court must be satisfied that the proceedings below would have taken the same course, and the evidence led would have been the same had the amended charge been presented at the trial. The primary consideration is that the amendment will not cause any injustice, or affect the presentation of the evidence, in particular, the accused’s defence: at [30]. 13 The requirement of evidential sufficiency was clearly established in the light of the findings made against Tamil in the CA Judgment: at [34]. 14 Further, the alteration of Tamil’s charge in the form of Option A would not flout the careful safeguards in the law against prejudice to the defence: at [38]. 15 The Court of Appeal rejected the argument that if the preferred charge against Tamil had not been one of common intention, Tamil would have run his defence in accordance with his statements to the police and would not have aligned his defence with Pragas (respectively, the “Intended Defence” and the “Original Defence”). This was because the Court of Appeal was satisfied that the proceedings below would have taken the same course and the evidence led would have been largely the same even if Tamil had been faced with the altered charge under Option A at first instance. This was, in turn, for two reasons: at [39] and [40]. 16 Firstly, the case that Tamil will have to meet under Option A would be the same as the case that he had to meet under his original charge. The Prosecution had expressly confirmed that its case against Tamil would be the same in respect of the amendments to Tamil’s charge that it had proposed. Further, the nature of the evidence adduced by the Prosecution in respect of Option A would likely be the same. The statements from Imran which incriminated Tamil in the drug transaction remained strong evidence against Tamil. Tamil would also have to provide a satisfactory explanation for why the sum of $6,700 was found on him. This sum represented the market price for two pounds of heroin at the time of the offence. The Court of Appeal noted that such an explanation did indeed form a key part of the Intended Defence: at [11(b)], [13(c)] and [41]–[42].17 Secondly, the Intended Defence and Original Defence were materially similar. Both went towards explaining one central point – ie, the reason for Tamil’s presence at the site of the drug transaction on the very day on which the transaction occurred. The Intended Defence is that Tamil was present to “borrow a sum of S$6,700 from Imran” (ie, in accordance with Tamil’s own statements to the police). The Original Defence is that Tamil was present to “obtain a loan from Imran to purchase a stock of cigarettes” and to deliver two cartons of cigarettes to Imran (ie, in accordance with Pragas’s version of events). The Intended Defence would re-advance a single prong of the double-pronged Original Defence that had been advanced before and rejected by the Judge at the trial below. The two defences were therefore essentially similar: at [43]– [44]. 18 The Court of Appeal also rejected the argument that Tamil’s charge should not be altered because any retrial in respect of an altered charge would be unfairly prejudicial to Tamil such that he should be acquitted of his current charge. It was speculative to say that because Tamil planned to run his new defence in accordance with his statements (ie, the Intended Defence) as opposed to Pragas’s account (ie, the Original Defence), the difference in his positions in the retrial would cause his credibility to be severely undermined, such that a fair trial is “near impossible”. It was not possible to predict at this point how a judge will treat the evidence being placed before the court during a retrial. The circumstances surrounding Imran’s and Tamil’s charges have changed and any retrial will rest on a new foundation, not least because their co-accused has been acquitted of his charge. The further argument that Tamil would face difficulties locating a material witness, one Prakash, was also rejected as it was pure speculation. It appeared that efforts had not been made to even contact Prakash: at [39] and [51]–[53].19 The Court of Appeal was of the similar opinion that there was sufficient evidence to constitute a case against Imran in relation to the altered charge as proposed by the Prosecution. Furthermore, Imran did not object to the Prosecution’s proposed amendments nor raise any claim to prejudice: at [55]. 20 The Court of Appeal made clear that the Allegations were not relevant to the disposal of the Amendment Query. These allegations, even taken to be true, did not demonstrate that prejudice would be caused to the conduct of Tamil’s defence in respect of an altered charge in terms of the presentation of the evidence, or the complexion of the Intended Defence itself. Rather, the Allegations went towards explaining why a different defence would be adopted if an alternate charge were framed. The Court of Appeal reiterated that the questions before it concerned only the consequential orders to be made in respect of Imran and Tamil given the nature of their common intention and conspiracy charges and the acquittal of their co-accused, Pragas. In any event, as the Court of Appeal had made clear to Mr Eugene Singarajah Thuraisingam, lead counsel for Tamil, the appellate court is not the appropriate forum for investigating and making findings of fact or credibility in relation to new claims or allegations. Mr Thuraisingam eventually accepted that if Tamil wished to pursue the Allegations, the appropriate course would be to lodge an appropriate complaint against the Original Counsel: at [49]–[50]. Issue 2: The court’s powers in respect of altered charges under s 390(7)(b) of the CPC 21 Section 390(7) of the CPC lays out the various options in respect of altered charges generally: (a) to order a retrial pursuant to s 390(7)(a); or (b) to convict the accused on the altered charge pursuant to s 390(7)(b). The words “other than a charge which carries the death penalty” however, creates a distinction between capital charges and non-capital charges and raises the question of whether a court has the power pursuant to s 390(7)(b) to convict an accused of an altered capital charge: at [60]. 22 The applicable framework for statutory interpretation is set out in Tan Cheng Bock v Attorney-General [2017] 2 SLR 850 (“Tan Cheng Bock”). First, ascertain the possible interpretations of the provision, having regard not just to the text of the provision but also to the context of that provision within the written law as a whole. Second, ascertain the legislative purpose or object of the statute. Third, compare the possible interpretations of the text against the purposes or objects of the statute: at [70]. 23 Having regard to the plain and ordinary meaning of the provision, particularly the words in parentheses, one interpretation is that an appellate court may only convict the accused on the altered charge after hearing the submissions of parties if the altered charge does not carry the death penalty. In other words, the court cannot avail itself of s 390(7)(b) of the CPC if the altered charge carries the death penalty, regardless of whether the original charge also carried the death penalty and regardless of the nature of the amendment. This was termed “Interpretation 1”: at [72]. 24 Having regard to the context of s 390(7) within s 390 of the CPC as a whole, another interpretation is that the word “altered” does not specifically refer to any alteration to the original charge. Rather, it referred specifically to a situation involving an alteration in the nature of the penalty which causes the original non-capital charge to morph into a capital charge. On this interpretation, if both the old and the new charge carry the death penalty, there is no alteration in the nature of the penalty and thus an appellate court may still avail itself of s 390(7)(b) to convict the accused on the altered capital charge. This was termed “Interpretation 2”: at [73].25 The legislative purpose and object of s 390(7)(b) could be gleaned from external and internal sources. Section 390 was introduced into the corpus of Singapore law through the Criminal Procedure Code Bill No. 11/2010 (“CPC 2010 Bill”). Two points could be gleaned from the parliamentary debates for the CPC 2010 bill. First, Parliament was greatly concerned with the notion of providing safeguards when altered charges are framed by an appellate court. Second, s 390 was a codification of case law as decided by the Court of Criminal Appeal in Lee Ngin Kiat v Public Prosecutor [1993] 1 SLR(R) 695 (“Lee Ngin Kiat”): at [78]–[80]. 26 In Lee Ngin Kiat, the Court of Criminal Appeal amended the capital charge to another capital charge and convicted the appellant on the amended charge, and sentenced him to death. Given that s 390 was a codification of case law as decided by the Court of Criminal Appeal in Lee Ngin Kiat, it would be incongruous to suggest that because of the words in parenthesis in s 390(7)(b), the court cannot now do the very thing it was permitted to do in Lee Ngin Kiat. The extraneous material suggested that under s 390, the appellate court can alter a capital charge to another capital charge, and convict the accused person on the altered capital charge. Following Lee Ngin Kiat, this should only be done when there is no possibility of prejudice to the accused person or to the Prosecution and would not occasion any injustice: at [83]. 27 The purpose and object of s 390 of the CPC generally and s 390(7)(b) specifically, was: (a) to codify the existing case law on the appellate court’s power to alter charges which could apply in circumstances where both the original and altered charges carry the death penalty; and (b) to enact additional safeguards should an appellate court decide to exercise its power to alter a charge: at [84]. 28 Comparing Interpretations 1 and 2 against the legislative purpose and object of ss 390 and 390(7)(b), Interpretation 2 best furthers Parliament’s intention. It was in line with the statutory language of s 390(7)(b) read in context with s 390(4) and avoided the impractical and absurd result of requiring a retrial in respect of all altered capital charges regardless of the nature of the amendment. Most importantly, it achieved Parliament’s stated objective of codifying the position set out in Lee Ngin Kiat. This, however, must be subject to the caveat that in exercising its powers under s 390(7)(b), an appellate court should not treat an altered capital charge in the same way as an altered non-capital charge: at [85].29 A capital charge carries the ultimate penalty for an accused person and the court’s scrutiny in respect of this must not only be rigorous, but punctilious and searching. If there is a reasonable possibility that the accused may offer a defence that differs or wishes to adduce evidence which was not previously adduced, the court should decline to exercise its power under s 390(7)(b). This was also in line with Parliament’s concerns about providing additional safeguards when a court chooses to alter charges under s 390 as voiced in Parliament by the Minister for Law and expressed in s 390(7)(b) through the words “other than a charge which carries the death penalty”. These words made clear that additional safeguards are necessary when a person’s life is at stake. It would also be consistent with the approach in Lee Ngin Kiat which was expressly endorsed by Parliament: at [86].30 Two courses of action are open to an appellate court if it takes the view that it would be appropriate to frame an altered charge which carries the death penalty in circumstances when the original charge already carries the death penalty (at [87]): a. The first course of action is to order that the accused be tried by a trial court of competent jurisdiction under s 390(7)(b).b. The second course of action is to convict the accused on the altered charge after the accused confirms that his defence case remains the same and his evidence will remain the same as that adduced during a trial of the altered charge. 31 The dicta above should not be taken as a legal carte blanche for accused persons to submit for a complete retrial the moment their capital charges are amended. In cases where the amendments are minor, inconsequential or merely clerical in nature, it is unlikely that a retrial will be ordered: at [88].32 Furthermore, in the interests of finality and to ensure that the second course of action is not abused by accused persons facing capital charges, an accused seeking to avail himself of this course cannot simply assert that his defence or evidence will be different. He ought to be able to lay out the general contours of his “new” defence(s) at a retrial of the altered charge, and explain the qualitative differences between his original defence at the trial and any new intended defence(s) as well as the new evidence necessary to substantiate it and how the new evidence is material or relevant to the amendment to the charge: at [89].Application to the facts 33 Both Imran and Tamil refused to confirm that: (a) their defence will remain the same in respect of their altered charges; and (b) the evidence adduced in respect of their altered charges will remain the same as that adduced in the trial below. Furthermore, in the present case, Tamil had made clear that he intended to offer a new Intended Defence during a retrial (albeit one that shares some common elements with his Original Defence at the trial). He had also provided an explanation as to why he had, in his Original Defence, departed from his police statements at the trial by way of (as yet unproven) Allegations against the Original Counsel which can only be fully explored at a retrial. Proof of the Allegations can only be properly explored at the retrial. Since Imran and Tamil were jointly tried before the Judge, a joint retrial should be ordered for both of them if a retrial was allowed for one. The Court of Appeal therefore exercised its powers under s 390(7)(b) to order a joint retrial of both altered charges before a different judge of the General Division of the High Court. This was a course of action that all parties were in agreement with: at [90]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
