
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE22 September 2021Case summaryMiya Manik v Public Prosecutor and another matter [2021] SGCA 90 Criminal Motions Nos 6 and 23 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA rejects application to adduce further evidence on appeal; application filed by accused’s solicitors was patently unmeritorious and an abuse of process.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Solicitors have a duty to avoid filing unmeritorious applications: Patently unmeritorious applications should be avoided at all costs. A legal practitioner owes a duty to his client to assess the merits of any application appropriately before invoking the court’s processes. He also owes a duty to the court, as well as to the public, to assist in the administration of justice. Filing ill-conceived and hopeless applications are contrary to these duties and impede the smooth conduct of proceedings. These are not novel points, and they have been reiterated in recent decisions of the Court of Appeal. Where solicitors fall afoul of these duties, they may be referred to the Law Society of Singapore for disciplinary action (at [82] and [87]).•  Non-availability of fresh evidence: In the context of criminal appeals, the condition of non-availability is less paramount than the conditions of relevance and reliability. However, non-availability may not be disposed of altogether. Instead, there is a need to adopt a holistic approach, with the requirements of relevance and reliability in clear view, in order to reach a just result (at [32]).•  Relevance of fresh evidence on psychiatric illness: Where an accused person seeks to rely on a psychiatric illness in support of an appeal against sentence, the legal relevance of the illness must be demonstrated. A psychiatric illness may be relevant to sentencing in various ways. First, it may be relevant where it is causally linked to the commission of the offence and therefore reduces the offender’s culpability. Second, in limited circumstances, it may be relevant where the illness is of sufficient severity to warrant the exercise of judicial mercy. Third, an illness may be relevant where by reason of such illness, any sentence has a gravely disproportionate impact on the particular offender (at [45–[47]).•  Reliability of expert evidence: There is a body of case law on the minimum standards expected of experts who tender opinions to court on subjects within their expertise including on the alleged mental illnesses of accused persons. In each of these decisions, the court has emphasised that experts owe a duty to the court to ensure that their evidence is cogent, reliable, and may be gainfully used in the proceedings for which they were prepared. Where one seeks to adduce fresh expert evidence on appeal, these standards must be complied with (at [49]–[56]).Background to the applications1 On 30 September 2016, Mr Miya Manik (“Manik”) was arrested and investigated for causing the death of a man. He was charged with murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”) and alternatively with murder pursuant to a common intention, under s 300(c) read with s 34 of the Penal Code. Manik’s trial commenced on 9 January 2020, which was three years, three months and ten days after he had been arrested. The trial spanned 11 days between 9 January and 27 February 2020. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) who heard the trial reserved judgment.2 On 18 June 2020, the Judge convicted Manik on a substituted charge under s 326 read with s 34 of the Penal Code for voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means pursuant to a common intention (the “Substituted Charge”). The Judge acquitted Manik of murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code, and of murder pursuant to a common intention, under s 300(c) read with s 34 of the Penal Code. Despite these acquittals, the Judge found that there was sufficient evidence for Manik to be convicted of the Substituted Charge. Manik was sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane. On 28 July 2020, Manik filed CA/CCA 26/2020 (“CCA 26”), which appeal was limited to the question of his sentence. His appeal is currently pending.3 On 14 January 2021, Manik filed CA/CM 6/2021 (“CM 6”) seeking to adduce fresh evidence to aid his appeal. The evidence took the form of two medical reports prepared by Dr Ung Eng Khean (“Dr Ung”) who acted in the capacity of a psychiatrist engaged by the Singapore Prisons Service (“Prisons”). The Prosecution objected to Manik’s application, and on 29 June 2021, also filed CA/CM 23/2021 (“CM 23”). In CM 23, the Prosecution sought to adduce medical evidence to address and refute Dr Ung’s reports in the event the court was minded to allow Manik’s application in CM 6.4 The new evidence Manik wished to adduce comprised two reports issued by Dr Ung on 22 September and 22 October 2020 (collectively, “Dr Ung’s Reports”). Each Report was about a page long. The Report dated 22 September 2020 (“Dr Ung’s First Report”) stated that Manik is currently diagnosed as having adjustment disorder and listed six different drugs that Manik had been prescribed by way of treatment. The Report dated 22 October 2020 (“Dr Ung’s Second Report”) stated the symptoms for which the various medications had been prescribed as treatment, and the reasons for the increase in the dosages of some of these medications. In at least two instances, reference was made to a memo prepared by Manik’s doctor in Bangladesh who had prescribed some of these medications while Manik was there. This memo was never produced before the court. Neither Dr Ung’s First Report nor his Second Report stated the diagnostic criteria that had been applied for the diagnosis of adjustment disorder, nor the basis upon which Manik was diagnosed to be suffering from this disorder.5 The Prosecution’s new evidence was responsive to Manik’s. It comprised a psychiatric assessment report prepared by Dr Koh Wun Wu Kenneth Gerard (“Dr Koh”) dated 19 May 2021 (“Dr Koh’s Report”), which stated that Manik does not suffer from adjustment disorder or any other disorder.6 Prior to preparing his Report, and having noted the brevity of Dr Ung’s Reports, Dr Koh had sought clarification from Dr Ung. Dr Ung provided such clarification by way of two further reports dated 31 March and 22 April 2021 (“Dr Ung’s further reports”). However, neither Manik nor the Prosecution applied to introduce Dr Ung’s further reports into evidence.The Court’s grounds of decision in respect of CM 6 and CM 237 It was patently obvious that CM 6 was a hopeless and wholly ill-conceived application. All three requirements in Ladd v Marshall [1954] 1 WLR 1489 (“Ladd v Marshall”) were not satisfied (at [27]).8 First, the condition of non-availability was not satisfied.a. As clarified in Public Prosecutor v Mohd Ariffan bin Mohd Hassan [2018] 1 SLR 544 (“Ariffan”), in the context of criminal appeals, the condition of non-availability was to be regarded as “less paramount” than the other two conditions in Ladd v Marshall, namely relevance and reliability. But the court in Ariffan did not dispose of the requirement altogether. Instead, it reinforced the need to adopt a holistic approach, with the requirements of relevance and reliability in clear view, in order to reach a just result (at [31]–[33]). b. In the present context, Dr Ung’s Reports could easily have been obtained at the trial if they were thought to be material to Manik’s position. Manik’s case, as set out in his affidavit, was that he developed adjustment disorder between August 2016 and January 2020. The trial took place in January 2020, and sentencing occurred in June 2020. Manik therefore had ample time to raise his alleged adjustment disorder, to seek a psychiatric diagnosis of the same, and to ventilate the issue before the Judge if he or his solicitors thought this was relevant. He made no attempt to do so. In any case, applying the holistic approach propounded in Ariffan (which the court endorsed), the other two requirements in Ladd v Marshall were not satisfied. There was thus no question of adopting an approach of “relative leniency” as to the non-availability requirement (at [27]–[30]).9 Second, Manik’s new evidence on his alleged adjustment disorder was not relevant to his appeal. Manik’s case in CM 6 was that he faced an “inordinate” delay, and that such delay led to his developing a mental illness, namely adjustment disorder. Manik thus had to prove each of the two features of his case – inordinate delay and mental illness – and a causal nexus between the supposedly inordinate delay and his adjustment disorder. He had not shown that he could prove either of these (at [34]).a. Whether there had been an inordinate delay in this matter was something to be considered at the disposal of CCA 26. The court thus limited itself to the following preliminary observations. It was not the case that any or all delays in the prosecution of a criminal matter will warrant a reduction of sentence. To show that there has been an inordinate delay, it will be necessary, as a first step, for the accused person to establish that there has been a delay that is well beyond the sort of time scale that is typically encountered in broadly similar cases. This will be a fact-sensitive inquiry that will turn on the full range of circumstances including the factual and evidential complexity of the matter, the gravity of the offence, the number of witnesses, the extent to which the accused person is forthcoming, the number of accused persons, whether the matter is a joint trial of several accused persons and so on. In the context of Manik’s case, and upon a cursory review of criminal matters involving similar charges, it did not seem that the delay Manik experienced was out of the ordinary (at [35]–[37]). b. The courts do recognise that it is stressful for an accused person to wait for an extended period while investigations are ongoing and the case is being prepared for trial. It is for this reason that the court will typically take this into account by backdating the sentence to the date of remand. The Judge did precisely that, and in this sense, the delay Manik experienced had been accounted for by the Judge in the sentence she imposed (at [39]).c. Dr Ung’s Reports said nothing at all about any causal nexus between Manik’s period in remand and his alleged disorder. Thus, the link between the delay and the adjustment disorder, as asserted by Manik, was not proven (at [41] and [42]).d. In any event, Manik’s new evidence on his adjustment disorder was irrelevant to the question of his sentence. A psychiatric illness may be relevant to sentencing in various ways. First, it may be relevant where it is causally linked to the commission of the offence and therefore reduces the offender’s culpability. This was plainly not in issue in the context of this appeal since Manik’s case is that he became ill after the commission of the offence because of the long duration between his arrest and his trial. Second, in limited circumstances, it may be relevant where the illness is of sufficient severity to warrant the exercise of judicial mercy. Manik, however, did not argue on grounds of judicial mercy, and there was no suggestion that the high threshold for the exercise of such mercy had meet met. Third, an illness may be relevant if, by reason of such illness, any sentence has a gravely disproportionate impact on the particular offender. There was not the slightest attempt by Manik’s counsel to explain how the principle could be invoked. Dr Ung’s Reports did not even attempt to make out such a case (at [45]–[47]).10 Third, Manik’s new evidence was not reliable.a. In the context of CM 6, the court was not tasked to deal with the question whether Manik in fact suffered from adjustment disorder. That was a fact to be subsequently proven in CCA 26 if Manik wished to run this case. Manik’s new evidence on his alleged illness, however, did not even satisfactorily establish the said illness, as it was wholly unreliable (at [44]).b. There is a body of case law on the minimum standards expected of experts who tender opinions to the court concerning the alleged mental illnesses of accused persons. In each of these decisions, the court has emphasised that experts owe a duty to the court to ensure that their evidence is cogent, reliable, and may be gainfully used in the proceedings for which they were prepared (at [50]–[56]).c. Dr Ung’s Reports fell far short of these minimum standards. They were devoid of detail; each was but a page long. They merely stated the medications prescribed to Manik, the symptoms or diseases that such medications were meant to treat, and a one-line diagnosis of “adjustment disorder”. Dr Ung’s Reports did not disclose the methodology, diagnostic criteria, clinical observations or any substantiation for his conclusions. This was not even “evidence” of anything other than the fact that certain drugs had been prescribed by Dr Ung and that certain conclusions were held by him. None of this was relevant or helpful to the court (at [49] and [56]).d. Also, it appeared from the report of a psychiatrist from Bangladesh that Manik had been prescribed some medication even before he came to Singapore. This seemed to wholly undercut Manik’s argument that he became ill after his arrest, and it showed the grossly unsatisfactory manner in which his case was being conducted (at [58]).11 It was therefore abundantly clear that Dr Ung’s Reports did not meet any of the criteria for admission at the stage of the appeal. The court accordingly dismissed CM 6. The parties accepted that the Prosecution’s new evidence was entirely responsive to Manik’s. Having dismissed CM 6, CM 23 did not fall to be considered and the court therefore made no order on it (at [59]).The Court’s observations on improper conduct in CM 612 It should have been immediately evident to any reasonably competent legal practitioner that Dr Ung’s Reports were unsatisfactory and in no state to be adduced as evidence. Given the patent lack of merit in CM 6, the court had concerns over the propriety of the conduct of Manik’s counsel, Mr Eugene Thuraisingam (“Mr Thuraisingam”), and whether it amounted to an intentional abuse of the process of the court on his part. In addition, the court had serious concerns over whether Dr Ung had acted appropriately in dispensing medicine to Manik (at [61]–[63]).13 CM 6 was an abuse of process.a. It is well-established that proceedings which are manifestly groundless or without foundation abuse the process of the court. This rule applies to both the civil and criminal contexts. CM 6 was clearly and hopelessly unmeritorious. None of the three Ladd v Marshall conditions were satisfied. Counsel appeared not to have given consideration to why the application was made and how it could be said to be relevant to the issues in CCA 26 (at [64]–[66] and [68]). b. In addition, CM 6 was an attack on the integrity of the judicial process of the High Court. It was a backdoor attempt to introduce a key point that could and should have been raised at the earliest instance. It also attacked the integrity of the Court of Appeal’s judicial process. It demonstrated a disregard for how the criminal appeal process is typically and by design unidirectional. Save in exceptional circumstances, an appeal should typically not be protracted and shunted back and forth between the trial and appellate courts. Mr Thuraisingam must have known that by raising a previously unconsidered mental illness at the appeal stage, if it was relevant, then it would likely have resulted in the issue being remitted to the trial court. This would have required time and an adjournment of the appeals. Taken together with the patently untenable state of the evidence, it seemed fair to question whether CM 6 had been filed for ulterior purposes (at [71] and [72]).14 Numerous aspects of the present case suggested that Mr Thuraisingam may have been in breach of one or more of his duties as a solicitor and advocate.a. Several duties of solicitors were relevant. First, solicitors have a duty to properly instruct the experts that they appoint. Second, under r 9 of the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015, solicitors have a duty to uphold the integrity of the court, and to conduct their cases in a manner which maintains the fairness, integrity and efficiency of proceedings. These manifest as a duty to avoid filing patently unmeritorious applications which do not contribute to the attainment of justice. Third, solicitors have a duty to conscientiously assess the merits of one’s client’s case before engaging in court proceedings (at [74]–[80]).b. Where a solicitor files an unmeritorious application on behalf of his or her client, this may amount to professional misconduct. Much will depend on how patently unmeritorious the application is and on whether counsel can offer a satisfactory account for filing the application. The fact that the accused person faces dire consequences, even a capital sentence, cannot and will not justify counsel filing ill-considered and baseless applications. Where an application is without reasonable basis, it is well within the court’s discretion to refer the solicitor concerned to the Law Society of Singapore (the “Law Society”) for disciplinary action to be taken (at [82]).c. As explained above, CM 6 was patently unmeritorious and an abuse of process. It was difficult to imagine how Mr Thuraisingam could reasonably have considered that the Reports constituted reliable and admissible evidence, let alone that they might support an argument to reduce Manik’s sentence. Further, Mr Thuraisingam is an experienced member of the criminal bar. A solicitor’s experience is relevant in determining how much leeway the court will afford the solicitor in the face of unmeritorious applications or arguments being made (at [83] and [84]).15 For these reasons, the court found Mr Thuraisingam’s conduct of this matter to be unsatisfactory. He encumbered the court with a patently unmeritorious application which wasted the court’s time. Also, as a result of CM 6, the Prosecution had to incur time and cost in seeking Dr Koh’s opinion. In the circumstances, the court was minded to refer Mr Thuraisingam to the Law Society for disciplinary action. The only reason the court did not do so was that when the aforementioned points were put to Mr Thuraisingam, he made no attempt to defend the indefensible and instead apologised unreservedly (at [85] and [86]).16 The court cautioned that patently unmeritorious applications should be avoided at all costs. A legal practitioner owes a duty to his client to assess the merits of any application appropriately before invoking the court’s processes. He also owes a duty to the court, as well as to the public, to assist in the administration of justice. Filing ill-conceived and hopeless applications are contrary to these duties and impede the smooth conduct of proceedings. These are not novel points, and they have been reiterated in recent decisions of the Court of Appeal (at [87]).17 Finally, the court had concerns over Dr Ung’s evidence. In Dr Ung’s Second Report, he stated that he had prescribed and dispensed Sodium Valproate to Manik, and that he had increased Manik’s Quetiapine dosage, after receiving “a memorandum … from [Manik’s] doctor in Bangladesh”. This memorandum was not provided to the court, though Dr Ung stated that “a list of medications … was prescribed” there. Thus, Dr Ung appeared to have dispensed medication to Manik relying on a report from someone purporting to be a psychiatrist in Bangladesh. Two concerns arose.a. First, it was not clear whether the identity or credentials of the Bangladeshi psychiatrist had been verified. No information in this regard was provided to the court. The court therefore had no means of verifying the contents of the purported diagnosis by the Bangladeshi psychiatrist (at [89]).b. Second, it emerged from the further reports obtained from Dr Ung that Manik’s symptoms had not been verified by Dr Ung himself. There was no evidence that Dr Ung had attempted to corroborate the Bangladeshi psychiatrist’s conclusions by clinical observation or, for that matter, by checking with Prisons. It therefore seemed in the circumstances that medication might have been prescribed at “the inmate’s request”, as may be gleaned from the language used in Dr Ung’s Reports (at [90]).18 In the light of these concerns, Mr Thuraisingam was invited to clarify the position with Dr Ung. No such clarification had been provided at the time of the court’s issuing of its grounds of decision (at [91]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
