
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 September 2021Case summaryIskandar bin Rahmat v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGCA 89Criminal Motion No 21 of 2021  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Steven Chong): Outcome: CoA dismisses the applicant’s motion to intervene in an unrelated criminal appeal on account of his interest in the point of law under consideration therein.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  There is no precedent or legislative mechanism allowing a party to intervene in another criminal proceeding, save for the limited exception of the Attorney-General’s power to intervene in private prosecutions. Aside from that exception, the justice of a criminal case would not justify intervention in related or unrelated criminal proceedings, a fortiori in appellate criminal proceedings (at [33], [36] and [43]). •  In so far as unrelated criminal proceedings are concerned, the court lacks jurisdiction to grant leave to an unrelated party to intervene even if the applicant has an interest in the point of law under consideration in the proceeding in question (at [21] to [23] and [34]). •  In so far as related criminal proceedings are concerned, intervention could be a fruitless endeavour and is also susceptible to abuse, as the outcome of the proceeding in which intervention is sought would not bind the applicant intervener. On the rare occasions when accused persons who are allegedly involved in the same criminal transaction or incident are not tried together for whatever reason, the proper response would be to apply for charges against the related accused persons to be tried together rather than to seek leave to intervene: at [37] to [39]. Background to the application1 The applicant was convicted by the High Court of two counts of murder under s 300(a) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”) and sentenced to the mandatory death penalty. His appeal against his convictions was dismissed by the Court of Appeal on 3 February 2017 in Iskandar bin Rahmat v Public Prosecutor and other matters [2017] 1 SLR 505 (“Judgment”).2 The applicant acknowledged that he would not be able to seek leave to make a review application under s 394H of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”), as his constitutional arguments would not presently satisfy the requirement that the Judgment was demonstrably wrong. The applicant also recognised that he would no longer be able to bring a constitutional challenge against s 300(a) of the Penal Code by way of an originating summons in the High Court, as this would constitute an abuse of the court’s process. 3 Consequently, the applicant filed the present application for leave to intervene in a completely unrelated criminal proceeding, namely, CA/CCA 36/2020 (“CCA 36”). The ostensible purpose of the leave application was to enable the applicant to raise an additional argument to support the constitutional challenge mounted to ss 299 and 300(a) of the Penal Code by the appellant in CCA 36, Teo Ghim Heng (“Teo”). If the challenge by Teo was successful, the applicant intended to use that decision to mount a review application under s 394H of the CPC.The decision of the Court 4 The Court of Appeal’s criminal jurisdiction was statutorily conferred by s 60D of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) and extended to matters falling within the court’s original, appellate, revisionary or supervisory criminal jurisdiction, as well as applications for specific reliefs which were incidental to or supportive of a primary action invoking the court’s criminal jurisdiction: at [18] to [20]. 5 It was plain and obvious that the present application did not directly invoke, and was not supportive of a primary action falling within the court’s original, appellate, revisionary or supervisory criminal jurisdiction. Furthermore, granting the applicant’s intended intervention would amount to an unprincipled circumvention of the conditions governing review applications under s 394H of the CPC. Consequently, the present application was entirely without jurisdictional basis: at [20] to [24]. 6 Section 6 of the CPC permitted the court to adopt “such procedure as the justice of the case may require, and which is not inconsistent with [the CPC] or such other law”, as regards matters of criminal procedure for which no special provision had been made by law. In order to successfully invoke s 6 of the CPC, an applicant had to justify why the adoption of the procedure in question would be in the interests of justice: at [26] and [32]. 7 In the present case, there was no reason for the court to invoke s 6 of the CPC in order to adopt the procedure for intervention in civil proceedings under O 15 r 6(2)(b)(ii) of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”).There was no precedent or legislative mechanism allowing a party to intervene in another criminal proceeding, save for the limited exception of the Attorney-General’s power to intervene in private prosecutions. Aside from that exception, the justice of a criminal case would not justify intervention in related or unrelated criminal proceedings, a fortiori in appellate criminal proceedings. In so far as unrelated criminal proceedings were concerned, the court lacked jurisdiction to grant leave for an unrelated party to intervene even if the applicant had an interest in the point of law under consideration. In so far as related criminal proceedings were concerned, whilst intervention would allow the applicant intervener to participate in another criminal proceeding, the outcome of that proceeding would not determine the applicant’s criminal liability. As a result, intervention could be a fruitless endeavour and would also be susceptible to abuse. On the rare occasions when accused persons who were allegedly involved in the same criminal transaction or incident had not been tried together for whatever reason, the proper response would be to apply for the charges against the related accused persons to be tried together rather than to seek leave to intervene: at [33] to [39] and [43]. 8 The only reason given by the applicant to justify his intervention was that he would be able to raise an additional argument to support Teo’s constitutional challenge in CCA 36. However, it was the prerogative of Teo and his counsel to decide on the arguments which should be placed before the court in CCA 36. Teo might wish to dissociate himself from the additional argument; and if he chose to adopt it, there was no reason why it could not be made by his own counsel: at [40] to [42]. 9 Even if the applicant’s case was taken at its highest and it was assumed that O 15 r 6(2)(b)(ii) of the ROC could be adopted in criminal appellate proceedings, the applicant would not have satisfied the requirements under that provision. First, there was no “question or issue” between the applicant and any party to CCA 36. Second, the applicant had failed to show that there was a question or issue between him and Teo or the Public Prosecutor, being the parties to CCA 36, which bore a sufficient relation to an existing factual question or issue between Teo and the Public Prosecutor: at [44] to [51]. The application was therefore dismissed. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
