
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 September 2021Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v CNH [2021] SGHC 212Court of Three Judges Summons No 1 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: The Court of Three Judges allows the Law Society of Singapore’s (the “Law Society”) application for an order for substituted service.  Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court’s jurisdiction over advocates and solicitors for the purpose of disciplinary proceedings is not founded on service, as is the case for in personam civil jurisdiction, but rather on the very status of a person as an advocate and solicitor, and hence an officer of the court pursuant to the provisions of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”).Background1 The respondent is a solicitor who committed sexual offences against his colleague while he was a legal associate at a local law firm. He pleaded guilty to and was convicted of two offences under s 509 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) for insulting the modesty of his colleague. Subsequently, a disciplinary tribunal (“DT”) was convened under the LPA, which found that there was cause of sufficient gravity to refer the matter to this Court. The Law Society then brought proceedings to establish that pursuant to s 83(2)(h) of the LPA, the respondent was guilty of such misconduct unbefitting an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the Supreme Court or as a member of an honourable profession, and for the respondent to show cause as to why he ought not to be made to suffer one or more of the punishments provided for in s 83(1) of the LPA (the “Show Cause Proceedings”). 2 Arising out of the Show Cause Proceedings, the Law Society made an application under s 98(2) of the LPA for an order for substituted service of a copy of the Originating Summons filed to commence the Show Cause Proceedings and the supporting affidavit filed therein (the “Documents”) by posting a copy of the same together with the order for substituted service at the respondent’s last known address (the “Premises”). The Court of Three Judges’ decision3 The LPA provides the statutory foundation for the court’s civil jurisdiction in disciplinary proceedings, this being written law within the meaning of s 16(2) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed). The LPA also makes it clear that advocates and solicitors are officers of the court. This presupposes and connotes that those so appointed have obligations and responsibilities in upholding the legal framework, and having the attendant privileges conferred under the LPA comes with attendant professional obligations. This renders an advocate and solicitor subject to the control of the court (at [15] to [17]).4 The court’s jurisdiction over advocates and solicitors for the purpose of disciplinary proceedings is not founded on service, as is the case for in personam civil jurisdiction, but rather on the very status of a person as an advocate and solicitor, and hence an officer of the court. In the context of the disciplinary jurisdiction, the court’s interest is to retain flexibility over the process by which it can effectively act against its officers while balancing the interests of justice. The court’s concern with service is therefore to ensure that the respondent does or should reasonably have notice of proceedings, in keeping with the expectations of natural justice (at [18]).5 Where a solicitor is or is believed to be within Singapore, the default rule is that service should be effected in accordance with the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (the “Rules”), as stated in s 98(3) of the LPA. Where a solicitor is believed to be outside of Singapore, directions may be sought as to how service may be affected, pursuant to s 98(2) of the LPA, and in such instances, the court need not be bound by the strictures of the Rules. While the Rules may be followed “as nearly as the circumstances permit”, s 98(10) of the LPA ultimately allows the court to retain the necessary discretion to determine the appropriate directions to be given in the light of all the circumstances of each particular case, and to balance the interests of justice (at [19] to [26]).6 There appeared to have been some indication of a deliberate attempt to avoid personal service, beginning with the respondent’s parents accepting the list of documents for the DT proceedings but refusing to sign the accompanying acknowledgement. On subsequent occasions, the respondent’s parents have either not opened the door at the Premises, or have refused to engage with the process server, resorting even to shutting the door once they saw the process service. Numerous attempts were made to contact the respondent this personal email address and his personal mobile number, but all were met with no reply. These facts thus favoured an order for substituted service (at [27] to [29]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
