
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE25 August 2021Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Shanmugam Manohar [2021] SGHC 201Originating Summons No 7 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The Court of Three Judges sets aside the disciplinary tribunal’s finding that the charges against the respondent solicitor had been proven. The court directs the Law Society of Singapore to apply for the appointment of a new disciplinary tribunal to hear the matter afresh.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Section 259 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) governs the use and admissibility of witness statements in not just criminal proceedings, but civil and disciplinary proceedings as well.1 This case concerned an application by the Law Society of Singapore (“applicant”) for an order that the respondent solicitor be sanctioned under s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”).Background2 In 2016, the Commercial Affairs Department (“CAD”) conducted investigations into an alleged motor insurance fraud scheme in which one Ng Kin Kok (“Ng”) had assisted another person to file a fraudulent motor insurance claim. The CAD recorded a statement from Ng dated 6 April 2016 (“Ng’s Statement”), in which Ng mentioned that he would refer potential motor accident claimants to law firms and be paid a commission by the law firm if the ensuing claim was successful. After Ng was convicted of abetment by cheating, the CAD went on to record a further statement from Ng dated 14 September 2017, a statement from the respondent dated 20 September 2017 and a statement from a partner in the respondent’s law firm dated 12 December 2017 (collectively, the “Contested Statements”). The CAD came to the view that no further criminal offence of cheating or conspiracy to cheat was disclosed and it forwarded its recommendations together with the Contested Statements to the Attorney-General’s Chambers (“AGC”).3 On 2 July 2018, the Attorney-General made a complaint to the applicant concerning possible misconduct by the respondent. After several exchanges, the AGC also forwarded Ng’s Statement and the Contested Statements (collectively, the “Statements”) to the applicant. According to the applicant, the Statements revealed the following: (a) Between 2014 and 2015, Ng referred four clients to the respondent in exchange for referral fees. Ng was paid $800 for each of his referrals of the first, second and fourth clients and $600 for his referral of the third client. In early 2016, Ng was paid $800 for referring a fifth client to the respondent.(b) At the time that the aforementioned clients (collectively, “Clients”) signed their respective warrants to act, neither the respondent nor anyone else from the Firm was present. Instead, the signing of each warrant to act (“WTA”) was witnessed only by Ng, who would subsequently deliver the document to the respondent at a later time when the Clients were not present.4 The applicant thus commenced disciplinary proceedings against the respondent. Based on the applicant’s case, the WTAs for the first four clients were signed (and the relevant referral fees were paid) between March 2014 and July 2015. The disciplinary charges relating to these clients were thus brought under the version of the LPA and the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules (2010 Rev Ed) which were in force prior to legislative amendments made on 18 November 2015 (the “LPA 2011” and “PCR 2011” respectively). The matters relating to the fifth client occurred in 2016 and were thus dealt with by charges brought under the version of the LPA and the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 which were in force subsequent to the amendments of 18 November 2015 (the “LPA 2015” and “PCR 2015” respectively). The main charges against the respondent were as follows (collectively, “Charges”):ChargeLegislative ProvisionMisconduct alleged1st Charges 83(2)(e) LPA 2011Procuring employment through a person (to whom remuneration has been given or promised to be given)2nd Charges 83(2)(e) LPA 20153rd Charges 83(2)(b) LPA 2011 read with r 11A(2)(f) PCR 2011Breach of professional conduct rule (requiring direct communication with client at all appropriate stages) amounting to improper conduct or practice4th Charges 83(2)(b)(i) LPA 2015 read with r 39(2)(g) PCR 20155 Before the disciplinary hearing (“DT Hearing”) took place, the respondent filed HC/OS 1206/2019 (“OS 1206/2019”). In the said application, the respondent sought declarations to the effect that the Contested Statements (a) had been recorded improperly in connection with the investigation of professional misconduct rather than criminal offences; (b) were confidential and should not have been disclosed by the CAD and the AGC to any other persons; and (c) could only be used in criminal proceedings and not for other purposes (including as evidence in disciplinary proceedings). OS 1206/2019 was dismissed by a High Court judge (“Judge”) on 2 April 2020. The respondent initially appealed the Judge’s decision but eventually withdrew his appeal.6 At the DT Hearing, the disciplinary tribunal (“DT”) held that, contrary to the respondent’s submission, the Contested Statements were admissible in evidence. At the close of the applicant’s case, the respondent chose not to give any evidence in his defence or to call any witnesses. Relying mainly on the contents of the Contested Statements, especially the respondent’s own admissions in his police statement, the DT found that the Charges were proved beyond a reasonable doubt and that cause of sufficient gravity existed for disciplinary action under s 83 of the LPA.Parties’ cases in the present application7 The applicant’s case was as follows. The Contested Statements were admissible under the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed) (“EA”), which statute governed the issue of admissibility in disciplinary proceedings pursuant to r 23(1) of the Legal Profession (Disciplinary Tribunal) Rules (2010 Rev Ed) (“DT Rules”). Contrary to the respondent’s submission, s 259 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”) was inapplicable to disciplinary proceedings. Based primarily on the contents of the Statements, the Charges had been proven beyond a reasonable doubt and there was due cause for disciplinary action. The respondent should accordingly be sanctioned under s 83(1) of the LPA.8 On the other hand, the respondent’s case was that the Contested Statements were inadmissible, and the DT had incorrectly relied upon them in finding that the Charges were made out. The respondent advanced three arguments in support. First, the CAD had acted ultra vires in purporting to exercise its power under s 22 of the CPC to record the Contested Statements, with the result that the said statements were a “nullity” and “void ab initio” (“Ultra Vires Argument”). Second, the Contested Statements were confidential in nature and should not have been disclosed by the CAD and the AGC to the applicant (“Confidentiality Argument”). Third, s 259 of the CPC governed the admissibility of the Contested Statements in the present disciplinary proceedings and the said statements were inadmissible under that provision (“CPC Argument”).9 In light of the parties’ cases, the Court of Three Judges (“Court”) directed parties to file further submissions on the following questions:(a) Applicability Question: Whether s 259 of the CPC governs the admissibility of police statements in criminal proceedings only (“Narrow Interpretation”) or all proceedings generally (“Broad Interpretation”).(b) Interface Question: How s 259 of the CPC is to be construed in light of the decisions in Law Society of Singapore v Tan Guat Neo Phyllis [2008] 2 SLR(R) 239 (“Phyllis Tan”) and Wong Keng Leong Rayney v Law Society of Singapore [2007] 4 SLR(R) 377 (“Rayney Wong”).(c) Whether the Court may or should make an order for a fresh hearing under s 98(8)(b) of the LPA in the event that any or all of the Contested Statements are found to be inadmissible in the present disciplinary proceedings.10 The Court also allowed the applicant to convey any views that the AGC had in relation to the Applicability Question and the Interface Question. The Court’s decision11 The Court agreed with the applicant that the respondent was precluded by issue estoppel from raising the Ultra Vires Argument and the Confidentiality Argument. The respondent had already raised the said arguments in OS 1206/2019 and they were conclusively rejected by the Judge. There were no special circumstances giving rise to an exception to issue estoppel. In any event, even if issue estoppel did not arise, the said arguments would have failed on their merits (at [36] and [48] to [53]).12 The respondent was, however, entitled to raise the CPC Argument. Since the said argument had not been raised or ruled upon in OS 1206/2019, no issue estoppel arose. Neither was there an abuse of process given that the CPC Argument was not a point that should reasonably have been raised or decided in OS 1206/2019. The Court thus considered the CPC Argument on its merits (at [54] to [57]).13 In respect of the Applicability Question, the Court preferred the Broad Interpretation of s 259 of the CPC over the Narrow Interpretation (at [111]). The Court held, inter alia, as follows: (a) It was a well-established canon of statutory interpretation that Parliament did not legislate in vain. Section 259(1) of the CPC laid down a general rule that any police statement given by “a person other than the accused” (meaning a witness) in the course of investigations was “inadmissible in evidence” unless it fell within certain specified exceptions. The exception in s 259(1)(c) of the CPC covered any witness statement which was made admissible “in any criminal proceeding by virtue of any other provisions in [the CPC] or the Evidence Act or any other written law” (“s 259(1)(c) exception”). If s 259 of the CPC applied to criminal proceedings only, the general rule of inadmissibility in subsection (1) would be rendered otiose by the s 259(1)(c) exception because the effect of the said exception was that any witness statement which was admissible in criminal proceedings would effectively remain so anyway (at [67] and [71]).(b) On the other hand, no such difficulty arose on the Broad Interpretation. If s 259 of the CPC applied to all proceedings, the rule in subsection (1) would render witness statements generally inadmissible in civil and/or disciplinary proceedings. In the context of criminal proceedings only, the s 259(1)(c) exception would be controlling for the reason given in sub-paragraph (a) above. In all proceedings, the other specified exceptions in subsections (1)(a), (b), (d) and (e) could also apply to render a witness statement admissible (at [70] and [71]).(c) The Broad Interpretation of s 259 of the CPC furthered the specific legislative purposes underlying the provision. Amongst other things, the provision was meant to promote the public interest in encouraging the free and candid disclosure of information by witnesses to law enforcement agencies (“Disclosure Purpose”). It accomplished this by assuring witnesses that statements given in confidence to law enforcement agencies under s 22 of the CPC would generally not be admitted and thereby revealed in subsequent court proceedings. The Disclosure Purpose favoured the Broad Interpretation as the public interest in encouraging the disclosure of information was better served by assuring witnesses that their police statements would not be used in any court proceedings generally (at [92] to [94]).(d) It was also significant that witness statements were recorded by law enforcement agencies pursuant to a coercive power of investigation conferred by s 22 of the CPC. Having conferred such a power for the specific purpose of investigating criminal offences, the legislature had gone on in s 259 to set out how the information obtained could be used in subsequent proceedings. Seen in this light, another purpose of s 259 of the CPC was to place limits on the use of information obtained from witnesses pursuant to the exercise of coercive police powers (“Limitation Purpose”). Evidence which an individual had been compelled by the State to give in connection with criminal investigations against another should not be capable of being used by others in civil and/or disciplinary proceedings against that individual as though it were similar to any other piece of evidence under the EA. The public interest for which the evidence was coercively brought into existence (namely, the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences) would not apply at all in such other proceedings. This was a further factor in favour of the Broad Interpretation (at [95] to [98]).(e) The general legislative purpose of the CPC was to govern the conduct of criminal proceedings generally. The Disclosure Purpose and Limitation Purpose could be seen as “related” and “complementary” to this general purpose as they were to promote the free disclosure of information on the part of witnesses by protecting their liberty and regulating the use of information obtained from them pursuant to the exercise of coercive police powers of investigation which were vitally important for the successful prosecution of criminal cases (at [106] to [107]).14 As to the Interface Question, the Court noted that as a general matter, the EA governed the admissibility of evidence in disciplinary proceedings pursuant to r 23(1) of the DT Rules. Phyllis Tan and Rayney Wong held that under the EA, the overarching principle was that “all relevant evidence is admissible unless specifically expressed to be inadmissible”. The court could only exclude evidence where its prejudicial effect exceeded its probative value and it had no discretion to exclude illegally obtained evidence because of the manner in which it was obtained. In the Court’s view, the Broad Interpretation of s 259 of the CPC was not inconsistent with these principles. Given that s 259 of the CPC barred the admissibility of witness statements save as expressly provided there, that had to be the starting point in determining whether a witness statement was admissible as evidence. The provisions of the EA only became relevant where they fell within one of the exceptions specified in s 259 of the CPC. This had nothing to do with any question of illegally obtained evidence, but simply followed from the Broad Interpretation (at [112] to [119]).15 In the present case, the Court found that the Contested Statements were not admissible in evidence. Consequently, the DT’s determination that the Charges had been proved beyond a reasonable doubt (and that there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action) had to be set aside since it was based primarily on evidence that was wrongly admitted (at [123] to [124] and [131]).16 The Court was satisfied that the interests of justice warranted an order under s 98(8)(b)(ii) of the LPA that the present matter be heard afresh before a new disciplinary tribunal, rather than an order that the respondent be acquitted. This was not a case where evidence that had been properly led at the disciplinary hearing was simply insufficient to prove the charges against the respondent. Rather, DT’s determination was being set aside because the hearing had not been properly conducted owing to the incorrect admission of certain evidence, which had a material impact on the DT’s verdict. There was a strong public interest in having a fresh hearing so that the respondent’s alleged misconduct could be properly investigated (at [139] to [143]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
