
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 August 2021Case summaryYitai (Shanghai) Plastic Co, Ltd v Charlotte Pipe and Foundry Co [2021] SGHC 198 Tribunal Appeal No 2 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Dedar Singh Gill):Outcome: HC dismisses an application to adduce further evidence on appeal in trade mark proceedings. This application was brought by the party appealing the successful opposition to the registration of its trade mark.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  To determine whether to admit further evidence on appeal in trade mark proceedings under O 87 r 4(2) of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”), the Ladd v Marshall [1954] 1 WLR 1489 (“Ladd v Marshall”) test should not be applied strictly. Just because the applicant has not satisfied all the Ladd v Marshall conditions does not mean that its application must necessarily fail. The court should go further to consider whether there are any other compelling factors which make it just to admit the further evidence in question. In this regard, the other considerations stated by Laddie J in Hunt-Wesson Inc’s Trade Mark Application [1996] RPC 233 (“Hunt-Wesson”) (“the Hunt-Wesson factors”), while non-exhaustive, are relevant (at [32]). However, despite these principles, given the policy objectives of finality in litigation and the expeditious resolution of other cases pending before the Registrar of Trade Marks, the admission of further evidence should be the exception, rather than the norm (at [89]).•  Pleadings (ie, the Notice of Opposition and Counter-statement) must be full in the sense that each party must outline each of the grounds relied upon and state the case relied upon in support of those grounds (at [100]). In particular, all trade marks relied on (whether registered or unregistered) must be specifically stated with the relevant details (at [114(b)]).•  The General Division of the High Court has the power to remit cases to the Registrar of Trade Marks under O 55 r 6(5) of the ROC or its inherent power (at [76]–[77]).The material facts1 The applicant was a Chinese company which filed an international registration for a trade mark (“the Application Mark”), designating Singapore. The respondent was a US company which successfully opposed the registration of the Application Mark. The Intellectual Property Adjudicator (“the Adjudicator”) allowed the opposition under s 8(7)(a) of the Trade Marks Act (Cap 332, 2005 Rev Ed) (“TMA”) on the ground that the applicant passed off one of the respondent’s unregistered trade marks, referred to as the “Respondent’s Unregistered Logo Mark”. After filing the appeal, HC/TA 2/2021 (“TA 2/2021”), the applicant sought to adduce further evidence under O 87 r 4(2) of the ROC.2 The background to this application to adduce further evidence on appeal is as follows. At the oral hearing for the opposition, the Adjudicator rejected a preliminary objection by the applicant to the respondent’s reliance on the respondent’s unregistered marks (“the Respondent’s Unregistered Marks”), including the Respondent’s Unregistered Logo Mark. The applicant argued that the respondent failed to plead these marks. However, the Adjudicator found that there was sufficient reference, in the respondent’s pleadings and the evidence tendered, to the respondent’s common law rights in the Respondent’s Unregistered Marks. The Adjudicator then allowed the opposition under s 8(7)(a) of the TMA. 3 As part of the finding on passing off, the Adjudicator recognised the respondent’s goodwill in Singapore from 2013 to 2015 based on invoices from the respondent to its Singapore distributor, Agru Technology Pte Ltd (“Agru Tech”) on which the Respondent’s Unregistered Logo Mark was printed (“the Respondent-Agru Tech Invoices”). The Adjudicator also accepted, as evidence of goodwill, invoices from Agru Tech to consumers in Singapore, from 2014 to 2015 (“the Agru Tech-Singapore Consumers Invoices”). 4 Although the respondent’s registered mark and the Respondent’s Unregistered Marks were not printed on the Agru Tech-Singapore Consumers Invoices, the Adjudicator found that the description of the products on these invoices appeared to correspond with the description of products sold from the respondent to Agru Tech and the description of the respondent’s products on Agru Tech’s website.  5 In this application, two categories of evidence were sought to be adduced. 6 The first category of evidence was the “Import Evidence”. The Import Evidence aimed to prove use of the Application Mark in Singapore prior to the earliest date on which the respondent’s goodwill was recognised – 17 December 2013. Such use was in the form of exports of products, by reference to the Application Mark, from China to Hyflux Membrane Manufacturing (S) Pte Ltd (“Hyflux”) in Singapore in 2012 and 2013. The applicant highlighted that the photographs of the goods it exported from China to Singapore in 2012 and a pipe with the Application Mark affixed on it installed in the Hyflux Tuaspring water desalination plant in Singapore (“the Pipe Photograph”) were of particular significance.  7 The second category of evidence was the “SCH 80 Evidence”. The applicant was of the view that the Adjudicator erred in finding, from the Agru Tech-Singapore Consumers Invoices, that Agru Tech had supplied the respondent’s products to customers in Singapore. On the applicant’s reading of [68] of the Grounds of Decision, the Adjudicator erroneously concluded that the terms “SCH 80”, “Schedule 80” or “PVC SCH 80” (“the SCH 80 Terms”) found in the Agru Tech-Singapore Consumers Invoices were distinctive of the respondent’s goods. The applicant’s SCH 80 Evidence aimed to show that, in fact, these were generic terms and/or specifications which were widely used in industry. Put another way, the Agru Tech-Singapore Consumers Invoices did not evidence sales of the respondent’s goods by Agru Tech to consumers in Singapore. The SCH 80 Evidence consisted of: (a) the definition of PVC; (b) websites illustrating the meaning of Schedule 80; and (c) sales brochures from companies around the world which sold PVC Schedule 80 pipes.The court’s decision 8 The High Court declined to admit both categories of further evidence for the purpose of TA 2/2021 and dismissed the application (at [115]).Import Evidence9 The court held that none of the Ladd v Marshall conditions was satisfied in respect of the Import Evidence (at [68]). 10 With regards the first Ladd v Marshall condition, the Import Evidence was obtainable with reasonable diligence in proceedings below. This was because the applicant had itself asserted prior user of the Application Mark in Singapore since 2011 in its statutory declaration (at [42]) and should have been alive to the respondent’s intention to rely on the Respondent’s Unregistered Marks based on the respondent’s pleadings and evidence (at [44]). Yet, the applicant squandered multiple opportunities to respond to the Respondent’s Unregistered Marks, including refusing to address them when invited to do so by the Adjudicator at the oral hearing below (at [45]). 11 Whether the second Ladd v Marshall condition was fulfilled depended on the weight that could be ascribed to the photographs in the Import Evidence. The question of weight was, in turn, linked to the credibility of the photographs which fell to be assessed under the third Ladd v Marshall condition (at [49]). 12 However, under the third Ladd v Marshall condition, the court found that the photographs and their metadata  (recording, for example, the time and date on which the photographs were taken) were not apparently credible (at [53]). Although the photographs and their metadata benefited from a prima facie presumption under s 116A of the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed) that the relevant device accurately communicated the electronic record, the court had several reservations about the credibility of the evidence. For instance, there were inconsistencies between the photographs and other contemporaneous documents (at [56]) and, for various reasons, the photographs were inconclusive as to whether the alleged sales were made by reference to the Application Mark (at [63]–[65]). The court was also unable to determine if the Pipe Photograph was taken in Singapore (at [66]). Thus, both the third and second Ladd v Marshall conditions were not fulfilled.13 The court next considered three Hunt-Wesson factors.14 First, the court accepted that the respondent would suffer prejudice which could not be compensated by costs if the application was allowed (at [71]). The first form of prejudice was that the possible delay in resolving the matter would prolong the likelihood of confusion in the market, if the opposition founded on s 8(7)(a) TMA was subsequently upheld in TA 2/202 (at [71]). The final resolution of this matter would possibly be delayed because the General Division of the High Court had the power to remit the matter to the Adjudicator under O 55 r 6(5) of the ROC or its inherent power (at [76]–[77]). In this case if the application was allowed, the court would have remitted the matter to the Registrar of Trade Marks to allow the respondent to test the credibility and relevance of the Import Evidence through cross-examination (at [82]). The second form of prejudice was the subversion of the respondent’s expectation that the existing evidence was all that the applicant wanted to rely on to contest its opposition (at [84]).15 Second, with regards multiplicity of proceedings, the court held that the desirability of preventing the respondent from needing to fight, for a second time, the opposition which it had already won before the Adjudicator was an important factor which undermined the application (at [88]). 16 Third, with regards public interest, the court agreed with the respondent that the public interest in deterring parties from presenting a partial or incomplete case at first instance weighed against allowing the application (at [96]). Further, the party asserting a proprietary right in a trade mark had the responsibility to put forth its entire case, including all relevant material in support thereof. Less leeway may be granted to such parties to adduce further evidence after failing to obtain registration at first instance (at [91]).17 Balancing all the relevant circumstances, the court concluded that the justice of the case did not call for the admission of the Import Evidence. Having made the strategic decision not to accept the Adjudicator’s offer to respond to the Respondent’s Unregistered Marks at the hearing below, the applicant now had to live by its choice (at [98]–[99]).SCH 80 Evidence18 Although the first and third Ladd v Marshall conditions were fulfilled, the SCH 80 Evidence was not admitted because the second Ladd v Marshall condition was not satisfied. The SCH 80 Evidence would have no important influence on the outcome of the appeal because: (a) the respondent was not disputing the very fact that the SCH 80 Evidence sought to prove – that the SCH 80 Terms were general descriptors; and (b) even if the SCH 80 Terms were general descriptors, there was another common identifier of the goods being sold in the Respondent-Agru Tech Invoices and Agru Tech-Singapore Consumers Invoices which showed that the respondent’s goods were being sold by Agru Tech to other Singapore consumers (at [113]).19 The Hunt-Wesson factors discussed in connection with the Import Evidence, viz, prejudice, multiplicity of proceedings and public interest, were neutral to the question of whether the SCH 80 Evidence should be admitted (at [112]).Conclusion20 For the reasons above, the Import Evidence and SCH 80 Evidence were not admitted for the purpose of TA 2/2021.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
