
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE23 August 2021Case summaryPoh Chiak Ow v United Overseas Bank Ltd [2021] SGHC(A) 6Civil Appeal No 11 of 2021 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Woo Bih Li JAD):Outcome: The Appellate Division of the High Court dismissed the appeal.Background to the appeal1 The appellant, Mr Poh Chiak Ow (“Poh”), was a privilege banking customer of the respondent, United Overseas Bank Ltd (“UOB”). From early 2017 to August 2018, one Mr Ashley Wong Xianwei (“Wong”) served as Poh’s relationship manager with UOB. In late 2017, with Wong’s involvement, Poh invested a total of US$500,000 into PixelTrade (UK) Limited (“PixelTrade”). From January 2018, Poh tried to recover his investment in PixelTrade but was unable to get any of his money back.  2 Poh therefore sued UOB, claiming that Wong had made seven representations to him which induced him to invest in PixelTrade. The first of these representations was the main one which Poh pursued in the High Court proceedings. This was that Wong had told him that PixelTrade was approved by UOB. Poh claimed that Wong had made the representations with no honest belief, no reasonable grounds for belief, and/or no bona fide intention that they were true. Alternatively, Wong made them fraudulently or recklessly. Poh claimed that UOB was vicariously liable for Wong’s misrepresentations. 3 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) found that Wong did not make the alleged misrepresentations. He alternatively found that even if Wong had made the misrepresentations, it would not be fair, just and reasonable to hold UOB vicariously liable since Wong’s representations were thoroughly contradicted by the documents which Poh received from UOB. 4 Poh appealed. On appeal, Poh’s case focused on the first representation.The decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court5 As parties agreed to dispense with an oral hearing and that the matter be heard by a coram of two judges, the court decided to do so to save judicial resources and reduce costs for both parties: at [1].6 The court dismissed the appeal. 7 Poh’s Statement of Claim and affidavit of evidence-in-chief took the position that Wong had misrepresented to him that PixelTrade was UOB approved. However, in Poh’s opening statement and in his counsel’s cross-examination of Wong, he took the position that Wong had failed to inform him that PixelTrade had not been approved by UOB. The Judge had referred to this as a “sea change”. The court found that while the opening statement and transcript of the cross-examination did not show that Poh was abandoning his case on the first representation, it showed that Poh’s counsel had conflated the two positions, and this did not assist Poh: at [36] to [44].8 There was no basis for the court to disturb the Judge’s finding that the first representation was not made. There was an inexplicable delay before Poh first complained about the alleged misrepresentation. Poh did not mention the first representation in the many meetings and correspondence that he had with Wong, UOB representatives, and PixelTrade representatives. This suggested that it was a mere afterthought: at [35], [66] to [90].9 While Poh relied on various evidence to support his case, these were equivocal and did not support his case. Further, while the evidence seemed to show that Wong had recommended PixelTrade to Poh, this did not mean that Wong had told Poh that PixelTrade was UOB approved: at [53] to [58].10 Poh argued that the Judge erred in placing weight on various points which he should not have. The court disagreed with some of Poh’s arguments, finding that the Judge was entitled to draw the inferences which he did. Further, while the Judge may have erred in relying on certain points which he should not have, these would not have materially changed the outcome of Poh’s claim because the burden of proof lay on Poh to positively prove his case and he had not done so: at [59] to [65].11 In the light of the above, it was not necessary for the court to deal with the question of vicarious liability: at [91].12 The court awarded costs of $40,000 to the respondent, inclusive of disbursements: at [92].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
