
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE20 August 2021Case summaryThe “Luna” and another appeal [2021] SGCA 84 Civil Appeals Nos 22 and 28 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA allows appeal against High Court’s decision to find carriers liable to shipper for misdelivery of bunker fuel, but dismisses appeal against decision not to award them damages for wrongful arrest. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal explains the different approaches adopted by the court in cases involving the ascertainment of the existence of a contract and cases involving the interpretation of a contract (at [30]). •  The Court of Appeal finds that documents titled “Bill of Lading” were not typical bills of lading in so far as they were not intended by the carrier and the shipper to operate as contractual documents or as documents of title (at [51]). •  The Court of Appeal sets out the appropriate approach when a decision as to costs is rendered separately from and after the decision on the merits of the dispute (at [103]–[104]). Background facts1 The respondent is Phillips 66 International Trading Pte Ltd, whose business activities include the trading and supply of bunker fuel. The appellants were the respective demise charterers and/or owners of the vessels Luna, Zmaga, Nepamora, Star Quest, Petro Asia and Arowana Milan (“the Vessels”). The Vessels are bunker barges used to supply bunker fuel to other vessels.2 The respondent sold several parcels of bunkers to OW Bunker Far East (Singapore) Pte Ltd and Dynamic Oil Trading (Singapore) Pte Ltd (collectively, “the Buyers”). The Buyers were subsidiaries of OW Bunker A/S (“OW Bunker”). The sale contracts provided that payment for the bunkers would only become due upon the expiry of 30 calendar days after the certificate of quantity (“CQ”) date. 3 Pursuant to the sale contracts, the Buyers nominated the Vessels for loading of the bunkers at Vopak Terminal Pte Ltd (“Vopak Terminal”) on various dates in October 2014. Upon loading, Vopak Terminal generated, among other documents, a CQ and a document issued in triplicate titled “Bill of Lading” (“the Vopak BLs”). Shortly after the completion of each loading, the Vopak BLs and other documents would be sent by Vopak Terminal to the respondent. Once in hand, only the original CQ would be couriered to the Buyers; the Vopak BLs would remain with the respondent until after payment was received. 4 Meanwhile, the Vessels delivered the bunkers to various ocean-going vessels within several days from the date of loading. This was done without production of the original Vopak BLs, which were still in the respondent’s possession at the material time. In the case of some of the Vessels, they returned to Vopak Terminal or went to another terminal in Singapore to load additional bunkers even before the previous shipment of bunkers had been fully discharged, which resulted in the commingling of bunkers on board. 5 Sometime in November 2014, OW Bunker became insolvent and the Buyers defaulted on payment. Following this, the respondent demanded delivery of the bunkers from the appellants. The Vessels were subsequently separately arrested by the respondent. 6 The respondent’s case was that the appellants were liable to it in contract, conversion, bailment, negligent misrepresentation, and/or for damage to its reversionary interest. The appellants denied these claims and, in the alternative, sought to rely on several defences. They further counterclaimed against the respondent for wrongful arrest. One of the main disputed issues was whether the Vopak BLs had been intended to operate as contractual documents and/or as documents of title. 7 In the proceedings below, the High Court judge (“the Judge”) allowed the respondent’s claim in contract and dismissed the appellants’ counterclaims for wrongful arrest. The Judge held that the Vopak BLs had contractual force and functioned as typical bills of lading. Having made this finding, the Judge went on to reject the appellants’ other defences, and to dismiss the appellants’ counterclaims for wrongful arrest. As the Judge had found for the respondent on the basis of its claim in contract, he did not deal with the respondent’s alternative causes of action. Dissatisfied, the appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision. The Court of Appeal’s decision The nature of the Vopak BLs8 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) drew a distinction between cases involving the ascertainment of the existence of a contract and cases involving the interpretation of a contract. In the former category of cases, the approach to background was wider as there was no restriction on the evidence which the court may consider: at [30]. 9 When ascertaining whether the parties intended for the Vopak BLs to have contractual effect, the court was not limited by the more restrictive approach applied to the interpretation of a contract. Instead, the court was entitled to take into account all the relevant circumstances of the case in order to draw the appropriate inferences as to what the parties had objectively intended by the issuance of the Vopak BLs. Furthermore, the court may have regard not only to the perspectives of the shipper and the carrier, but also to the perspectives of other parties who were generally known to use the Vopak BLs: at [38], [40].10 Given that the Vopak BLs were inextricably connected to the sale contracts, it was apposite to examine the commercial arrangements between the respondent and the Buyers thereunder. Several features of the sale contracts were salient: (a) the Buyers were given a 30-day credit period by the respondent; (b) payment was required to be made by the Buyers against the presentation of the respondent’s commercial invoice and the original CQ or a letter of indemnity (“LOI”); (c) title to and possession of the bunkers passed to the Buyers upon loading; (d) there was a conspicuous absence of any reference to bills of lading in the terms of the sale contracts; and (e) the Buyers gave delivery instructions to the appellants, and the respondent knew that deliveries would be made shortly after loading such that any attempt to demand delivery of the bunkers after the credit period expired would be futile: at [42]–[48].11 These sale arrangements showed that, as the Judge found, the respondent had no real obligation to transfer the Vopak BLs to the Buyers for payment. Nor were the Buyers expecting to receive the Vopak BLs for the purposes of claiming delivery of the bunkers. It followed that the respondent and the Buyers could not have intended for the Buyers to be able to lawfully deal with the bunkers only upon presentation of an original Vopak BL. Rather, the Buyers could deal with the bunkers as soon as they were loaded on board the Vessels. Thus, as between the respondent and the Buyers, the Vopak BL was a non-essential document with no contractual force or effect as a contract of carriage or as a document of title. It did not and could not serve the traditional functions of a bill of lading: at [49], [51].12 In light of the respondent’s commercial arrangements with the Buyers, the respondent knew that the Vopak BLs would not allow it to regain possession of the bunkers it had sold by presenting the same to the appellants and demanding delivery. The respondent had always looked to the Buyers for payment, rather than regarded the Vopak BLs as security against the risk of non-payment. This would also have been known by the appellants who, as the carriers, were active participants in the commercial arrangements between the respondent and the Buyers. Therefore, neither the respondent nor the appellants could have intended for delivery of the bunkers to be made only upon presentation of an original Vopak BL, and the Vopak BLs could not have offered the respondent any security against default by the buyer that typical bills of lading would. In sum, the parties’ commercial arrangements indicated that they had not intended for the Vopak BLs to function as typical bills of lading: at [53], [55]–[56]. 13 The Vopak BLs did not specify a port of discharge. Instead, the phrase “bunkers for ocean going vessels” was inserted where a destination would ordinarily be indicated, which suggested that the parties intended to omit a destination altogether. This omission represented a significant departure from ordinary practice, from which it may be inferred that the parties did not intend for the Vopak BLs to operate as typical bills of lading: at [58], [61], [63]. 14 The parties contemplated delivery of the bunkers to multiple ocean-going vessels, which reinforced the view that the Vopak BLs were not intended to operate as typical bills of lading. The conflict between the presentation rule and the contemplation of multiple deliveries, especially in light of the 30-day credit period, led to the conclusion that the parties never intended the presentation rule to apply: at [64], [69]. 15 By extending credit to the Buyers and deliberately omitting to stipulate for the use of traditional bills of lading under the sale contracts, the respondent had accepted the risk of non-payment by the Buyers. It was absurd to suggest that the respondent’s decision to accept such risk could, in any way at all, result in the transfer of that risk to the carrier. It was also untenable for the respondent to suggest that the appellants somehow agreed to assume the risk of non-payment by the Buyers. It was unrealistic to expect the appellants to obtain LOIs from the Buyers or the charterers who were giving instructions on behalf of the Buyers, or from the ocean-going vessels: at [70]–[73].The respondent’s alternative claims16 The Court rejected the respondent’s claim in bailment. As title to and possession of the bunkers had passed to the Buyers upon loading, the bunkers could not be regarded as the respondent’s goods. Accordingly, no relationship of bailment arose between the respondent and the appellants. There was also nothing to suggest that a “special agreement” or “special contract” was made between the respondent and the appellants such that a relationship of bailment nevertheless arose despite the respondent having passed title to and possession of the goods to the Buyers. Nor did the facts show that the appellants had attorned in favour of the respondent: at [80]–[81]. 17 The Court rejected the respondent’s claim in negligent misrepresentation. A reasonable person in the respondent’s position would not have understood the Vopak BLs as constituting a representation by the appellants to hold the bunkers to the respondent’s order and only deliver the bunkers upon presentation of an original Vopak BL. Furthermore, the respondent did not rely on the alleged misrepresentation. The respondent knew that the appellants would deliver the bunkers to ocean-going vessels without presentation of an original Vopak BL, but nevertheless loaded the bunkers on board the Vessels: at [83]. 18 The Court rejected the respondent’s claim for damage to its reversionary interest in the commingled bunkers. The respondent did not have any proprietary interest in the commingled bunkers, and there was no wrongful act on the part of the appellants that could serve as the basis of the respondent’s claim: at [85], [88]. Wrongful arrest19 The Court found that the respondent was not liable for wrongful arrest. It could not be said that the respondent’s claims were so unwarrantably brought, or brought with so little colour, or so little foundation, as to imply malice or gross negligence. Furthermore, the matters that the respondent had allegedly failed to disclose would not have delivered a “knock out blow” to its claims: at [91]. Appeal against costs20 Where a costs decision was delivered before a notice of appeal had been filed in respect of the substantive decision, the appellant should file a single notice of appeal against both the substantive decision and the costs decision. Such an appellant who had filed an appeal against the whole decision within time was at liberty to argue as of right that the costs order below should change regardless of the outcome of the substantive appeal: at [103].21 Where a costs decision was delivered after a notice of appeal had been filed in respect of the substantive decision, there were two possible situations. Where the costs appeal rested on the outcome of the substantive appeal, the appellant need not file an additional notice of appeal or amend the notice of appeal that had been filed. Where the costs appeal was independent of the substantive appeal, the appellant would need to seek leave to file an additional notice of appeal. In such cases, leave to appeal would generally be granted if the appellant was agreeable to having the appeals consolidated or fixed for hearing together. If leave to appeal was granted, the appellant would have to file a separate notice of appeal rather than amend the earlier notice of appeal against the substantive decision: at [104]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
