
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 August 2021Case summaryVJP v VJQ [2021] SGCA 82Civil Appeal No 210 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Andrew Phang Boon Leong JCA):Outcome: CoA allows appeal against the division of matrimonial assets as the appellate court below made an arithmetical error in not recomputing the parties’ percentage shares of the reduced matrimonial pool after excluding certain assets from the matrimonial pool on appeal.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In cases of dual-income marriages to which the structured approach in ANJ v ANK [2015] 4 SLR 1043 (“the ANJ approach”) applies, where an appellate court excludes certain assets from the matrimonial pool, it should ordinarily reassess the ratio of the parties’ direct contributions and, consequently, their respective percentage shares of the reduced matrimonial pool (at [21]–[25]).Background to the appeal1 This appeal concerned the division of matrimonial assets in divorce proceedings. In the ancillary matters proceedings, the District Judge valued the matrimonial pool at $2,305,219.75. Adopting the ANJ approach, she found the ratio of the parties’ direct contributions to be 67:33 in the husband’s favour. She also assessed the ratio of the parties’ indirect contributions at 45:55 in the wife’s favour. Accordingly, she held that the overall division ratio was 56:44 in the husband’s favour.2 After taking into account the husband’s sole assets, the District Judge found that he was entitled to a further sum of $470,954.86 as his 56% share of the matrimonial assets. As the husband wished to take over the Housing and Development Board flat (“the HDB flat”) which he and the wife jointly owned, and which was worth $535,000, the District Judge ordered him to pay the wife an approximate sum of $65,000 (being $535,000 - $470,954.86).3 The husband and wife filed cross-appeals against the District Judge’s decision. Both appeals were allowed in part. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) excluded two assets from the matrimonial pool, namely, certain shares owned by the husband and an undisbursed loan for a condominium which the parties jointly owned. However, the Judge did not recompute the parties’ respective percentage shares of the reduced matrimonial pool.4 The wife sought and was denied leave from the High Court to appeal against the Judge’s decision. When that application was heard, the Judge ordered that the sum of $65,000 due from the husband to the wife, as held by the District Judge, was to remain unchanged.5 The wife then applied to the Court of Appeal for leave to appeal against the Judge’s decision. The Court of Appeal granted leave only in respect of the following issue: “When an appellate court decides that certain items of assets should be deducted from the pool of matrimonial assets determined by the lower court and maintains the parties’ percentage shares and the lower court has computed the distribution between the parties in those percentage shares based on the pool as found by the lower court, should the appellate court recompute the distribution on the same percentages based on the reduced pool as found by the appellate court?”The Court of Appeal’s decision6 The ratio of the parties’ direct contributions ought to be reassessed on account of the reduced matrimonial pool (at [21]). Where the documentary evidence could not establish each party’s precise financial contribution, the court would exercise its broad discretion in estimating the figures (at [22]). However, where there was no dispute as to the exact amounts of the parties’ respective financial contributions, the court would compute the ratio of their direct contributions as a purely arithmetical exercise and not as a matter of discretion (at [22] and [27]). Where there was a subsequent reduction of the matrimonial pool (as was the case here), each party’s financial contribution towards the acquisition or improvement of the matrimonial assets necessarily changed (at [22]). It followed that the ratio of the parties’ direct contributions ought to be recalibrated, which would in turn affect the overall division ratio (at [22]). This process was also a purely arithmetical exercise (at [22]).7 However, the court’s analysis was subject to three caveats. First, where an appellate court excluded certain assets from the matrimonial pool, it was arithmetically necessary to reassess the parties’ respective percentage shares of the reduced matrimonial pool only in cases of dual-income marriages to which the ANJ approach applied (at [24]). In single-income marriages, the ANJ approach was inapplicable and the relationship between the parties’ respective financial contributions and the overall division ratio was less linear (at [23]). It might thus be inappropriate or unnecessary to adjust the overall division ratio in single-income marriages even where certain assets were excluded from the matrimonial pool on appeal, particularly where those assets were of a relatively low value (at [23]).8 Second, an appellate court was entitled to decline to adjust the parties’ percentage shares where the re-computation would yield only a trifling difference (at [25]).9 Third, the Court of Appeal’s decision ought not to be construed as a licence for parties to re-litigate the values of the matrimonial assets or the amounts of their respective financial contributions (at [26]).10 In the light of the Judge’s decision, the parties’ relative direct contributions had clearly changed and the division ratio hence ought to be recalibrated (at [28]). The new ratio of the parties’ direct contributions was 65.4:34.6 in the husband’s favour (at [30]). There was no change to the ratio of the parties’ indirect contributions at 45:55 in the wife’s favour (at [31]). The overall division ratio was thus 55.2:44.8 in the husband’s favour (at [31]).11 Having deducted the new value of the husband’s sole assets, the Court of Appeal held that he ought to receive a further sum of $417,334.27 as his 55.2% share of the reduced matrimonial pool (at [32]). As he wished to take over the HDB flat, which was worth $535,000, he was ordered to pay the wife a sum of $535,000 - $417,334.27 = $117,665.73, instead of $65,000 as ordered by the Judge (at [32] and [38]).12 The Court of Appeal cautioned that appeals in respect of trivial adjustments to the sums awarded below would not be favourably received (at [40]). Litigants who insisted on bringing such appeals ought to be prepared to bear the adverse costs consequences, even if their appeals succeeded (at [40]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
