
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 August 2021Case summaryMah Kiat Seng v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGCA 79Criminal Motion No 11 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: CoA rejects application for leave to commence criminal reference due to late filing and lack of merit; application was the second made to the CoA by litigant in respect of same matter.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In considering whether an extension of time should be granted to file a criminal motion, the court will not only consider the length of delay, the reasons for the delay and the likelihood of success. It will also scrutinise the proceedings in their entirety to determine whether the belatedly filed application is an abuse of process (at [37]).•  It is impermissible to reframe questions of fact as alleged questions of law in an attempt to satisfy the requirements of an application for leave to bring a criminal reference. Disguising questions of fact as questions of law is an improper invocation of the court’s processes, and leave will not be granted (at [2], [53], [58] and [61]).•  Singapore’s system of one-tier appeal must be respected. Filing applications ad infinitum and indefinitely protracting legal proceedings would place an unbearable strain on our legal system and its finite resources. Protraction in this manner also serves only to cause further grief for those involved. Time and resources will be needlessly expended in futile fashion, when they could, instead, be used in other meaningful endeavours, and to help parties move on from the bitterness of litigation (at [74]).Background to the application1 On 31 January 2019, the applicant, Mr Mah Kiat Seng, was convicted in the District Court for one count of voluntarily causing hurt punishable under s 323 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed). The District Judge (“DJ”) found the applicant guilty of punching a security officer several times at the National University of Singapore Mochtar Riady Building on 30 November 2017. He was sentenced to a $5,000 fine. On 24 August 2020, in HC/MA 9036/2019/01 (“MA 9036”), a High Court judge (“the Judge”) dismissed the applicant’s appeal against his conviction and sentence.2 Following his concluded appeal, the applicant filed three criminal motions. The applicant’s first and second criminal motions – HC/CM 40/2020 (“CM 40”) and CA/CM 24/2020 (“CM 24”) – were filed on 31 August 2020. CM 40 was summarily refused by the High Court on 17 September 2020. CM 24 was dismissed by the Court of Appeal following a hearing, on 1 February 2021. 3 The present criminal motion (the “Motion”), filed on 25 February 2021 under s 397(1) of the CPC, was the third filed by the applicant in respect of his concluded appeal in MA 9036. In the Motion, he raised three purported questions of law of public interest (“the three questions”). The three questions pertained to various aspects of the evidence that appeared to contradict the Judge’s decision in MA 9036, including a doctor’s opinion and a medical report. The Motion had not been filed within the one-month timeframe stipulated under s 397(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”), which expired on 23 September 2020. It was filed five months late. Hence, the applicant also sought an extension of time to file the Motion.The Court’s grounds of decision on extension of time4 Three matters are relevant when the court considers whether to grant an extension of time. First, the court will have regard to the length of the delay; the longer the delay, the greater will be the importance accorded to the accompanying explanation. Second, the court will consider the existence of some prospect of success in the application. Third, the court will scrutinise the proceedings to ensure that its processes are not being abused (at [28]).5 The applicant’s request for an extension of time to file the Motion fell afoul of each of the three considerations above. The applicant’s reason for the delay was that he did not understand the reasoning behind the Judge’s decision in MA 9036 at the time the decision was rendered. Following the dismissal of CM 24, the applicant then gained clarity on the Judge’s reasoning in MA 9036, and consequently filed the Motion. This was an unsatisfactory reason. The Judge’s oral grounds made the reasons for the dismissal of MA 9036 amply clear. The applicant was also represented at the time of MA 9036, and his counsel would have been able to explain the decision to him (at [30]–[31]).6 The Motion had low prospects of success, in two senses. First, the prospect of the applicant being granted leave the bring the criminal reference was non-existent. The three questions were questions of fact, not law. These cannot form the subject matter of an application for leave under s 397(1) of the CPC. Second, the applicant’s chances of succeeding on the merits of the Motion were also low. The three questions raised by the applicant were not new issues but had obvious answers that were well-entrenched in current jurisprudence (at [2], [35] and [36]).7 In determining whether an extension of time will be granted, the court will consider, having regard to the litigation in its entirety, whether its processes are being abused. In this case, the Motion was the third criminal motion brought by the applicant. The previous two had been dismissed. Thus, viewed in context, the Motion was drip-feeding questions through multiple applications – such conduct has been contemplated and eschewed by the Court of Appeal on previous occasions. More egregiously, the applicant disguised questions of fact as purported questions of law. This was patent on the face of the applicant’s affidavit and the arguments he had raised. The applicant had therefore invoked s 397 of the CPC for an improper purpose. This was an abuse of process and could not be allowed (at [37]–[39]).8 For the above reasons, no extension of time was granted. The Motion was dismissed for being filed out of time (at [44]).The Court’s grounds of decision on whether leave should be granted9 Given the court’s conclusion in respect of extension of time, there was strictly speaking no need to consider whether leave should be granted to the applicant to bring a criminal reference. The court nonetheless explained why the Motion had no merit in any event, with reference to the three questions.10 The applicant’s first question was essentially whether the doctor’s opinion that the security officer’s injuries were “minor” contradicted the Judge’s finding that the applicant’s response exceeded what was reasonably necessary. This was a question of fact, not law, and could not form the subject matter of an application under s 397 of the CPC. It is trite that “reasonably necessary” involves a fact-sensitive inquiry, to be determined the circumstances of each case. That was precisely the inquiry that the Judge undertook, and the DJ’s findings were affirmed in MA 9036. Those findings could not be challenged again (at [52]–[54]).11 The applicant’s second question was whether the medical report indicating a single bruise on the security officer contradicted the Judge’s finding that the applicant punched the security officer multiple times. The applicant suggested, in the question, that the legal question was “whether judges … are not bounded [sic] by the Evidence Act”. The overarching suggestion was that the Judge, in breach of the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed) (“Evidence Act”), disregarded the medical report and found that the applicant had punched the security officer multiple times. In so doing, the applicant was challenging the Judge’s factual finding. This was impermissible. There was no legal question. If one were to take the applicant’s question at face value, the “legal question” was whether the courts are bound by the Evidence Act. This is not a novel question. Rather it is one that has the obvious answer that the applicant himself furnished: the courts are bound by the statute. It would be absurd to suggest otherwise (at [57]–[59]).12 The applicant’s third question was whether the doctor’s opinion that the security officer’s injuries were “minor” contradicted the Judge’s finding that the applicant had punched the security officer multiple times. This was a challenge against the Judge’s factual finding, which was completely impermissible in an application under s 397 of the CPC (at [60]–[61]).13 Finally, the applicant also sought to rely on s 397(6) of the CPC, which is a deeming provision for questions of law of public interest. The provision was inapplicable. There was no “conflict of judicial authority” in respect of the three questions, which rendered s 397(6)(a) inapplicable. Finally, as the Prosecution was not the party referring the questions to the Court of Appeal, s 397(6)(b) was also inapplicable (at [62]).14 Based on the above, summary dismissal of the Motion under s 397(3B) of the CPC was arguably warranted. The applicant’s application in CM 40 had been summarily refused. The present Motion involved impermissible and unmeritorious challenges to the Judge’s factual findings. The applicant had made similar challenges in CM 24, which were rejected. The three alleged “legal questions” raised by the applicant had established answers. The Motion was the third criminal motion and the fourth challenge to the DJ’s decision. Despite these factors supporting summary dismissal, the court proceeded with the hearing to allow the applicant to explain the basis of his application, bearing in mind the fact that the applicant was unrepresented. As it turned out, the applicant could not offer any justification beyond what had already been contained in his affidavit filed in support of the Motion. The applicant was thus cautioned that if he files further unmeritorious applications, the court may summarily dismiss such applications under s 397(3B) of the CPC without an oral hearing. Significant time and resources have been expended on the applicant’s repeated applications, and further abuses of the court’s processes will not be tolerated (at [63]–[65]).Costs15 The Prosecution sought costs against the applicant. The court is statutorily empowered under s 409 of the CPC to order costs against applicants who file frivolous, vexatious or abusive criminal motions (at [66]).16 In light of how the Motion was an abuse of process, a strong case could be made that costs should be ordered against the applicant. Having considered the circumstances, the court declined to order costs against the applicant. Instead, the court issued a verbal caution to the applicant on the potential costs consequences should he file further ill-advised applications. The applicant, being a layperson, may not have been aware of the costs consequences of unjustified criminal motions. He was not warned specifically by the court, during CM 24 or prior thereto, of the potential adverse costs orders that could be made against him. The court reiterated that the applicant should stop drip-feeding questions via consecutive criminal motions. There is a need to respect the finality of the judicial process. Any future unmeritorious applications may well incur adverse costs consequences (at [67]–[69]).17 While the applicant may not agree with the outcome of his case, he cannot abuse the court’s process by filing applications ad infinitum. Our courts owe a duty to the public; that duty is to apply the law correctly, and to ensure a fair and just outcome in each case. Where litigants are dissatisfied with a decision of the puisne court, they have a right of appeal. The appellate court will do its utmost to scrutinise the lower court’s decision and to ensure that the factual and legal findings made are sustainable. This system of one-tier appeal must be respected, whether or not litigants are pleased with the ultimate decision of the court. There cannot be litigation that continues indefinitely, for that would place an unbearable strain on our legal system and would divert precious resources away from the new cases that arise every day which require attention. Endless protraction of proceedings also serves only to cause further grief for those involved. Time and resources will be needlessly expended, in futile fashion. These are time and resources that could, instead, be used in other meaningful endeavours, and to help parties move on from the bitterness of litigation (at [73]–[74]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
