
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 August 2021Case summaryLoh Der Ming Andrew v Koh Tien Hua [2021] SGCA 81Civil Appeal No 227 of 2019 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) who heard the review application under s 97 of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”). The Court of Appeal set aside the penalty recommended by the Judge, as well as the findings of the Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) that the respondent was not guilty of certain charges. The court instead found that additional charges were made out which constituted cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action under s 83 of the LPA and directed the appellant to make an application under s 98 of the LPA to advance the matter to the Court of Three Judges (“C3J”).Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where a solicitor’s fidelity to his client’s instructions conflicts with his duty to the court not to advance unreasonable or incorrect legal positions, the proper course is for him to communicate frankly and candidly with his client with a view to persuading the latter to change his instructions. Failing that, the solicitor, because of the paramount duty he owes to the court, may have no choice but to discharge himself: at [1], [80].•  A judge hearing a review under s 97 of the LPA may determine any question necessary to be determined for the purpose of doing justice in the case. This extends to assessing the merits of the determinations of the DT. However, the orders that a judge may make following such an assessment or determination are limited to ordering that: the matter be advanced to the C3J; the DT rehear and reinvestigate the matter; or a different DT be established for this purpose: at [32]–[36].Background to the appeal1 The appellant, Andrew Loh Der Ming (“Loh”), engaged the respondent, Koh Tien Hua (“Koh”), to act for him in his divorce proceedings. In the divorce proceedings, Loh was the plaintiff, his wife was the defendant, and a third party whom Loh alleged had committed adultery with his wife was the co-defendant. The co-defendant applied to strike out certain parts of Loh’s Statement of Particulars (“SOP”). At the oral hearing of the striking out application, Koh consented to those particulars being struck out, and to this extent, it was recorded as a consent order. It was disputed whether Koh had been authorised to consent to this in the exercise of his professional judgment. Koh did not at that stage inform Loh that the particulars had been struck out by consent or that a consent order cannot ordinarily be appealed. With much reluctance on Koh’s part, after considerable delay, and purely because of Loh’s insistence, Koh eventually filed the appeal. Loh subsequently discovered what had transpired at the hearing.2 Loh then lodged a complaint against Koh. The matter progressed along the stages of the LPA disciplinary framework, eventually reaching the DT. Loh brought a total of 14 charges against Koh, arising out of seven alleged acts. Two charges were brought in respect of each alleged wrongful act, one under s 83(2)(b) of the LPA for “fraudulent or grossly improper conduct in the discharge of his professional duty” and one under s 83(2)(h) of the LPA for “misconduct unbefitting an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the Supreme Court or as a member of an honourable profession”.3 The DT found Koh guilty of only the Fourth and Sixth charges and recommended a penalty of $10,000. Dissatisfied, Loh filed a review application under s 97 of the LPA to the High Court. The Judge found that the Eighth and Tenth charges were also made out and substituted the DT’s recommendation of a $10,000 penalty with her own recommendation of a $12,500 penalty. However, like the DT, she did not think that there was cause of sufficient gravity to advance the matter to the C3J. Loh appealed. The Court of Appeal’s decision4 The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal at the close of the oral hearing, and subsequently issued written grounds of decision. 5 A judge hearing a review under s 97 of the LPA may determine any question necessary to be determined for the purpose of doing justice in the case. This extends to assessing the merits of the determinations of the DT. However, the orders that a judge may make following such an assessment or determination are limited to ordering that: the matter be advanced to the C3J; the DT rehear and reinvestigate the matter; or a different DT be established for this purpose: at [32]–[36].6 The Judge’s order which substituted the DT’s recommended penalty with her own recommended penalty of $12,500 was set aside as it exceeded her powers under s 97 of the LPA: at [37].7 The Seventh and Eighth charges alleged that Koh consented to the striking out of the particulars in Loh’s SOP, contrary to the instructions he received from Loh. The Seventh charge was under s 83(2)(b) of the LPA while the Eighth charge was under s 83(2)(h) of the LPA. The DT erred in finding that Koh did not act contrary to Loh’s instructions, as it had considered several irrelevant matters and failed to take into account a number of relevant matters. It was clear from various emails that Loh had wanted his pleadings to remain in the SOP as far as possible, and that Koh had entered into the consent order contrary to Loh’s instructions. This constituted the Eighth charge in that a reasonable person would have said without hesitation that a solicitor should not act contrary to his client’s express instructions as Koh had done. However, the Seventh charge was not made out because, seen in the totality of the circumstances, Koh’s conduct did not constitute fraudulent or grossly improper conduct: at [39]–[49].8 The Ninth and Tenth charges alleged that Koh had deliberately and/or intentionally concealed from Loh that consent orders had been entered into at the striking out hearing. The Ninth charge was under s 83(2)(b) of the LPA while the Tenth charge was under s 83(2)(h) of the LPA. The DT erred in finding that the charges were not made out because it was clear from the evidence that Koh had intentionally concealed from Loh that he had entered into a consent order. The DT had again taken into account various irrelevant considerations and failed to consider various relevant facts. Koh’s act of intentionally concealing from Loh that he had entered into a consent order constituted the Ninth charge in that it was grossly improper. The essence of such concealment was to deceive and mislead Loh, who was Koh’s client, as to what had transpired in the conduct of Loh’s matter: at [50]–[71].9 The court ordered Loh to apply under s 98 of the LPA for the matter to be advanced to the C3J, as it was satisfied that there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action to be taken against Koh pursuant to s 83 of the LPA. First, Koh did not commit a one-off error but had committed multiple misdeeds resulting in multiple charges. Second, a fine is not generally appropriate where the regulated legal practitioner’s conduct goes beyond mere inadvertence. Third, Koh was a senior member of the Bar and this aggravated the gravity of his actions as the more senior the offending solicitor is, the greater the damage done to the standing of the legal profession: [72]–[78].10 While a solicitor is not obliged to comply with every one of his client’s unreasonable instructions, where a client instructs the solicitor to take a position that the solicitor considers to be untenable or that he is unwilling to take for good reason, the course open to the solicitor is to make his position known to the client with an explanation of why he takes that position. If, despite this, the client insists on that course, the solicitor should discharge himself. What he cannot do in such circumstances, is to go ahead and act contrary to his client’s instructions: [80].11 Loh was not awarded costs for the appeal as he conducted the appeal on his own. However, the court granted him an order for reasonable disbursements incurred in the appeal, to be taxed if not agreed upon. Likewise, Loh was granted an order for reasonable disbursements in CA/SUM 5/2020 (“SUM 5”), which was Koh’s application to strike out the Notice of Appeal. However, no costs were awarded to Loh in respect of SUM 5 because his counsel had been of no assistance to the court. Finally, Loh was not awarded any costs or disbursements for CA/SUM 35/2020, which was Loh’s application for an extension of time to file a reply affidavit in SUM 5. This application was only necessitated by Loh’s counsel’s failure to file Loh’s reply affidavit on time, through no fault of Koh: at [91] to [97].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
