
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 August 2021Case summaryCheung Teck Cheong Richard and others v LVND Investments Pte Ltd [2021] SGCA 77 Civil Appeal No 204 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA allows the appeal, finding that there was no arbitration agreement between the parties and lifting the stay on the suit. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Section 4(6) of the Arbitration Act (Cap 10, 2002 Rev Ed) (“AA”) only had the effect of deeming an existing arbitration agreement to be formally valid and therefore effective despite not being in writing. It did not have the effect of deeming there to be an agreement between the parties when such an agreement did not otherwise exist, nor did it deem any such agreement to meet the definition of s 4(1) of the AA if it did not otherwise satisfy the requirements stated therein: at [121].Introduction1 This was an appeal by purchasers of shop units in a mall (“the Appellants”) against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) upholding the Assistant Registrar’s (“AR’s”) decision to grant a stay of the suit that the Appellants had brought against the developer of the mall, LVND Investments Pte Ltd (“the Developer”). Background to the appeal2 The Appellants had purchased various shop units in the mall from the Developer under various Sale and Purchase Agreements (“SPAs”). They subsequently alleged that the Developer had misled them into purchasing those shop units and that the units they purchased were smaller than the area that each of them had believed it was buying.3 When the disputes first arose, the Appellants had engaged a law firm (the “Former Solicitors”) who advised them to commence arbitration proceedings. They took the view that cl 20A.1 of the SPAs (which was identical in each SPA) was an arbitration agreement. On 6 May 2019, the Former Solicitors issued a Notice of Arbitration (“the 1st NOA”) against the Developer to commence arbitration under the auspices of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”). The Developer’s solicitors issued 12 responses objecting to the proposed arbitration. On 19 June 2019, the Court of Arbitration of the SIAC found that the parties had not agreed that the SIAC should administer the arbitrations or that the SIAC Rules should apply, and accordingly terminated the arbitration purportedly commenced by the 1st NOA (“the 1st Attempted Arbitration”). 4 On 28 June 2019, the Appellants’ Former Solicitors issued a second Notice of Arbitration (“the 2nd NOA”), for the disputes to be referred to an ad hoc arbitration in Singapore and nominating a sole arbitrator. The Developer objected to this attempt to commence a single ad hoc arbitration. Further correspondence followed. The Appellants then wrote to the President of the Court of Arbitration of the SIAC seeking appointment of a single arbitrator. The Developer objected, claiming that no ad hoc arbitration had been validly commenced, and in any event, any arbitration would have to be 12 different ad hoc arbitrations. The Appellants then took different legal advice and in February 2020 notified the SIAC that they did not wish to continue with the arbitration purportedly commenced by the 2nd NOA (“the 2nd Attempted Arbitration”). 5 On 4 March 2020, the Appellants filed a suit in the High Court claiming rescission of the SPAs or damages in lieu of rescission, as well as damages for any and all losses, costs and expenses suffered as a result of entering into the SPAs. On 25 March 2020, the Developer filed an application seeking a stay of the suit. The AR found that cl 20A.1 of the SPAs was not an arbitration agreement but that the parties had entered into a separate arbitration agreement by their conduct, and ordered a stay of the suit under s 6 of the AA. The parties filed cross-appeals against the AR’s decision.  6 The Judge held, dismissing the Developer’s appeal, that cl 20A.1 was not an arbitration agreement as defined by s 4(1) of the AA. However, he also dismissed the Appellants’ appeal, finding that the parties had entered into a separate arbitration agreement by their conduct and correspondence, and also expressing the view that s 4(6) of the AA applied to deem there to be an arbitration agreement between the parties. He found no reason to decline to stay the suit, and upheld the grant of the stay in favour of arbitration proceedings.  Decision on appeal7 The Appellants appealed to the Court of Appeal. They submitted that they had not entered into a separate arbitration agreement and that s 4(6) of the AA did not have the effect of deeming an arbitration agreement to exist between the parties. In the alternative, if there was an arbitration agreement, it was vitiated by mistake. In the further alternative, the facts warranted an exercise of discretion not to stay the suit. Whether cl 20A.1 was an arbitration agreement8 The court first affirmed the Judge’s view that cl 20A.1 was not an arbitration agreement, as it did not require the parties to submit the dispute to arbitration and remained neutral as to what dispute resolution mechanism was to be used after mediation was considered: at [32]. Whether the parties had entered into a separate arbitration agreement9 Having found that cl 20A.1 was not an arbitration agreement, the court then considered whether the parties could be taken to have entered into an arbitration agreement independently of cl 20A.1. The question of whether there was a legally enforceable agreement was one of contract law, specifically, contract formation. The standard to be applied in such a case was the prima facie standard of review: at [34] and [35]. 10 The dispute in this case raised the question of whether the parties had proceeded simply on what they believed to be a prior arbitration agreement in cl 20A.1 of the SPAs, or whether they had agreed, independently of that clause, to submit the disputes to arbitration. In other words, if the parties had believed that they were acting in accordance with an existing contractual obligation, could they be taken to intend to enter into a separate contract by that same conduct? As a general principle, the answer should be in the negative, unless the evidence discloses an intention by the parties to be bound by a separate and independent agreement: at [36] to [44].11 Therefore, the court took the following approach. At each stage, the court considered whether the parties had acted exclusively on the assumption that cl 20A.1 was an arbitration agreement. If so, the court then considered whether there was nevertheless evidence of an agreement to add terms or depart from what cl 20A.1 of the SPAs already provided, such that it could be said that the parties were intending to enter into an agreement apart from cl 20A.1: at [45].12 On the facts of this case, the court found that the parties had all times acted exclusively on the assumption that cl 20A.1 was an arbitration agreement, in both the 1st and 2nd Attempted Arbitrations: at [47] to [50], and [56] to [60]. 13 The 1st NOA, however, was an offer to arbitrate independently of cl 20A.1 of the SPAs, as there was an offer to arbitrate in an arbitration (a) administered by the SIAC; (b) conducted by a single arbitrator; (c) conducted in accordance with the SIAC Rules; and (d) which consolidated all the disputes into a single arbitration. The Appellants also nominated a sole arbitrator. These were terms apart from cl 20A.1 as cl 20A.1 did not mention any of these terms. The court rejected the Developer’s submission that this was an unconditional offer to arbitrate coupled with terms to be considered: at [52] and [53].14 This offer was, however, rejected by the Developer, as indicated in its responses to the 1st NOA : at [54]. 15 For similar reasons as above, the court found that the 2nd NOA contained an offer to arbitrate, in which the Appellants proposed that the disputes were to be resolved in a single arbitration conducted by a single arbitrator. Even if the Appellants later took the position that the issue of consolidation was to be considered by the arbitral tribunal, this was at least an offer to submit the dispute to a single arbitrator, with the tribunal having the power to consider consolidating the disputes and to make the necessary orders: at [61].16 However, this conditional offer was clearly rejected by the Developer: at [62] to [64]. Whether s 4(6) of the AA deemed there to be an arbitration agreement17 The court found that there were three requirements for s 4(6) of the AA to apply. First, as a threshold requirement, s 4(6) only applied in the context of “any arbitral or legal proceedings”. Second, there must be an assertion of the existence of an arbitration agreement in a pleading, statement of case, or any other document in circumstances in which the assertion calls for a reply. Third, the assertion must not be denied by the other party. If these three requirements are met, then “there shall be deemed to be an effective arbitration agreement as between the parties to the proceedings”: at [68].18 In the first place, the court found that the threshold requirement that s 4(6) only applies in “any arbitral or legal proceedings” was not satisfied in this case. Even if the phrase could not be taken to refer only to valid proceedings, it was clear in the present case that there were no arbitration proceedings to speak of, valid or otherwise. In both the 1st and 2nd Attempted Arbitrations, no substantive steps were taken and the matters ended with both parties at loggerheads on whether arbitration had even been validly commenced: at [69].19 Turning to the second requirement, the court also found that there was no assertion of an arbitration agreement in this case. In the context of s 4 of the AA, the phrase “arbitration agreement” had to have the meaning given to it in s 4(1) of the AA. As cl 20A.1 was not an arbitration agreement, the assertion of cl 20A.1 could not satisfy this requirement: at [70].20 The central issue concerning s 4(6) of the AA concerned the deeming effect of the provision. As cl 20A.1 of the SPAs was not an arbitration agreement and there was no arbitration agreement independent of that clause, s 4(6) had to be examined on the basis that there was no arbitration agreement between the parties: at [73].21 The court adopted the purposive approach identified in Tan Cheng Bock v Attorney-General [2017] 2 SLR 850: at [74].22 There were two possible interpretations advanced. The broad view was that s 4(6) deemed there to be an agreement, that the agreement satisfied the requirements of s 4(1) of the AA, and that the agreement was formally valid. The narrow view was that s 4(6) only deemed an arbitration agreement (established independently of s 4(6)) was formally valid for the purposes of the AA: at [77].23 After examining the legislative history, the court found that s 4(6) of the AA only had the effect of deeming an existing arbitration agreement to be formally valid and therefore effective despite not being in writing. It did not have the effect of deeming there to be an agreement between the parties when such an agreement did not otherwise exist, nor did it deem any such agreement to meet the definition of s 4(1) of the AA if it did not otherwise satisfy the requirements stated therein: at [121].Whether the Appellants were estopped from denying the existence of an arbitration agreement24 The Appellants were not estopped from denying the existence of an arbitration agreement. The only representation or assumption made in the course of the 1st and 2nd Attempted Arbitrations was that cl 20A.1 was a valid arbitration agreement, not, more generally, that the parties had a valid arbitration agreement irrespective of the source of that agreement. At highest, any estoppel would have been only to prevent the Appellants from denying that cl 20A.1 was not an arbitration agreement, but this was not an estoppel relevant to the appeal: at [133].25 In any event, no detrimental reliance was proved and it was not unconscionable for the Appellants to be allowed to resile from any representation that there was a valid arbitration agreement. No steps were ever taken in any purported arbitration, and the expenses incurred were to dispute the assertions made by the Appellants. This was not sufficient to establish detrimental reliance: at [134].Conclusion26 In the absence of any arbitration agreement between the parties or an estoppel preventing the Appellants from disputing the existence of such an agreement, there was no basis for a stay of the Suit under s 6(1) of the AA: at [135].27 The appeal was allowed with costs and the stay on the Suit was lifted: at [136] and [139]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
