
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 August 2021Case summaryUnited Securities Sdn Bhd (in receivership and liquidation) and another v United Overseas Bank Ltd [2021] SGCA 78Civil Appeal No 10 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal against the decision of the High Court in which the High Court declined to grant a stay of proceedings under the UNCITRAL Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency (30 May 1997) (“Model Law”), given the force of law in Singapore via s 252 of the Insolvency Restructuring and Dissolution Act (Act 40 of 2018). Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal sets out the principles relevant to the grant of a stay of proceedings under Arts 20 and 21 of the Model Law, particularly in the context of claims involving secured creditors (at [32]–[36], [47]). •  The Court of Appeal discusses the cumulative attributes required for a proceeding to constitute a “foreign proceeding” within the meaning of Art 2(h) of the Model Law (at [53]).  Background facts1 The first appellant is United Securities Sdn Bhd (in receivership and liquidation) (“USSB”) and the second appellant is its liquidator. USSB is the beneficial owner of all the issued shares in City Centre Sdn Bhd (in liquidation) (“CCSB”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of USSB. The respondent is United Overseas Bank Ltd (“UOB”), a Singapore bank. 2 On 17 December 1982, USSB entered into a loan agreement (“the Loan Agreement”) with Overseas Union Bank Ltd (“OUB”) for OUB to provide USSB with credit facilities. OUB and USSB also entered into a deed of debenture (“the Debenture”), which created a fixed charge in OUB’s favour over all of USSB’s shares in CCSB (“the CCSB Shares”). Pursuant to the Debenture, the CCSB Shares which were then registered in the name of USSB were subsequently transferred to and registered in the sole name of OUB Nominees (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (subsequently renamed UOB Nominees 2006 (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (“UOB Nominees”)).3 The Loan Agreement and the Debenture were governed by Singapore law, and provided that any legal action or proceeding against USSB with respect to the Loan Agreement and the Debenture may be brought in the Singapore courts. The Loan Agreement also stated that USSB submitted to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Singapore court, and waived any objection to the venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Loan Agreement selected by OUB. 4 On 19 December 1983, USSB defaulted on the loan granted by OUB. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement and Debenture, receivers were appointed over the properties and assets of USSB charged to OUB. In 2002, following OUB’s merger with UOB, UOB took over all of OUB’s interest in the Loan Agreement and the Debenture. 5 A winding-up order against CCSB was made in Malaysia on 25 April 2000. On 30 January 2007, a winding-up order was also made against USSB in Malaysia (“the Malaysian Winding Up Proceeding”). Subsequently, 16 parcels of land belonging to CCSB were sold as part of its winding up, and the remainder of the proceeds of sale after CCSB’s debts were paid formed CCSB’s liquidation surplus (“the Surplus Funds”). 6 For the purposes of distributing the Surplus Funds, CCSB’s liquidators applied for directions as to whether UOB Nominees was the sole and rightful contributory of CCSB. The Malayan High Court answered this question in the affirmative, but its decision was set aside by the Malaysian Court of Appeal, on the basis that the form of the application had not been appropriate for the determination of the ownership of the CCSB Shares. UOB Nominees’ application for leave to appeal to the Malaysian Federal Court was dismissed. 7 Subsequently, parallel proceedings were commenced in Malaysia and Singapore concerning the issue of UOB’s and USSB’s rights and obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Debenture. In Malaysia, this took the form of a writ action commenced in the High Court in Malaya by USSB against UOB, UOB Nominees, CCSB and CCSB’s liquidators (“the Malaysian Writ Action”). In Singapore, UOB commenced HC/OS 414/2020 (“OS 414”). 8 Following the commencement of OS 414, UOB applied to the High Court in Malaya for a stay of the Malaysian Writ Action, on the basis that Malaysia was not the appropriate forum. Meanwhile, in Singapore, the appellants filed, among other applications, HC/OS 780/2020 (“OS 780”) seeking the court’s recognition of the Malaysian Winding Up Proceeding and the Malaysian Writ Action as “foreign main proceedings” or “foreign non-main proceedings” under the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency (30 May 1997) (“the Model Law”), given the force of law in Singapore via s 252 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act (Act 40 of 2018). Consequent to such recognition, the appellants further sought a stay of OS 414 pursuant to Arts 20 and/or 21 of the Model Law as enacted in Singapore (“the SG Model Law”). Prior to the hearing of OS 780, UOB’s application for a stay of the Malaysian Writ Action was dismissed by the High Court in Malaya which held that Malaysia was the appropriate forum. UOB appealed against this decision to the Malaysian Court of Appeal.9 The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) dismissed OS 780. The Judge held that the Malaysian Winding Up Proceeding had to be recognised as a “foreign main proceeding” under the SG Model Law, but that the Malaysian Writ Action was not entitled to recognition as such or as a “foreign non-main proceeding”. Furthermore, the Judge held that no stay under Art 20 of the SG Model Law operated in respect of OS 414, and declined to grant any discretionary stay under Art 21 of the SG Model Law. Dissatisfied, the appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision. 10 Shortly before the hearing of the appeal against the Judge’s decision, the Malaysian Court of Appeal allowed UOB’s appeal in respect of the appropriate forum, holding that Singapore was the more appropriate forum. As a result, the Malaysian Writ Action was stayed. The appellants applied for leave to appeal to the Federal Court of Malaysia, which was still pending at the time of the hearing of the present appeal. The Court of Appeal’s decision 11 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) held that it was not feasible to hold over the hearing of the appeal until the Malaysian Federal Court delivered its decision on the appropriate forum issue. The appellants were asking the Court to delay the hearing of the appeal, and in turn the hearing of OS 414, for an indeterminate period of time to await an uncertain outcome that was unlikely to affect the appeal in any event. There was no reason to do so: at [27]. 12 Article 20(1) of the SG Model Law provided that upon recognition of a foreign main proceeding, an automatic stay and suspension arose in respect of certain actions, proceedings and rights. However, Art 20(2) delineated the ambit of any such stay or suspension by making it the same as would have been available under Singapore law had the debtor been wound up in Singapore. Furthermore, Art 20(3) of the SG Model Law provided certain exceptions to the stay and suspension arising under Art 20(1): at [32], [34]–[36].13 Given the Judge’s holding that the Malaysian Winding Up Proceeding was a foreign main proceeding, the single critical issue on appeal was whether a stay of OS 414 ought to be granted under the SG Model Law. In this regard, OS 414 fell within the scope of the automatic stay arising under Art 20(1)(a) of the SG Model Law, as it was a proceeding “concerning the debtor’s property, rights, obligations or liabilities”. However, if USSB had been wound up in Singapore, leave would readily be granted to secured creditors to proceed with enforcing their security, notwithstanding any stay of proceedings that arose upon its winding up. In this case, as UOB was prima facie a secured creditor, the Court granted leave to UOB to proceed with OS 414 notwithstanding the recognition of the Malaysian Winding Up Proceeding and the automatic stay arising therefrom: at [30]–[31], [37]–[39], [44].14 There was no reason to grant a discretionary stay of OS 414 under Art 21 of the SG Model Law. Given that UOB was prima facie a secured creditor, so that its security was regarded as standing apart from the pool of assets available for pari passu distribution amongst unsecured creditors, the grant of a discretionary stay was not necessary to protect the property of USSB or the interests of the creditors: at [47]. 15 There were at least four cumulative attributes required for a proceeding to constitute a “foreign proceeding” under the SG Model Law: (a) the proceeding must involve creditors collectively; (b) the proceeding must have its basis in a law relating to insolvency; (c) the court must exercise control or supervision of the property and affairs of the debtor in the proceeding; and (d) the purpose of the proceeding must be the debtor’s reorganisation or liquidation: at [53]. 16 The Malaysian Writ Action bore none of these attributes. First, it was not a collective proceeding. It did not contemplate the consideration and eventual treatment of the rights, obligations and claims of USSB’s creditors generally, and did not concern substantially all of USSB’s assets and liabilities. Second, the law on which the Malaysian Writ Action was based did not relate to insolvency. Third, the Malaysian Writ Action did not involve the Malayan High Court’s control or supervision of USSB’s property and affairs. The court’s role was simply to determine the issues disputed between the parties. Finally, the purpose of the Malaysian Writ Action was not USSB’s reorganisation or liquidation, but to determine the parties’ rights, obligations and liabilities under the Loan Agreement and Debenture, and consequently, the parties’ entitlement to the Surplus Funds. Therefore, the Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s decision not to recognise the Malaysian Writ Action as a foreign proceeding under Art 17 of the SG Model Law, whether as a foreign main proceeding or a foreign non-main proceeding: at [54], [62], [66], [70], [75]–[76].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
