
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 August 2021Case SummaryTOF v TOE [2021] SGCA 80Civil Appeal No 193 of 2020------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Woo Bih Li JAD): Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses the husband’s appeal, upholding the High Court Judge’s (“the Judge”) decision on custody, care and control, and maintenance. The Judge’s decision on division of matrimonial assets was also upheld but for different reasons.Pertinent and significant point of the judgmentWhen dividing matrimonial assets, the court may rely on ordinary inferences drawn from an assessment of the evidence and these are different from adverse inferences which are a response to culpable behaviour, usually in the form of concealment.Background and proceedings below1. The wife is a Korean homemaker who last worked as an air stewardess about 20 years ago, while the husband is a former fund manager from the United Kingdom (“UK”). They have one 11-year-old son. The parties were granted interim judgment (a provisional order of divorce, granted before courts address ancillary matters such as maintenance, custody, care and control of the children and the division of matrimonial assets) on 9 December 2019, bringing their 19 year long marriage to an end.2. After hearing parties on the ancillary matters, the High Court judge (“the Judge”) granted:i. the wife sole care and control of the child (with access rights for the husband on certain days of the week and during half of the child’s holidays);ii. a lump sum of $4,000,000 in full and final settlement of the division of matrimonial assets;iii. an order that the husband return the wife her personal belongings (jewellery, accessories, paintings, handbags and clothes);iv. an order that the husband return the wife half of the furniture and kitchenware that she bought from Korea and Japan;v. monthly maintenance of $5,000 for the wife;vi. monthly maintenance of $4,100 for the child and an order that the husband pay for the child’s schooling activities, enrichment/tuition classes, premiums on insurance policies and medical and dental expenses; andvii. no order as to costs.3.  Specifically, on the issue of division of matrimonial assets, the Judge remarked that his task had been greatly complicated by the husband’s persistent failure to disclose the full extent of the assets within his possession. The Judge eventually identified certain assets as belonging to the matrimonial pool of assets but did not ascribe a value to them. Instead, he drew adverse inferences from the husband’s failure to make full and frank disclosure, adopted the wife’s suggested apportionment of the assets (36.5:63.5 in the husband’s favour), and ultimately concluded that the wife was entitled to $4m without making any reference to the value of the matrimonial assets or applying the share percentage of 36.5%. The court’s decision4. The court found that there was no reason to disturb the Judge’s award of sole care and control to the wife. The parties had lived in separate countries since October 2020. The only practical option in the circumstances was to award sole care and control to one of the parents. Moreover, shared care and control was not feasible as the parties had shown that they were not able to meaningfully co-parent, even when they were both resident in the same country. In coming to his conclusion, the Judge had considered all the relevant material, including a child representative report which noted that the child preferred to stay in Singapore, and had observed that the husband was more recriminatory than the wife. He had also interviewed the child. Though his observations were made in a separate set of interlocutory proceedings, he was entitled to rely on them (as he did) in awarding sole care and control to the wife (at [35] and [38] – [45]).5. The court found that there was no reason to disturb the Judge’s award of spousal and child maintenance either. The husband was capable of supporting himself, the wife and the child. The documentary evidence produced by the husband asserting his alleged impecuniosity was contradicted by his spending habits and lifestyle patterns, and this contradiction was not addressed by the husband in the appeal (at [55]).6. As for the division of matrimonial assets, the court found that the Judge had erred in his approach. The Judge, after identifying each matrimonial asset, should have attempted to ascribe a value based on whatever little evidence he had before him and reach a tentative aggregate amount. The Judge could then have added to that tentative aggregate an uplift in view of the adverse inferences he was drawing from the husband’s failure to make full and frank disclosure of his assets. If he had applied an uplift, he should then have specified what the uplift was in percentage or absolute terms (at [78]).7. The court identified and ascertained the value of the matrimonial assets based on the available evidence and using ordinary inferences drawn from an assessment of the evidence. The court valued the total pool of matrimonial assets at $14,609,600.32 (at [81] – [137]). 8. The court found that as this was a single-income marriage spanning about 19 years, the appropriate approach to take for asset division was that adopted in TNL v TNK and another appeal and another matter [2017] 1 SLR 609, namely, that courts would generally tend toward an equal division of assets. Applying that approach, the net figure which the wife would be entitled to would be more than the $4m that the Judge granted the wife. Likewise, if the Judge’s 36.5% had been applied to the total value of the matrimonial assets, the net figure would still be more than $4m. This would be the case even without applying any uplift to the value of the assets or to the percentage apportioned to the wife, arising from an adverse inference being drawn against the husband for failure to make full and frank disclosure of his assets and/or the value thereof. In the circumstances, the court found no reason to reduce the quantum awarded by the Judge and therefore upheld the Judge’s decision to order the husband to pay the wife $4m, but for different reasons (at [138] – [139]). 9. The court also saw no reason to disturb the Judge’s order for the husband to return the wife her personal belongings (jewellery, accessories, paintings, handbags and clothes) and to return half of the furniture and kitchenware that she bought from Korea and Japan (at [140]). This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
