
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 August 2021Case SummaryU Myo Nyunt @ Michael Nyunt v First Property Holdings Pte Ltd [2021] SGCA 73Civil Appeal No 176 of 2020 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of the Appellate Division Belinda Ang Saw Ean):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses CA 176/2020, finding that the equities of the case pointed overwhelmingly against setting aside an interlocutory default judgment and a further judgment on assessment of damages against the appellant.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  When an application is made to set aside both an interlocutory default judgment pursuant to O 13 r 8 and a judgment on assessment of damages pursuant to O 35 r 2 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”), it would be incomplete and artificial to focus on the O 13 judgment without looking at the subsequent events that led to the O 35 judgment, and vice versa, because the court’s discretionary power is to be exercised by reference to all the circumstances of the case (at [48], [52]).•  When an application is to set aside two judgments pursuant to both O 13 r 8 and O 35 r 2 of the ROC, the court’s discretionary power to set aside under both procedural rules would be considered concurrently. This means embarking on a two-stage balancing exercise: (a) identify and assess the seriousness and significance of the defaults and reasons behind the procedural breaches; and (b) balance the considerations in (a) against all the other relevant factors, keeping in mind two competing interests, namely finality in litigation on the one hand, and the interest of justice to prevent a miscarriage of justice that may be occasioned if the relief sought is not granted on the other (at [74]).Background to the appeals1 The parties entered into a joint venture agreement dated 1996 (“JVA”) for the development of property in Myanmar through a Myanmar-incorporated company (“Company”). Pursuant to a debenture (“Debenture”) between the respondent and the Company, the former agreed to lend the latter US$7.6. Pursuant to a loan agreement (“Loan Agreement”) between the respondent and the appellant, the former agreed to lend the latter up to US$850,000.2  The respondent claimed that it invested the sum of US$7.6m pursuant to the Debenture (“the US$7.6m Payment”), and the US$585,000 Payment pursuant to the Loan Agreement (collectively, “the Investment Money”). The appellant refuted the claim and argued that no such funds ever came from the respondent, and further that the Central Bank of Myanmar had rejected the Company’s application for approval to receive and pay back (up to the maximum) loan amount of US$850,000.3  Disputes occurred between the parties over two property projects in Natmauk Lane (“Natmauk Property”) and Tamwe Township (“Tarmway Plaza”). The respondent claimed that these projects were funded using the Investment Money, yet the appellant misappropriated these projects for his own benefits. The respondent commenced various proceedings in Myanmar in 2003 and 2004 in respect of the two projects, without success.4 The respondent commenced an action in Singapore against the appellant in 2015. An order granting leave to serve out of jurisdiction (“the Service Order”) to Australia, where the appellant resided, was issued in the later parts of 2015. The appellant did not enter appearance, and default judgment was entered against the appellant in 2016 (“January default judgment”). Part of the January default judgment provided for further damages to be assessed (“Interlocutory Judgment”). A further hearing on assessment of damage took place, which the appellant again did not take part in. Following the assessment hearing, a judgment on assessment of damage was issued (“Assessment Judgment”), finding the appellant liable for some $66m.5 The respondent then registered the January default judgment and the Assessment Judgment (collectively, the “Singapore judgments”) in Australia, the appellant’s place of residence, in 2017. The appellant challenged the registration, but failed. 6 The appellant then turned to the Singapore High Court in 2019 to set aside the Service Order and the Singapore judgments. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) set aside the part of the January default judgment for a specified amount of a loan from the respondent to the appellant. However, the Judge refused to set aside the Service Order, Interlocutory Judgment and the Assessment Judgment. Decision below7 The Judge found that the predominant, if not sole, reason for the appellant’s decision not to participate in the Singapore proceedings was based on advice that the respondent would not be able to enforce a judgment of the Singapore courts against him in Myanmar. It was after he failed in his challenge of the registration of the Singapore judgments in Australia that he decided to defend the Singapore proceedings. The Judge described the appellant’s earlier decision not to participate in the Singapore proceedings as “deliberate”, and his delay as “inordinate … deliberate and contumelious.” 8 The Judge noted that the Assessment Judgment was entered after a trial and that the reason for the appellant’s absence at the assessment hearing was the predominant consideration. He also noted that the countervailing factors had to be very compelling to tilt the balance in favour of setting aside the judgment. The Judge opined that he would adopt the same approach in considering the application to set aside the Interlocutory Judgment even though it was entered in default of appearance (ie, without a trial). On that basis, the deliberate, contumelious and inexcusable delay on the appellant’s part in applying to set aside was fatal to his setting aside application. 9 The Judge also found that the Service Order was properly issued. The Judge opined that the same approach taken with respect to the application to set aside the Assessment Judgment applied to the application to set aside the Service Order. Further, the findings on the merits in relation to the setting aside application of the January default judgment could be extended to the Service Order.The Court of Appeal’s decision 10 The Court had some reservations with the Judge’s approach that tended to equate the question of merits in relation to the January default judgment with that of the Service Order. In the context of the Service Order, the burden was on the respondent-plaintiff to satisfy that the claims were sufficiently meritorious. In contrast, the question of merits in relation to the setting aside of the January default judgment looks at the appellant-defendant’s perspective, ie, whether the defences were sufficiently meritorious. The Judge’s approach shifted the burden of proof. Nevertheless, despite these observations, the Judge did apply established principles concerning the grant of leave. The Judge was justified in finding that the preconditions to the grant of the Service Order were satisfied (at [45] – [46]).11 The appellant applied to set aside not one, but two judgments in the same application (ie, the Interlocutory Judgment and the Assessment Judgment). The setting aside of the Interlocutory Judgment was governed by O 13 r 8, while the setting aside of the Assessment Judgment was governed by O 35 r 2 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”). In considering both procedures, the court must look at the entirety of the evidence. It would be incomplete and artificial to focus on the Interlocutory Judgment without looking at the subsequent events that led to the Assessment Judgment, and vice versa, because the court’s discretionary power is to be exercised by reference to all the circumstances of the case (at [48], [52]).12 When an application is to set aside two judgments pursuant to both O 13 r 8 and O 35 r 2 of the ROC, the court’s discretionary power to set aside under both procedural rules would be considered concurrently. This means embarking on a two-stage balancing exercise: (a) identify and assess the seriousness and significance of the defaults and reasons behind the procedural breaches; and (b) balance the considerations in (a) against all the other relevant factors, keeping in mind two competing interests, namely finality in litigation on the one hand, and the interest of justice to prevent a miscarriage of justice that may be occasioned if the relief sought is not granted on the other (at [74]).13 On the facts, the appellant’s procedural breaches in failing to enter appearance and participate at the assessment hearing, were deliberate and part of his litigation strategy. This alone would be a strong factor for the court not to exercise its discretion to set aside the Singapore judgments. Further, the appellant was also running parallel proceedings in Myanmar to undermine the Singapore proceedings. His overall conduct was inexcusable (at [86] – [87]).14 Further, the application to set aside was brought three and a half years after the January default judgment was obtained in January 2016, and three years after the Assessment Judgment was obtained in November 2016. In all the circumstances, it was difficult not to conclude that the delay in applying to set aside the judgments was the result of a conscious decision by the appellant, to stay away from the Singapore proceedings and the Singapore judgments for as long as possible (at [89], [92]).15 In any event, while there were merits to the defence, the appellant ought to have canvassed the merits in accordance with the rules of the court and not at his whim and preference as to timing. The appellant had consciously allowed so much more water to flow under the bridge that it would be wrong to let him ignore reality and come back to make his case to this court that he should be viewed as someone who just happened to let a procedural failure get past him (at [101]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
