
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE30 July 2021Case SummarySIC/S 5/2021 (Summons No 24 of 2021)Mohamed Shiyam v Tuff Offshore Engineering Services Pte Ltd [2021] SGHC(I) 8----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Roger Giles IJ):Outcome: The SICC gave leave to amend the statement of claim in one respect but dismissed the application to join additional defendants. Background1 The plaintiff, Mohamed Shiyam, is a United Kingdom resident in the business of consultancy for infrastructure projects around the world. The defendant, Tuff Offshore Engineering Services Pte Ltd, is a Singaporean company involved in the design and construction of infrastructure projects. Directors and shareholders in the company at the relevant times were variously Mr Ganesh Paulraj (“Mr Ganesh”), Mr Natarajan Paulraj (“Mr Paul”), and Ms Mahalakshmi d/o Mahalingham (“Ms Maha”). 2 The plaintiff filed a suit in the General Division of the High Court of Singapore, claiming money due under two contracts with the defendant. The defendant denied that it owed anything to the plaintiff. The suit was transferred to the Singapore International Commercial Court on 11 March 2021. At a Case Management Conference held on 23 April 2021, the plaintiff indicated that he would seek to amend his statement of claim to add Mr Ganesh, Mr Paul and Ms Maha (“the proposed defendants”) to the action. The application was heard on 24 June 2021. At the hearing the proposed defendants were also present and represented by counsel for the defendant (collectively referred to as “the respondents”).3 The plaintiff had provided his services to the defendant towards obtaining contracts for construction projects in the Maldives from the government entity “Regional Airports”, relevantly airport construction projects termed “the Nine Airports Project” and “the Maafaru Airport Project”. In December 2017 they agreed on the plaintiff’s remuneration, in two documents “the Contract” and “the Further Contract”. In the suit, the plaintiff sued on the two documents as providing for payment of commission of US$13m payable to him as a result of the awarding and performance of the Maafaru Airport Project. The defendant denied that anything was payable, contending that the Contract and the Further Contract had provided for payment of commission in relation to the Nine Airports Project, not the Maafaru Airport Project, and that (as was the case) it had not been successful in obtaining the Nine Airports Project, which Regional Airports had not proceeded with. It said that the document said by the plaintiff to be the Contract, although its second page bore Mr Ganesh’s signature, was a forgery in its first page which tied it to the Maafaru Airport Project.4 The defendant did pay US$215,000 on an invoice for US$2m received in January 2018, as what it considered reasonable remuneration for the plaintiff’s work in relation to the Maafaru Airport Project. The plaintiff said that the invoice was for further work done, but nonetheless treated the US$215,000 as a credit against his claim under the Contract and the Further Contract.The Material Facts5 The application engaged principles of amendment under O 20 r 5(1) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”). It also engaged principles of joinder, which involved O 110 r 9(1) of the ROC which in turn required the principles under O 15 rr 4 or 6 to be fulfilled. 6 The plaintiff applied for leave in the respects:(a) first, a minor amendment to paragraph 14 of the existing statement of claim (“the Payment Amendment”);(b) secondly, joinder of the proposed defendants and extensive amendments:(i) to support the lifting of the defendant’s corporate veil to impose liability on the proposed defendants under the Contract and the Further Contract (“the Corporate Veil Amendments”); and (ii) to plead that the proposed defendants had conspired by lawful or unlawful means to injure the plaintiff (“the Conspiracy Amendments”).The Court’s grounds of decision7 The Court substantially dismissed the application, only allowing the Payment Amendment.The Payment Amendment8 The Payment Amendment sought to clarify the plaintiff’s position that he was giving credit to the S$215,000 paid by the defendant. Whilst the defendant opposed this amendment, the Court found that there was no good reason for doing so as the fact of payment was undisputed. The Payment Amendment was accordingly allowed: at [25] to [28].The Corporate Veil Amendments9 The plaintiff pleaded at paragraph 17 of the proposed amended Statement of Claim that (a) the proposed defendants were the controlling mind and will of the defendant, and that the defendant was their alter ego; (b) that the defendant was a sham or façade; and (c) that the defendant was used by the proposed defendants to further their improper purposes including to defraud creditors. To support this, the plaintiff pleaded a series of facts from paragraphs 18 to 27 of the proposed amended Statement of Claim. The thrust of the factual allegations was that in 2018 the proposed defendants had diverted funds, including some funds received under the contract for the Maafaru Airport Project, from the defendant to themselves, and from mid-2020 had diverted business opportunities from the defendant to another or others of their companies.10 The Court found that the matters pleaded did not provide a cause of action with some chance of success on any of the three grounds and thus did not allow the plaintiff to join the proposed defendants and amend the statement of claim to plead that the defendant’s corporate veil should be lifted and the proposed defendants be made liable.Alter ego 11 The Court found that the pleaded facts were insufficient to support the ground that the defendant was the alter ego of the proposed defendants. The Court noted that control in of itself is not enough to lift the corporate veil: at [71]. The Court then found that there was insufficient basis in the amendments to regard the defendant as anything other than the real corporate contractor ie, there was no reasonable basis pleaded to show that the proposed defendants made no distinction between themselves and the defendant, treated it as simply carrying on their own business, or did not treat themselves distinctly from the defendant but treated its assets as their own: at [76].Sham or façade12 The Court found that the proposed amendments did not support a sham or façade as nothing in the amendments could reasonably establish that the proposed defendants intended to give the appearance that the defendant was the contractor when they were the real contractor. The defendant was a company with a track record of infrastructure projects and was attempting to secure another project. Thus, it could not reasonably be thought that the proposed defendants were putting up the defendant as the contractor but intending themselves to be the true contractor, or interposing the defendant to incur liabilities but intending to divert funds to themselves: at [61], [65], [69] and [70].Improper purposes13 In submissions, the ground was expressed as where the company is employed to allow a person to evade his legal obligations or commit fraud. The Court observed that the amendment had been expressed in overly wide terms, and that for the corporate veil to be lifted, there should be abuse of the corporate form: at [77] to [78]. The Court then found that there was no question of the defendant being used to evade legal obligations, and that the pleaded diversion of funds and business opportunities did not amount to abuse of the corporate form for the purposes of lifting the corporate veil: at [79] to [80].The Conspiracy Amendments14 The plaintiff pleaded that the proposed defendants had conspired to injure him by lawful and unlawful means, the means being the proposed defendants running down the assets of the defendant to deprive the plaintiff of the amount due under the Contract and the Further Contract. These causes of action relied on the matters pleaded in paragraphs 18 to 27 of the proposed amended Statement of Claim.15 The Court declined to express a view on whether the amendments disclosed reasonable causes of action for conspiracy: at [88]. However, the Court found that joinder should not be allowed under O 15 r 4(1) as there were no common questions of law or fact with the existing dispute, and the rights to relief would not arise out of the same transaction or series of transactions: at [90]. The Court also found that joinder was not necessary under O 15 r 6(2), and that the non-discretionary requirement of the “just and convenient” limb of that Rule was not satisfied because the conspiracy claims did not relate to an existing question or issue between the plaintiff and the defendant: at [92].16 The Court added that even if the non-discretionary requirement had been satisfied, it would not have allowed the joinder in the exercise of the discretion. It was not just and convenient to do so when any relationship with the existing questions or issues between the plaintiff and the defendant would be tangential and the plaintiff might fail in the suit, and if he succeeded the defendant might have sufficient funds to meet the judgment. The better course was to leave the plaintiff to commence a separate action against the proposed defendants: at [93] to [95].Abuse of process17 Although it did not affect the result, the Court dealt with the respondents’ submission that the plaintiff’s application was an abuse of process because the application was manifestly groundless; the plaintiff had misled the court by procuring false evidence and making false statements under oath; and the application had been brought for ulterior motives. The Court found that it would not have refused the application on the ground of abuse of process. Although the application failed, it was not manifestly groundless; the application was not the occasion to go into serious issues of false evidence and forgery which would be part of the dispute if the proposed defendants were joined; and the plaintiff had had proper reason for making the application: at [96] to [100].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
