
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 July 2021Case summaryVKC v VJZ and another  [2021] SGCA 72Civil Appeal No 102 of 2020 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Appellate Division Belinda Ang):Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal in CA 102/2020 and upholds the High Court’s decision to grant an anti-suit injunction against the appellant. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  The anti-suit injunction was granted on the ground that the foreign proceedings were vexatious or oppressive. •  The Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act (Cap 53B, 2002 Rev Ed) (“CRTPA”),  did not permit a non-party to a contract to avail itself of the benefit of an exclusive jurisdiction clause in that contract, unless the contract itself expressly provided to the contrary (at [54]).•  The statutory silence in the CRTPA with regard to exclusive jurisdiction clauses was deliberate because Parliament made a conscious determination to exclude exclusive jurisdiction clauses from the ambit of s 2(1)(b) of the CRTPA (at [59]).•  A review of the legislative history showed that exclusive jurisdiction clauses and arbitration agreements differ from the usual category of terms that fall under s 1(1)(b) of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 (c 31) (UK) (the “UK Act”) (which was the same as s 2(1)(b) of the CRTPA). An arbitration clause in 8 of the UK Act was a procedural right; it was not a substantive right that fell under s 1(1)(b). By the same token, an exclusive jurisdiction clause was not a substantive right within the meaning of s 2(1)(b) of the CRTPA (at [60]).Background to the appeal1 CA 102/2020 arose out of a decision of the High Court Judge (“Judge”), granting an anti-suit injunction against the appellant.  2 The appellant was one of 15 beneficiaries of an estate (“Estate”) pursuant to the last will of the deceased testator (“1995 Will”). The respondents were appointed as the joint and several administrators of the Estate (later varied to joint administrator). The beneficiaries participated in mediation and duly executed a settlement agreement dated 18 April 2018 (“2018 SA”). Clause 19 of the 2018 SA provided for Singapore as the exclusive jurisdiction. Shortly after the 2018 SA was entered into, the respondents applied to court seeking several orders to give effect to their appointment and indemnification in relation to their administration of the Estate in accordance with the terms of the 2018 SA. On 13 June 2019, the respondents published two notices in two newspapers in Indonesia (“Notices”), which, inter alia, invited all creditors or next-of-kin interested in or having claims against the Estate to contact the respondents. 3 The appellant commenced proceedings in Indonesia in respect of these Notices (“Indonesian proceedings”), claiming that the respondents’ act of publishing the Notices directly affected the appellant’s rights as a beneficiary of the Estate. The Indonesian Proceedings appeared to have been commenced on 15 August 2019. 4 At some point in 2019, the beneficiaries undertook further negotiations as to their rights and entitlements under the 2018 SA, culminating in their entering into a new Inheritance Right Settlement Agreement (“IRSA”). By a subsequent order of court, the IRSA replaced the 2018 SA and new administrators were appointed.5 On 7 February 2020, the respondents were provided with a letter of request for international judicial assistance from the registrar for the Central Jakarta District Court, through which the respondents found out about the Indonesian proceedings. On 24 March 2020, the respondents filed their application for an anti-suit injunction to restrain the appellant from taking further steps in relation to the Indonesian proceedings. The Judge granted the respondents’ application on the ground that the Indonesian Proceedings were commenced in breach of cl 19 of the 2018 SA. On appeal, the appellants challenged the Judge’s grant of the anti-suit injunction that was premised on a finding that the respondents, as non-parties, were entitled to the benefit of cl 19. The decision of the Court 6 The Court upheld the grant of the anti-suit injunction on a different ground, namely, that the Indonesian Proceedings were vexatious and oppressive and justified the grant of an anti-suit injunction. To obtain an anti-suit injunction on this ground, it was necessary to establish that (a) Singapore was the natural forum and (b) the pursuit of the foreign proceedings was vexatious or oppressive (at [21], [24]).7 In terms of whether Singapore was the natural forum to determine the dispute, the parties identified the following factors as significant: (a) connections to relevant events and transactions; (b) the place where the tort was committed; and (c) the governing law of the dispute. The respondents’ appointment to administer the Estate, as well as how this administration was going to take place in accordance with the 2018 SA, were rooted in proceedings in Singapore. The subject matter of the Indonesian proceedings could not be treated independently from OSP 3/2019 which was filed in Singapore. The respondents had filed OSP 3/2019 to seek orders to be entitled to administer the Estate, as well as other orders in relation to such administration, and were granted an order under it (“ORC 253”) (at [26], [27] and [29]).8 Whilst the alleged tort was committed in Indonesia as the Notices were published there, the circumstances in the present case reduced the significance of the place of the tort in the determination of the natural forum. The governing law of key aspects in the dispute could rightly be said to be Singapore law. First, although the appellant’s claim in the Indonesian proceedings was for her entitlement under the 1995 Will, there was a question of whether such entitlement still subsisted given what she had agreed to in the 2018 SA. The Singapore court would be the more appropriate court to determine this question. Second, the respondents’ act of publishing the Notices could not be separated from their obligations under the 2018 SA and ORC 253 (at [30], [32] and [33]). 9 The Court found that the appellant’s conduct in litigating in Indonesia was vexatious and oppressive. There was no evidence that the publishing of the Notices had diminished her share in the Estate. Further, the appellant had entered into the IRSA after the commencement of Indonesian proceedings, at which point the 2018 SA was in force. Under the 2018 SA, Family [A] was to be paid a lump sum from the Estate first before Family [B] would be paid. The IRSA reversed the arrangement under the IRSA, such that Family [B] amongst the beneficiaries would be first entitled to a payout before Family [A] (of which the appellant was part) would receive the remainder of the Estate in accordance with the 1995 Will. If the Indonesian Proceedings were bona fide and for her claim to have any basis, she must herself have suffered loss. The logical implication would be that she believed claims arising from the publication of the Notices would result in there being insufficient moneys to satisfy Family [A]’s entitlement under the 2018 SA. That apparent belief was entirely inconsistent with her act of negotiating with the other beneficiaries to enter into the terms of the IRSA (at [45], [46] and [48]).      10 In light of the change in Family [A]’s entitlement under the IRSA, her conduct in insisting on the continuation of the Indonesian Proceedings was unconscionable. Separately, as the Judge noted, the appellant did not disclose to the Indonesian court that she had entered into the 2018 SA, much less file a copy of the 2018 SA; but had instead proceeded on the basis of her entitlement under the 1995 Will. Her failure to do so further suggested that the Indonesian proceedings had not been pursued in good faith and were vexatious and oppressive. Further, the appellant could not be said to have any legitimate juridical advantage in the Indonesian court (at [50] and [51]).   11 The Court did not agree with the Judge’s reasoning in relation to the issue of whether the respondents could enforce cl 19 by virtue of s 2 of the CRTPA. The dispute as framed by the parties turned on whether cl 19 was a term of the 2018 SA which purported to confer a benefit on the respondents within the meaning of s 2(1)(b) of the CRTPA. However, both parties had omitted to address the court on the anterior question of whether cl 19 as an exclusive jurisdiction clause even came within the remit of the CRTPA. The CRTPA did not permit a non-party to a contract to avail itself of the benefit of an exclusive jurisdiction clause in that contract, unless the contract itself expressly provided to the contrary (at [53] and [54]).      12 The aim of the CRTPA was to enable the carrying out of the intention of contracting parties to confer benefits on third parties. The CRTPA was silent on whether the statute would apply to exclusive jurisdiction clauses. In contrast, s 9 of the CRTPA expressly applied where a third party sought to enforce a contractual term and the contracting parties had agreed that disputes in relation to that term were subject to an arbitration agreement. The statutory silence was deliberate because Parliament made a conscious determination to exclude exclusive jurisdiction clauses from the ambit of s 2(1)(b) of the CRTPA (at [58] and [59]).13 A review of the legislative history of the UK Act showed that exclusive jurisdiction clauses and arbitration agreements differ from the usual category of terms that fall under s 1(1)(b) of the UK Act. An arbitration clause in s 8 of the UK Act was a procedural right; it was not a substantive right that fell under s 1(1)(b). By the same token, an exclusive jurisdiction clause was not a substantive right within the meaning of s 2(1)(b) of the CRTPA (at [60]).14 For the above reasons, the appeal was dismissed. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
