
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 July 2021Case summaryOxley Consortium Pte Ltd v Geetex Enterprises Singapore (Pte) Ltd [2021] SGCA 71Civil Appeal No 229 of 2019 and Summons No 2 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Quentin Loh JAD):Outcome: The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal in part. It overruled the decision of the High Court judge who found that the term “refund” in cl 15.4 of Form D of the Schedule to the Sale of Commercial Properties Rules (Cap 281, R 1, 1999 Rev Ed) (“the Rules”) included reimbursement for payments made to third parties. The court thus varied the arbitration award which had ordered the appellant to reimburse the respondent for all payments that the respondent had made to third parties.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Terms in standard form contracts imposed on parties by statute have to be construed as legislation rather than as contract: at [47].•  What plans and specifications had been “approved” by the purchaser of a commercial property within the meaning of cl 15.4 of the Rules was a question of fact which must depend on the circumstances of each case. This was to be assessed based on the purchaser’s knowledge, actual or constructive, and his state of mind at the date of the agreement. The plans and specifications approved by the purchaser did not necessarily have to be consolidated in some written form, as long as there was some evidence as to what the purchaser had approved or was deemed to have approved, at the relevant time. A purchaser also cannot be deemed to have approved changes that were not yet in existence at the time of the agreement. This was so even if those plans and specifications carried a notice that clearances from certain technical departments were outstanding: at [61].•  There is nothing wrong with a purchaser approving plans which are subject to further development and change because that is part of the development and building process and cl 15.4 provides a mechanism to cater for these changes: at [63] and [76].•  What amounted to a “substantial difference” within the meaning of cl 15.4 of the Rules was an objective rather than a subjective test which assessed whether a reasonable person in the situation of the parties would have thought the two comparative plans, ie, the plan at the time of the agreement and the final approved building plan, differed substantially. It would be relevant to consider this from the perspective of both parties but a greater weight should be placed on the perspective of the purchaser because cl 15.4 is primarily to protect the purchaser. The inquiry included all the relevant factors and circumstances of the case, including but not limited to aesthetics, use restrictions, commercial, utilitarian, and social considerations and values: at [99].•  The term “refund” in cl 15.4 of Rules did not include reimbursement for payments made to third parties: at [112].Background to the appeal1 The appellant was the developer of Oxley Tower. The respondent purchased two units from the appellant, #04-01 (“Unit 1”) and #04-02 (“Unit 2”) (collectively “the Units”), pursuant to two Sale and Purchase Agreements (“SPA(s)”). The SPAs were based on Form D of the Schedule to the Rules, as the use of Form D was statutorily mandated by s 5 of the Sale of Commercial Properties Act (Cap 281, 1985 Rev Ed) (“the Act”) read with r 7 of the Rules (collectively “the legislative scheme”). Both SPAs stated that the building plan for Oxley Tower had been approved under No “A0642-00006-2010-BP01”. This was the serial number for a building plan earlier submitted by the appellant to the Building and Construction Authority (“BCA”), and which was approved by the BCA in March 2012 (“2012 BCA Plan”). The 2012 BCA Plan showed that the hardscape areas (physical features such as concrete paths and walls) of the Units were level with the softscape areas (soil and vegetation). The appellant forwarded to the respondent BCA’s Notice of Approval which contained a qualifier that “clearances from the technical departments as indicated below are outstanding”, and one of the departments listed was the “Fire Safety & Shelter Department” (“FSSD”). Unknown to the respondent, the appellant had amended the 2012 BCA Plan before sending it to FSSD (“2012 FSSD Plan”). In this plan, the appellant elevated the softscape areas by 300mm above the hardscape areas, and also increased the size of the softscape areas, correspondingly reducing the size of the hardscape areas.2 Alongside the SPAs, parties also entered into a Letter of Confirmation where the appellant agreed to: (a) convert the use of Unit 1 from a gym/spa to a restaurant; and (b) remove the swimming pool in Unit 1 and convert it into a garden (collectively the “Changes”). However, the appellant reserved its right to refuse to effect the Changes if the authorities: declined to approve them; approved them subject to terms and conditions it did not agree to; or approved the Changes but subsequently revoked their approval. The appellant also reserved its right to accept in its sole discretion any terms and variations imposed by the authorities in order to grant approval for the Changes. Nevertheless, the Letter of Confirmation required the appellant to give notice in writing to the respondent if any of these situations occurred, and upon receiving such a notice, the respondent was entitled to rescind the SPA within 14 days and be refunded all progress payments.3 At some point, the appellant realised that the Changes would require corresponding changes to the Units in order to comply with FSSD’s requirements. In May 2014, the appellant submitted a redesigned plan to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (“URA”) to seek approval for the change of use of Unit 1 from a gym/spa to a restaurant (“2014 URA Plan”). In the redesigned plan, the softscape areas were substantially increased, and the hardscape areas were correspondingly reduced, as compared to the 2012 FSSD Plan. In August 2016, the appellant submitted “as-built plans” to BCA (“2016 BCA Plan”),  and in November 2016, the appellant submitted the final fire-safety plans to FSSD (“2016 FSSD Plan”). These appeared to be identical to the 2014 URA Plan (collectively “Final Approved Plans”).  4 All this while, the appellant never provided any notice to the respondent pursuant to the Letter of Confirmation. After the respondent took possession of the Units, it discovered the changes that had been made to the Units. The respondent thus sought to terminate the SPAs and seek refund from the appellant of all moneys paid by it to the appellant and to third parties, pursuant to cl 15.4 of the SPAs. As the appellant refused to refund the respondent, the respondent referred the dispute to arbitration.5 The arbitrator found that there were substantial differences between the 2012 BCA Plan subject to the Changes on the one hand, and the Final Approved plans on the other hand. The arbitrator hence terminated the SPAs and ordered the appellant to reimburse the respondent all payments it had made to the appellant and to third parties.6 The appellant filed an appeal to the High Court pursuant to s 49 of the Arbitration Act (Cap 10, 2002 Rev Ed) (“AA”) raising five questions of law. The questions involved the interpretation of three phrases in cl 15.4 of Form D. The High Court found against the appellant on all five questions and dismissed the appeal. The appellant appealed to the Court of Appeal.The Court of Appeal’s decision7 The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal in part.8 Terms in standard form contracts imposed on parties by statute have to be construed as legislation rather than as contract. Not doing so would mean that the parties could subjectively defeat the legislative intent underlying these mandatory terms and would render it pointless for Parliament to have required these terms to be included: at [47].9 The essence of Question 1 was whether the requirements imposed by the technical departments were part of the plans and specifications approved by the purchaser at the date of the agreement, where the BCA had approved building plans for a commercial property subject to outstanding clearances from the technical departments: at [54].10 The court held that what plans and specifications had been “approved” by the purchaser of a commercial property within the meaning of cl 15.4 of the Rules was a question of fact which must depend on the circumstances of each case. This was to be assessed based on the purchaser’s knowledge, actual or constructive, and his state of mind at the date of the agreement. The plans and specifications approved by the purchaser did not necessarily have to be consolidated in some written form, as long as there was some evidence as to what the purchaser had approved or deemed to have approved, at the relevant time. A purchaser also cannot be deemed to have approved changes that were not yet in existence at the time of the agreement. This was so even if those plans and specifications carried a notice that clearances from certain technical departments were outstanding: at [61].11 This view was supported by the general legislative purpose of the Act, and the specific legislative purpose of cl 15.4 of Form D. The general purpose of the legislative scheme was to protect purchasers against developers conducting sales of commercial units in an inequitable manner. Further, cl 15 of Form D was a form of positive purchaser protection which positively allocated to the developer the full risk of a cost increase arising from a change in the specifications and plans, while allocating to the purchaser the full benefit of a cost reduction arising from such a change: at [64] to [65].12 Question 2 asked whether a purchaser of commercial property under construction would be entitled to rely on cl 15.4 if he requested that changes be made to specifications of the unit but had not formally approved of the plans and specifications incorporating the changes he has requested, or whether he is left to his remedies at common law: at [78].13 The court found that the respondent’s emphasis on a formally approved set of plans or specifications was misplaced. As stated by the court at [61], “approval” did not necessarily have to be consolidated in some written form, as long as there was evidence of what the purchaser had approved or was deemed to have approved at the date of the agreement: at [80].14 Question 3 asked what constituted a “substantial difference” within the meaning of cl 15.4 of the Rules. The court held that this was an objective rather than a subjective test which assessed whether a reasonable person in the situation of the parties would have thought the two comparative plans, ie, the plan at the time of the agreement and the final approved building plan, differed substantially. It would be relevant to consider this from the perspective of both parties but a greater weight should be placed on the perspective of the purchaser because cl 15.4 is primarily to protect the purchaser. The inquiry included all the relevant factors and circumstances of the case, including but not limited to aesthetics, use restrictions, commercial, utilitarian, and social considerations and values: at [91], [99].15 Question 4 asked what weight was to be given to the restrictions in cll 25 and 26 of the SPAs when considering what constitutes a substantial difference under cl 15.4. For reference, cll 25 and 26 prohibited the use of the roof gardens in the Units for commercial activities and as spill-over space for restaurant customers. The court held that the question was devoid of merit as it was a fact-specific question which did not raise any question of law: at [34], [104] to [106].16 Question 5 inquired as to the meaning of the phrase “refund all moneys paid by the purchaser” in cl 15.4 of Form D. There were two possible meanings being contended. First, that the phrase referred only to moneys paid to the vendor. Second, that the phrase referred to all moneys paid by the purchaser, whether to the vendor or to third parties: at [107].17 The court held that the phrase did not include reimbursement for payments made to third parties. Clause 15.4 was not a breach or damages clause, but a risk allocation clause which operated in the event that there was a substantial difference between the approved plans and the as-built plans. Such substantial difference was a variance from the agreement, and if this occurred, cl 15.4 operated to allocate the risk between them. Such variance was not necessarily due to any fault of either party but could happen, for example, due to the need to comply with regulations imposed by authorities. Since cl 15.4 was a no-fault clause, which did not require any form of breach or wrongful act on the part of the vendor, the concept underlying cl 15.4 was that of rescission and restitution. There was thus no conceptual basis for holding that the developer should be liable to insure or indemnify the purchaser from all losses, including payments to third parties. If this was what Parliament had intended, the more appropriate word to use would have been “reimburse” or “indemnify”: at [111] to [118].  18 The court thus varied the arbitral award such that the appellant only needed to refund the respondent the progress payments for the Units together with the prescribed interest, but not the payments made to third parties: at [118].19 The court also noted that the appellants had raised various arguments which challenged or ignored the arbitrator’s findings of fact, and had interwoven arguments on points which had not been raised before the arbitrator. This was impermissible, as s 49 of the AA only allowed an appeal on questions of law arising from the award, and was not an avenue for a backdoor appeal of the award: at [4] to [6].20 The court awarded costs to the respondent fixed at $50,000, all in, because although the appellant succeeded on Question 5, the appeal on the remaining four questions had been dismissed: at [122].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
