
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE22 July 2021Case summaryTeelek Realty Pte Ltd and others v Ng Tang Hock[2021] SGCA 70 Civil Appeal No 106 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):COA partially allows appeal against decision on finding of oppression in the conduct of a company’s affairs.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal dismisses the appeal by the second appellant, Mdm Chew Kar Lay Wendy (“Mdm Chew”) and finds that she had misappropriated $12.564m from the first appellant company, Teelek Realty Pte Ltd (“the Company”), and acted in an oppressive manner towards the respondent, Mr Ng Tang Hock (“Mr Ng”). •  The Court of Appeal allows the appeal by the third and fourth appellants (respectively, “Shirlyn Ng” and “Eugene Ng” and collectively “the children”) and finds that they had not been party to the oppressive management of the Company’s affairs.•  The Court of Appeal sets aside the trial judge’s (“the Judge”) winding-up order and replaces it with a buyout order.1 This was an appeal concerning an oppression action under s 216 of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (“Companies Act”) and the winding up of the Company (at [1]). 2 The appeal concerned only three findings made by the Judge in Ng Tang Hock v Teelek Realty Pte Ltd and others [2020] SGHC 214 (“GD”) that (a) Mdm Chew had misappropriated $12.564m from the Company, (b) Mdm Chew and the children had conducted the Company’s affairs in a manner that was oppressive to Mr Ng, and (c) the Company ought to be wound up to remedy the oppression (at [2]).3 As the Company did not take an active role in the appeal, the Court referred to the second to fourth appellants collectively as “the appellants” (at [3]). Background to the appeal4 Mdm Chew and Mr Ng were married in 1995. This marriage broke down sometime in 2011 (at [7]).5 On 11 September 2011, Mdm Chew left the matrimonial home taking the children with her. At that point, both spouses were already legally represented and were actively negotiating a divorce settlement. On 28 September 2011, the spouses arrived at an agreement as to the division of their matrimonial assets. On 14 November 2011, Mdm Chew commenced divorce proceedings against Mr Ng. On 1 August 2012, a consent ancillaries order was made in the divorce proceedings (“Ancillaries Order”) and the final judgment of divorce was granted on 21 August 2012 (at [8]).6 The Company is an investment holding company that owns numerous real estate properties in Singapore. From the time the Company was incorporated in 1996 up to the time of the divorce, Mr Ng and Mdm Chew were the only shareholders and directors of the Company. (at [9]).7 Mr Ng resigned from his directorship on 7 August 2012. In his place, Shirlyn Ng was appointed a director of the Company on the same day. Eugene Ng became the third director on 1 September 2014 (at [10]).8 Over the years, Mr Ng made various loans to the Company. As of 15 August 2011, the loans totalled $12.564m (“Loans”). On 1 October 2011, Mdm Chew caused the Loans to be reclassified in the Company’s general ledger as amounts owing from the Company to herself. She subsequently withdrew $12.564m from the Company’s accounts (at [11]).9 In July 2015, Mdm Chew transferred one share in the Company from herself to each of the children. Mr Ng subsequently challenged these transfers. The Judge invalidated both transfers on the basis that they had been made in breach of the Company’s Articles of Association (“Articles”). No appeal was brought against the invalidation (at [12]).10 On 26 May 2017, notice was given for the Company’s 20th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) to be held on 12 June 2017. Mr Ng attended the AGM through his proxy. The meeting was adjourned without any resolution being voted upon. A subsequent notice dated 3 August 2017 was issued for the adjourned meeting to be held on 22 August 2017. This notice included a new proposed resolution to authorise the Company’s directors (ie, the appellants) to allot and issue shares (“Resolution 6”). Mr Ng objected to Resolution 6 as it had not been proposed or considered at the AGM on 12 June 2017. The appellants refused to remove Resolution 6 from the agenda for the adjourned meeting (at [13]). The court’s decision11 As a preliminary point, the Court clarified that while the parties had used the term “waiver” to describe how Mr Ng had allegedly passed the benefit of the Loans to Mdm Chew, this terminology was both legally incorrect and confusing. When a debt obligation is waived, the waiver comes from an action on the part of the creditor directed at the debtor by which the creditor releases the debtor from the obligation to make repayment. Thus, in this case, any waiver of the Loans would only have operated between Mr Ng and the Company and would have had nothing to do with any other party. Once waived, the Company’s obligation to repay the Loans would no longer exist, not in favour of Mr Ng and certainly not in favour of the third party, Mdm Chew. In situations where the rights under a contract, whether in respect of a debt or otherwise, are claimed to have been transferred to a third party, this would have to have been effected by assignment (or novation if both burdens and benefits are transferred (at [36]). 12 The Court noted that the use of the term “waiver” tended to divert attention from the real issue at hand because it focussed attention on the extinction of the obligation to repay the Loans, rather than the transfer of the same obligation to Mdm Chew. As the counsel for the appellants took the position that Mdm Chew’s entitlement to the Loans was on the basis of an assignment, the Court analysed the appellants’ case on the basis of an assignment (at [36] – [37]). 13 The Court found that Mr Ng had never intended to assign the Loans to Mdm Chew. There was absolutely no evidence of any such assignment (at [38]). 14 First, the objective evidence adduced by the appellants was equivocal as to any such assignment and did not clearly point to any intention on Mr Ng’s part to give up his claim to the Loans and assign them to Mdm Chew before she effected the reclassification of the Loans on the Company’s general ledger on 1 October 2011 (at [39] – [43]).15 Second, given the way in which the appellants chose to run their case in the appeal, they were not allowed to argue that there was an underlying oral agreement for Mr Ng to assign the Loans to Mdm Chew sometime in September 2011 as part of their divorce settlement (“Prior Oral Agreement”). The Prior Oral Agreement was previously advanced before the Judge at trial and described as a “Trust Agreement”. The Judge rejected the Trust Agreement completely, calling it a “complete fabrication”. As the appellants did not bring any appeal against this finding of the Judge, it was not open to them to raise the “Trust Agreement” under another guise in the appeal (at [45] – [48]). 16 Third, the evidence militated against any finding that  there was an agreement to assign the Loans to Mdm Chew as part of the divorce settlement. There was no mention of the Company or the Loans in the Ancillaries order nor in their lawyers’ correspondence during the divorce proceedings. Given that the Loans amounted to a sum of $12.564m, it was strange that Mdm Chew would be content to leave this agreement out of the Ancillaries Order. She was legally represented at the material time and if she had mentioned it to her lawyer, it would certainly have found its way into the Ancillaries Order. Furthermore, Mdm Chew’s conduct in respect of the Loans was highly suspicious – they simply appeared in the Company’s general ledger as a loan from Mdm Chew to the Company on 1 October 2011. Mdm Chew acknowledged that the proper way to record this change was to effect the proper double entries, she was however unable to provide any satisfactory explanation for why this was not done. The Court also agreed with the Judge’s assessment that Mdm Chew was not a credible witness (at [49] – [59]).17 The Court accepted that Mr Ng had taken a less active role in the supervision and management of the Company’s affairs after his divorce from Mdm Chew. However, he still had an expectation that the Company and its affairs would be managed properly. Mr Ng also expected to be able to play a supervisory role in its affairs or, at the very least, to be kept updated about its affairs (at [66]).18 The Court agreed with the Judge that Mr Ng’s oppression action was not an abuse of process. The real injury which Mr Ng sought to vindicate is the breach of his legitimate expectations that the Company and its financial affairs would be managed properly and that he would at least be updated about its affairs. The Court was of the view that Mdm Chew’s conduct as a whole caused distinct personal injury to Mr Ng that is separate from the injury caused to the Company (at [72]). 19 First, Mdm Chew had transferred shares to the children in contravention of the Company’s Articles. Article 30 required her to inform Mr Ng prior to such transfer and Mr Ng, as the only other shareholder, had a prior right to purchase the shares. Mr Ng would, at the very least, have had an expectation that Mdm Chew would abide by the Articles. Further, as a 50% shareholder of the Company, the prospect of obtaining even one extra share through the exercise of his right of pre-emption would have been of great importance to Mr Ng because it would grant him majority status in the Company (at [73]). 20 Second, Mdm Chew effectively prevented Mr Ng from playing any part in the Company’s affairs by depriving him of information about its affairs (at [74] – [75]). 21 Third, Mdm Chew displayed flagrant disregard for Mr Ng’s wishes in relation to the conduct of the adjourned 20th AGM. When the 20th AGM was adjourned from 12 June 2017 to 22 August 2017, Mdm Chew attempted to include Resolution 6 in the agenda for the adjourned AGM. Resolution 6 was intended to authorise her and the children to issue and allot shares to themselves without being constrained by Art 30 of the Articles. The inclusion of Resolution 6 was itself contrary to Art 60 of the Articles. Mdm Chew insisted on proceeding with the resolution in the face of Mr Ng’s objections and was stopped only by an injunction issued by the Judge. This conduct evinced Mdm Chew’s clear disregard for Mr Ng’s interest (at [76] – [77]). 22 Finally, the misappropriation of the Loans was both a classic example of a corporate wrong and a distinct personal wrong against Mr Ng. It was difficult to think of a more direct example of an injury to shareholders than by reducing their value in a company by draining it of $12.564m. The wrongdoing was particularly acute in this case given that Mr Ng had advanced the Loans to the Company to help it to pay off its bank loans. is legitimate expectations thus could not have included the Loans being siphoned out of the Company for the benefit of his ex-wife (at [78]). 23 The Court therefore held that with respect to Mdm Chew’s actions the threshold for oppression under s 216 of the Companies Act had been made out (at [81]). 24 The Court held that the children’s conduct did not amount to oppression under s 216 of the Companies Act and allowed their appeals on this point. The acts of oppression that occasioned personal injury to Mr Ng stemmed from Mdm Chew’s conduct. There was no evidence that either of the children had actively participated in those acts. They each held only one share in the Company(prior to the invalidation of the share transfers by the Judge). Further, given their youth and inexperience in business matters, it was wholly unlikely that they had joined forces with Mdm Chew to manage the Company in a fashion that was oppressive to their father. Counsel for Mr Ng agreed that the evidence showed that the children had simply left decisions about the Company to their mother, Mdm Chew. They trusted her and were content to be guided by her (at [83]).25 The Court was of the view that while such an attitude was understandable and excusable in the family setup, especially where children are being inducted into the management of a family company’s affairs, it will not be condoned in general as directors are usually expected to inform themselves about their company’s affairs and exercise independent judgment in managing them. Whether a director’s lack of participation in a company’s affairs, particularly when a dominant  director is running matters, will allow the passive director to escape from liability for oppression is a fact-centric inquiry that will have to be determined separately in each case (at [83]). 26 The real remedy that Mr Ng sought was to bring an end to his association with Mdm Chew in the Company either by buying her out or being bought out himself. This was a remedy which is only available under s 216 of the Companies Act. As such, in the light of the Court’s finding that Mr Ng was seeking to vindicate his personal legitimate expectations concerning the management of the Company, the action commenced by Mr Ng could not be regarded as an abuse of process (at [85] and [90]). 27 The Judge gave three reasons for ordering the Company to be wound up as a remedy for the oppression. First, Mr Ng and the Judge had no confidence in the accuracy of the Company’s financial records. Second, the Liquidator would be in the position to investigate the accounts and affairs of the Company. Third, the Company was just an investment holding company and did not have any ongoing business operations (at [94]). 28 The Court did not think that any of the reasons given justified a winding-up order. An order for a special audit (as pleaded) would allow Mr Ng to investigate the extent of Mdm Chew’s financial mismanagement of the Company’s affairs and provide him with all the information that Mdm Chew had kept from him over the years. Further, at the time of the hearing, the Company remained a going concern. It was an operational company with active revenue streams – it held the unencumbered title to six commercial properties. Five of these units were occupied by paying tenants and generated profit for the Company. They also needed to be managed. It also held approximately $10m in cash. Finally, the Court found it arguable that in present conditions, a winding-up order would be far from the “best solution for all parties involved”. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a fall in the value of commercial real estate such that a winding-up order at this point could foreseeably result in the Company’s properties (ie, its main and only ongoing source of revenue) being sold at an undervalue (at [95]).29 The Court had regard to the fact that the parties were able to come to an agreement on a buyout proposal under which Mr Ng would buy over Mdm Chew’s shareholding. Although the parties were unable to agree on all parts of the buyout proposal, the Court endorsed it as the most sensible way of proceedings and resolved the residual disagreements as between the parties (at [97] – [115]). This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
