
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE5 July 2021Case SummaryLaw Society of Singapore v Mahtani Bhagwandas [2021] SGHC 170Originating Summons No 8 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Woo Bih Li JAD):Outcome: The Court of Three Judges affirmed the findings of a Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) that the Respondent had, inter alia, acted in conflict of interest. The Court thus made an order under s 98(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”) that the Respondent be suspended from practice for 24 months.   Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Underlying r 21(2) of the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 (S 707/2015) (“PCR”) and also the acquisition of confidential information was the basic principle of conflict of interest. It is no defence for solicitors to say that their new client already has the same information that had been disclosed to them by their former client(s). A solicitor is not entitled to make his own assumptions or enquiries as to whether a prospective client may already be aware of information which would otherwise be “confidential information” within the meaning of r 21(2)(a) of the PCR. The Respondent’s defence to the first and alternative first charges he faced was thus rejected: at [50] and [51].•  While the Respondent claimed to have disclosed to the Complainant that he was acting for Joan Yeo Gek Lin (“JYGL”) on two occasions – 24 July 2017 and 23 August 2017 – the DT was right to conclude that these disclosures had not taken place. The alleged disclosures were simply made up: at [56], [61], and [62].•  All three charges against the Respondent pertained to a conflict of interest. Were the First Charge the only charge before the Court, the Respondent’s breach might arguably be construed as being less serious, particularly given the actual state of JYGL’s knowledge. However, the facts relating to the Second Charge were certainly egregious and brought the present case into Category 2A of the framework set out in Law Society of Singapore v Ezekiel Peter Latimer [2019] 4 SLR 1427 (“Latimer”), with an overall sentence of 24 months’ suspension condign on the instant facts given the applicable aggravating factors: at [82].Background to the appeal1 The Respondent is an Advocate and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Singapore of around 27 years’ standing. He was called to the bar in 1993, and, at all material times, practised as a partner in the firm known as LegalStandard LLP (“LegalStandard”). The Complainant, Shyller Tan, was the wife of Spencer Sanjay s/o Shamlal Tuppani (“ST”), who passed away intestate on 10 July 2017. ST was a former client of the Respondent. The Complainant was the co-administratrix of ST’s estate (the “Estate”).2 ST had been cohabiting with Joan Yeo Gek Lin (“JYGL”) at the time of his death. After ST’s demise, the Respondent acted for JYGL on certain matters relating to her claims against the Estate pertaining to a Toyota Alphard (the “Alphard”) that was in ST’s name but had allegedly been purchased with JYGL’s funds, as well as approximately S$3 million in loans (the “Loans”) JYGL claimed to have made to ST.  3 Two other persons were significant to this application:a. First, Andy Chiok Beng Piow (“ACBP”) was, at the material time, a solicitor with Michael Khoo & Partners (“MKP”). He had been representing the Complainant with respect to her intended divorce proceedings against ST.b. Second, Joey Lee (“Joey”), ST’s former secretary, was alleged to have shared information concerning ST’s assets with Shyller Tan. Shyller Tan subsequently claimed to have conveyed this information to the Respondent as she did not know that he was acting for JYGL.4 It was not contested that prior to ST’s death, he had instructed the Respondent on several matters, including on matters pertaining to his assets. The Complainant and Respondent met from July to October 2017. The Complainant’s account was that, at two of these meetings, she had conveyed information about the Estate – including information she had received from Joey Lee, ST’s former secretary – to the Respondent.5 On 8 August 2017, the Respondent was formally appointed as JYGL’s lawyer at a meeting where JYGL signed a letter of engagement and warrant to act prepared by LegalStandard. 6 On 25 August 2017, ACBP’s firm wrote to LegalStandard with a view towards formally engaging the Respondent to act for the Estate in the retrieval of information and documents relevant to the assets of the deceased. There was no reply. On 3 November 2017, after Shyller Tan and her sister had been granted Letters of Administration for the Estate  on 21 October 2017, MKP sent a letter of demand directly to JYGL making claims for, inter alia, ST’s personal effects that were in JYGL’s possession, as well as the Alphard. Following the 3 November 2017 letter of demand addressed to JYGL, LegalStandard responded with a holding letter. LegalStandard’s holding letter of 24 November 2017 was the first instance that the Respondent’s firm had unequivocally represented in writing that it was acting for JYGL. 7 In 2019, the issue of the Alphard and Loans arose again when JYGL commenced HC/S 217/2019 on 25 February 2019 against the Estate. JYGL was represented by LegalStandard in that Suit. The Estate filed a Defence and Counterclaim on 18 March 2019 which, among other things, complained that the Respondent was acting in conflict of interest by representing JYGL. The Respondent replied by letter on 26 March 2019 to deny any conflict of interest, though he eventually discharged himself from acting for JYGL in the Suit. On 3 April 2019, the Defence and Counterclaim was amended to remove the allegation of conflict. Shortly thereafter, the Complainant formally lodged the instant complaint against the Respondent.8 The Applicant’s Statement of Case dated 22 April 2020 set out the charges against the Respondent:First ChargeThat you, Mahtani Bhagwandas, are charged that, whilst you had acted for ST when he was alive and in the course of your former engagement as ST’s lawyer acquired information relating to the assets of ST and/or [the Estate] which were confidential to ST and/or the Estate, you failed to decline to represent and/or withdraw from representing JYGL in her claim against the Estate thereby breaching Rule 21(2) of the PCR, such breach amounting to improper conduct and practice as an advocate and solicitor within the meaning of section 83(2)(b) of the [LPA].Alternative First ChargeThat you, Mahtani Bhagwandas, are charged with misconduct unbefitting of an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the Supreme Court or as a member of an honourable profession under section 83(2)(h) of the [LPA] in that whilst you had acquired information confidential to ST and/or the Estate in the course of your former engagement as ST’s lawyer, you failed to decline to represent and/or withdraw from representing JYGL in her claim against the Estate.Second ChargeThat you, Mahtani Bhagwandas, are charged with misconduct unbefitting of an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the Supreme Court or as a member of an honourable profession under section 83(2)(h) of the [LPA] in that you failed to make a timely disclosure to the Complainant of your conflict of interest between the Complainant, JYGL and the Estate, and as a result the Complainant was misled into disclosing information which was confidential to the Estate to you. The DT found that the Applicant had proved the charges beyond a reasonable doubt, and accordingly determined pursuant to s 93(1)(c) of the LPA that cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action existed under s 83 of the LPA. The Applicant then commenced this application.The Court of Three Judges’ decision9 The Court of Three Judges allowed the Applicant’s application, and made an order under s 98(1) of the LPA that the Respondent be suspended from practice for 24 months. 10 There were three central issues before the Court: a. First, were the First Charge and/or the Alternative First Charge made out? This centred on a question of law – whether the fact that the new client (in this case, JYGL) already knew the “confidential information” which the lawyer had gleaned from his previous engagement was a valid defence.b. Second, was the Second Charge made out? This entailed consideration of two key flows of information – (i) whether the Complainant did in fact disclose information which was confidential to the Estate to the Respondent, and (ii) whether the Respondent disclosed the fact of his acting for JYGL to the Complainant, and  c. Third, assuming any (or all) of the charges was established, what the appropriate sanction was: at [39]. 11 The only ground upon which the Respondent sought to contest the First Charge pertained to the question of what “confidential information” for the purpose of r 21(2) of the PCR entailed. The Respondent argued that as JYGL had acquired knowledge of the relevant information from ST during his lifetime, that information was not confidential to the Estate vis-à-vis JYGL. JYGL was entitled to rely on and use this information in any dispute she may have against ST or his Estate. The Court rejected this argument, for three reasons. First, the plain wording of rr 6 and 21(2) of the PCR militated against the Respondent’s reasoning. Second, the purpose of r 21 of the PCR was to protect former clients and the public interest through high professional standards. Third, and critically, insofar as the PCR was meant to provide guidance to lawyers considering whether or not to accept an engagement against a former client, the Respondent’s argument would be at odds with those objectives. On the Respondent’s approach, a solicitor would be entitled to make his own assumptions or enquiries as to whether a prospective client may already be aware of information which would otherwise be “confidential information” within the meaning of r 21(2)(a) of the PCR. This was highly problematic, because in many situations, the mere fact of the solicitor making enquiries as to the prospective client’s state of knowledge might already entail some disclosure of elements or aspects of the confidential information in the first place. Accordingly, the Respondent’s defence to the First and Alternative First Charges failed: at [45], [48], and [50].12 To the extent that the Respondent knew or had sound basis to believe that JYGL already knew about the confidential information, this might be relevant to the question of sanction: at [52]. 13 The Second Charge was highly fact-centric and entailed consideration of whether (a) the Respondent had failed to make a timely disclosure to the Complainant of the fact that he was acting/intended to act for JYGL, and (b) whether the Complainant was thereby misled into disclosing information which was confidential to the Estate to the Respondent. The Respondent’s account of what had transpired was that he had, through the First Disclosure of 24 July 2017, and the Second Disclosure of 23 August 2017, disclosed the fact that he was acting for JYGL to the Complainant. He also asserted that the Complainant had never provided him with any information confidential to the Estate: at [53].14 There did not appear to be any basis for suggesting that the First Disclosure had in fact taken place. There were reasons for this which were specific to the First Disclosure, and further reasons which applied to cast doubt on the Second Disclosure or both the First and Second Disclosure. Collectively, the weight of the evidence was that the alleged disclosures had not been made. Specific to the First Disclosure, the first point indicating that the First Disclosure had not in fact taken place was the clear and unequivocal evidence of both Shyller Tan and ACBP to the contrary. The second reason for disbelieving the Respondent’s version of events stemmed from the fact that the Respondent’s own attendance note for the 24 July 2017 meeting, when the First Disclosure allegedly occurred, made no mention whatsoever about the alleged disclosure. In addition, the Respondent’s representations to Shyller Tan were at odds with his having disclosed that he was otherwise acting for JYGL: at [56]–[59].15 Turning to the evidence which pertains to the Second Disclosure or both the First and Second Disclosures, a number of factors indicated that the disclosure(s) did not in fact occur:a. First, the WhatsApp messages exchanged between ACBP and the Respondent on 24 August 2017, where ACBP indicated that he “may have some work” for the Respondent, were at odds with the notion that the Respondent had already disclosed that he was acting for JYGL.b. Second, the letter sent by ACBP’s firm, MKP, to the Respondent’s firm seeking to retain the Respondent’s firm was also telling. As the DT rightly pointed out, there was no convincing explanation as to why the Complainant (and ACBP) would want to “formally retain” the Respondent’s firm, even if just for the limited purpose of seeking “information and documents relevant to the assets of the deceased”, if the Respondent had disclosed that he was acting for JYGL. c. Third, the messages sent by the Complainant to ACBP on 14 October 2017  following her meeting with the Respondent on 13 October 2017 showed that she did not appear to have had any indication from the Respondent, even by the meeting on 13 October 2017, that the Respondent was acting for JYGL. d. Fourth, the Respondent’s own account was that he was behaving as a “friendly intermediary” – but this position was at odds with his having told Shyller Tan that he would be, in effect, acting against her (in her capacity as co-administratrix of the Estate) for JYGL. The interaction between the Respondent on the one hand, and the Complainant and/or ACBP on the other hand, ceased abruptly after 24 November 2017 – which was when the Respondent first revealed, categorically, that he was acting for JYGL. e. Fifth, and significantly, there would have been no justification for ACBP’s firm to send the letter of demand dated 3 November 2017 directly to JYGL if the Respondent had disclosed that he was acting for JYGL. ACBP writing to an individual he knew was represented by a lawyer directly would have potentially placed ACBP in breach of r 7(3) of the PCR.The DT was thus right to conclude that the First and Second Disclosures had not in fact occurred: at [67]–[73].16 The DT also did not err in finding that information conveyed by Joey to the Complainant – and in particular information pertaining to ST’s insurance policy – had been conveyed by the Complainant to the Respondent as a result of her having been misled by his failure to disclose his retainer for JYGL. Seen cumulatively with the Court’s other findings, there was ample basis for the DT having found that the Second Charge was made out: at [78].17 All three charges against the Respondent pertained to a conflict of interest. Were the First Charge the only charge before the Court, the Respondent’s breach might arguably be construed as being less serious, particularly given the actual state of JYGL’s knowledge. However, the facts relating to the Second Charge were certainly egregious and brought the present case into Category 2A of the framework set out in Latimer, with an overall sentence of 24 months’ suspension condign on the instant facts given the applicable aggravating factors: at [53].18 The relevant aggravating factors included the following: (a) the Respondent was of 27 years’ standing, (b) it was well within the Respondent’s ability to avoid placing himself in a position of conflict, particularly by making full and frank disclosure, (c) not only did the Respondent fail to ensure that the Complainant was not labouring under the misapprehension that he was willing and able to act for the Estate, he made positive representations that he would in fact act for the Estate, (d) the Respondent had sought to persuade the Complainant to settle or compromise in relation to JYGL’s claims, and (e) the Respondent carried out his defence by essentially fabricating the First and Second Disclosures: at [82].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
