
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 July 2021Case SummaryJudah Value Activist Fund v Open Faith Investment Limited [2021] SGHC(I) 7Suit No 6 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Sir Henry Bernard Eder IJ):Outcome: The plaintiff, an activist fund, sought to claim damages for breach of a subscription agreement against a party which agreed to subscribe for shares in that fund by way of a transfer-in of shares in specie. The Singapore International Commercial Court dismissed that claim on grounds of causation.Pertinent and significant points of the Judgment•  The contractual provisions relied upon by the plaintiff were clear i.e. the effect of those provisions was, as submitted on behalf of the plaintiff, that the defendant was obliged to transfer 60 million Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019 at latest. There was no ambiguity. In such circumstances, it was doubtful whether it was permissible to look outside of the contract documents to determine the defendant’s obligation. However, if that exercise were permissible and relevant, the context leading to the transaction, as well as parties’ subsequent conduct, all confirmed that the defendant was obliged to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019 or, at the very least, that such conduct was not inconsistent with the relevant contractual obligation : at [95] and [103].•  Even if there were an implied term that the defendant’s obligation to transfer the Agritrade Shares only arose after due diligence and the subscription application process had been completed, this did not assist the defendant. The relevant due diligence and subscription application process had been completed by 18 December 2019, and from that date, the defendant had been able to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares to the plaintiff with no impediment: at [108] and [109].•  The plaintiff had not waived the requirement for the defendant to transfer the Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019, and was not estopped from so contending. Moreover, the plaintiff had not exercised any contractual discretion it possessed to change the Subscription Day to a date after 31 December 2019: at [115], [116], and [117]. •  Accordingly, the defendant’s failure to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019 or at all constituted a breach of contract on its part: at [117]•  The losses claimed by the plaintiff did not fall within the first limb of Hadley v Baxendale (1854) 9 Exch 341 (“Hadley v Baxendale”). However, on the facts, the defendant was well aware that if it did not transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares into the plaintiff’s fund and the share price fell, it was at the very least not unlikely that the plaintiff’s lending bank, Maybank, would make a margin call which the defendant could not meet, and then effect a forced sale of the plaintiff’s existing portfolio, causing the plaintiff potential substantial loss. Accordingly, the losses claimed by the plaintiff fell within the second limb of Hadley v Baxendale and were not irrecoverable on the basis that they are too remote: at [142] and [143].•  The plaintiff had satisfied the burden of establishing that the defendant’s breach in failing to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares was the cause of the forced sale of the 30 million Agritrade Shares by Maybank on 20 January 2020. However, the plaintiff did not suffer any loss in respect of that initial sale of that tranche of shares in particular, because, among other considerations, the share price had fallen further since that forced sale. Further, the plaintiff had failed to establish on a balance of probability that it had suffered any loss as a result of the further sales caused by the defendant’s initial breach of contract or the forced sale by Maybank on 20 January 2020: at [164] and [165]. Background to the appeal1 The plaintiff, Judah Value Activist Fund, is an exempted company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. It is an activist hedge fund which targets mainly Singapore and Hong Kong listed companies. The plaintiff’s Chief Investment Officer (“CIO”) is Mr Roland Jude Thng Qida (“Mr Thng”). His role was to monitor the plaintiff’s portfolio of assets and liaise with investors. He was the individual in charge of making decisions on behalf of the plaintiff. The plaintiff was also managed by Swiss-Asia Financial Services Pte. Ltd (“Swiss Asia”) under an investment management agreement. The fund administrator was the Apex Group (“Apex”). 2 At the relevant time, i.e. end-December 2019, the plaintiff’s portfolio of shares comprised 157,995,000 shares (the “Agritrade Shares”) in Agritrade Resources Limited (“Agritrade”), a company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Agritrade International Pte Limited (“APIL”) was the controlling shareholder of Agritrade, holding approximately 55.7% of the issued shares of Agritrade.3 The plaintiff had a margin loan facility (“MLF”) with Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte Ltd (“Maybank”) set out in a MLF Letter under which, according to the plaintiff, the plaintiff was required to maintain a Loan-to-Value Ratio (“LTV Ratio”) below 70%. The MLF Letter itself provided on its face that (a) the Margin Ratio must at all times be maintained at a ratio of at least 140%; (b) a Margin Call occurs if and when the Margin Ratio falls below 140% or the Margin Limit is exceeded; and (c) Maybank had the right to sell all or any part of the plaintiff’s Agritrade shares without prior notice if and when, inter alia, the Margin Ratio fell below 130%. The MLF Letter made reference to Maybank’s Terms and Conditions being applicable to the contract, but no copy of those terms was produced or disclosed. 4 The plaintiff claimed that it did not have a copy of the relevant and applicable Margin Facility Terms. The defendant’s expert, Mr Kon Yin Tong (“Mr Kon”), had sourced a copy of what he considered to be the relevant terms from Maybank’s website (as referred to in the MLF Letter). The plaintiff did not appear to take issue with these terms until the eleventh hour, when the plaintiff’s counsel suggested that the terms adduced by Mr Kon were inapplicable. However, the plaintiff could not point to a different set of terms which it said should apply, and the Court was thus prepared to accept those adduced by Mr Kon (the “Maybank T&Cs”).5 The defendant is a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. It is in the business of consultancy and investment holdings. The defendant’s sole director and shareholder is Mr Tay Jing Yi Joseph (“Mr Tay”). Mr Thng and Mr Tay had known each other for about 3 years prior to this dispute arising.6 The present case concerns a dispute arising out of a contract consisting of a Subscription Application Form (“SAF”) and a Private Placement Memorandum (“PPM”) signed on 11 December 2019 between the plaintiff and the defendant (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “subscription agreement” or “SA”) whereby the defendant agreed to subscribe for a number of Class B shares in the plaintiff by way of a transfer in specie by the defendant to the plaintiff of 60 million Agritrade shares (the “Agritrade Shares”). 7 In essence, the plaintiff contended that (a) pursuant to the SA, the defendant was obliged to transfer the Agritrade Shares to the plaintiff by latest 31 December 2019; (b) in breach of that obligation, the defendant failed to effect such transfer by that date or at all; and (c) as a result, the plaintiff’s LTV exceeded 70%, causing a margin trigger event under the MLF and thereby entitling Maybank to issue a margin call to the plaintiff, which Maybank did at 3.30pm on 20 January 2020 (the “margin call”). Shortly thereafter, between 20 and 23 January 2020, Maybank force sold the plaintiff’s entire holding of Agritrade shares in three main tranches to clear off the margin loan at an average price of HK$ 0.1957 per share. It was uncontested that Maybank was entitled to force sell the said Agritrade Shares.8 The plaintiff argued that the forced sale would not have occurred if the defendant had effected the share transfer on 31 December 2019 as it was obliged to do under the SA, and that, as a result of the defendant’s breach, it suffered a loss of S$ 5,389,734.91 which it is entitled to recover against the defendant together with interest and costs. The defendant did not dispute that it entered into the SA. However, it was the defendant’s case that the SA did not specify a date when the share transfer was to be made and, in particular, did not impose any obligation on the defendant to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019. The defendant also raised a number of specific defences, that (a) it was an implied term of the SA that the share transfer need not be effected before the due diligence and subscription application process were completed, and such process had not yet been completed by 31 December 2019; (b) the plaintiff was entitled to, and did in fact, exercise its discretion to change the day upon which the obligation to transfer the Agritrade Shares to the plaintiff fell due to a date after 31 December 2019; (c) the plaintiff, by its words and conduct after 31 December 2019, had waived its right to insist on strict compliance with that deadline; (d) the defendant’s acts did not cause the plaintiff’s loss; and (e) the loss claimed by the plaintiff is too remote.The Singapore International Commercial Court’s decision9 The Singapore International Commercial Court accepted that the defendant had breached its obligation to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares but dismissed the plaintiff’s claim for substantial damages on the basis that the plaintiff had failed to establish on a balance of probability that the defendant’s breach had caused any actionable loss by virtue of the forced sale of its shares in Agritrade: at [165] and [177].  10 The starting point in contractual interpretation is the language which appears in the Contract. The contractual provisions relied upon by the plaintiff were clear, i.e. the effect of those provisions was, as submitted on behalf of the plaintiff, that the defendant was obliged to transfer the Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019 at latest. In particular, the defendant was obliged under the SA to subscribe to the plaintiff and transfer 60 million Agritrade Shares to the plaintiff by the “Subscription Day”, which was the first business day of each month – i.e. in this case, 2 January 2020 since the SA were executed after 1 December 2020. Moreover, since the defendant’s 60 million Agritrade Shares would have to be transferred in accordance with the “Subscription Dealing Deadline” – i.e. 2 business days before the “Subscription Day”, the said transfer had to be made by 30 December 2019. However, the plaintiff had exercised its contractual discretion to allow the defendant to transfer its 60 million Agritrade Shares a day later, i.e. on 31 December 2019. There was no question of ambiguity. In such circumstances, it was doubtful that it was even permissible to look outside of the SA to determine the defendant’s obligations, and the surrounding context and parties’ post-contractual conduct in any event confirmed what was clear from the plain wording of the contract documents: at [38], [92], and [95]. 11 It was the defendant’s case that, on close analysis of the language of the SAF and PPM, there was a “gap” in the SAF and PMM with regard to subscriptions in specie; that it was therefore “necessary and efficacious” to fill the “gap” by implying a term that the defendant’s obligation to transfer the Agritrade Shares only arose after the due diligence and subscription application process had been completed. However, this did not assist the defendant. Even if the implied term the defendant sought to rely on was in fact implied, the relevant due diligence and subscription application process had been completed by 18 December 2019, long before the deadline of 31 December 2019. From 18 December 2019, the defendant was able to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares to the plaintiff without difficulty or impediment, and the implication of the term thus did not in fact assist it: at [106] and [108].12 The defendant relied on a number of WhatsApp messages for its submission that the plaintiff had waived the requirement to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares by 31 December 2019. However, properly read, these messages simply recognised that the defendant was late in performing its contractual obligation and, unsurprisingly, sought to explain what would have to happen as a result of the defendant’s delay in transferring the Agritrade Shares. Moreover, it could not be said that that there was “silence” or “inaction” on the part of the plaintiff after 31 December 2020. The WhatsApp messages spoke for themselves in showing that the plaintiff continued to press for the transfer of the shares. It also could not be said that the plaintiff was estopped by its words or conduct from insisting on its strict legal rights. Moreover, while the defendant submitted that the plaintiff had indeed exercised its contractual discretion to shift the date to a date in February 2020, this was not borne out by the communications between the two parties: at [114], [116], and [117].13 The applicable principles in determining remoteness of loss were not in dispute. In essence, losses would not be said to be too remote provided they fall within either Limb 1 or Limb 2 of Hadley v Baxendale. As there stated, damages will not be too remote if either (i) they flow naturally from the breach once regard is had to the sort of knowledge of the relevant surrounding circumstances that the contract breaker would generally be taken to have had (“Limb 1”) or (ii) where losses arise in the context of special facts and circumstances, they are foreseeable as not unlikely given [the defendant’s] knowledge of those special facts and circumstances (“Limb 2”). Further, it was common ground that the time for ascertaining the relevant knowledge for the purposes of either Limb 1 or Limb 2 was the date of the contract and in the present case, 11 December 2019: at [124], [134] and [140]. 14 Absent special circumstances or special knowledge, it would not be within the reasonable contemplation of an ordinary investor that any breach of that investor’s agreement to subscribe in that fund would or might cause a margin call on the fund’s assets and thereby cause loss to the fund of a type as was alleged by the plaintiff in the present case. To that extent, the plaintiff could not succeed on Limb 1. However, in the instant case, Mr Tay (and therefore the defendant) was well aware that if the defendant did not transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares into the plaintiff’s fund and the share price fell, it was at the very least not unlikely that Maybank would make a margin call which the defendant could not meet, and then effect a forced sale of the plaintiff’s existing portfolio of Agritrade Shares (whether in whole or in part), causing the plaintiff potential substantial losses. In light of the foregoing, the losses claimed by the plaintiff plainly fell within Limb 2, and were not irrecoverable on the basis that they were too remote in law: at [142] and [143]. 15 The determination of the causation issue depended on a comparison between (a) the losses that the plaintiff in fact suffered and (b) the position which would have existed if the defendant had performed its contractual obligations and duly transferred the 60 million Agritrade shares by 31 December 2019. The latter hypothetical counterfactual exercise was the subject of detailed evidence by the experts. The counterfactual exercise and the assumptions made by the experts depended, at least in part, on an assessment as to what Maybank was contractually entitled to do and what it would or would not have done in practice if the defendant had transferred the 60 million Agritrade Shares. To a very large extent, such assessment was somewhat speculative, in particular because no evidence was adduced in the course of the trial from any witness from Maybank: at [145] and [146].16 On behalf of the plaintiff, it was submitted that, based on the MLF Letter, Maybank would make a margin call when the Margin Ratio fell below 140%; and that when the Margin Ratio falls below 130%, Maybank may, at its discretion, commence the force selling of the plaintiff’s Agritrade Shares. That analysis was not disputed by the defendant. However, the critical difference between the parties (and the experts) concerned the proper way of computing the Margin Ratio. In summary, the plaintiff’s case based on the evidence of its expert, Mr Tan, was that in computing the Margin Ratio, it is the LTV Ratio which is relevant; and that this is computed as the loan amount divided by the full market value of the secured assets. In contrast, the defendant’s case based on the evidence of its expert, Mr Kon, was that the Margin Ratio is as defined in the Maybank T&Cs, as the collateral security value divided by the value of the outstanding amount less the cash in account. Mr Kon’s evidence was that the Collateral Security Value of the Agritrade Shares was 70% of the market value: at [150]–[152].17 The methodology adopted by Mr Kon in calculating the Margin Ratio was correct because it was consistent (or at least more consistent) with the provisions of the Maybank T&Cs. However, while it is the case that that on Mr Kon’s evidence, Maybank would have been entitled to serve a margin call in the counterfactual scenario, it is not the case that the plaintiff would have had no choice but to start selling its portfolio of Agritrade shares upon receiving the margin call, still less that the plaintiff would, in that counterfactual scenario, have itself actually started selling its portfolio of Agritrade shares at that point. After all, the plaintiff did not itself initiate or effect any sale of its shares on 20 January 2020. Rather, it was Maybank who force sold the shares. The important point was that even putting the defendant’s case at its highest, Maybank would not have been entitled immediately to force sell the plaintiff’s shares until the Margin Ratio fell below 130% and, even on Mr Kon’s analysis in the counterfactual scenario, this would not have occurred on 20 January 2020. For these reasons, the Court found that the plaintiff had satisfied the burden of establishing that the defendant’s breach in failing to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares was the cause of the forced sale of the 30 million Agritrade Shares by Maybank on 20 January 2020: at [163] and [164].18 However, there did not appear to be any basis on which the plaintiff could claim any loss in respect of the initial forced sale of 30 million Agritrade Shares on 20 January 2020. This was because the plaintiff had not, in the particular circumstances of the present case, suffered any proven loss by virtue of the forced sale with regard to this tranche of shares. The plaintiff was certainly deprived of and therefore “lost” the 30 million Agritrade Shares which were force sold by Maybank. However, at the same time, the plaintiff received what was the market price for those shares at the time of sale. Thus, this tranche of shares was, in effect, replaced by the money equivalent of the value of those shares at that date. Moreover, the market price never did rise above the price at which this tranche of shares was sold. Thus, the Court did not consider that the plaintiff could recover any substantial damages in respect of the forced sale of this initial tranche of shares on 20 January 2020: at [165]. 19 The remaining issue was whether the plaintiff was entitled to recover any losses in respect of the subsequent forced sales on 21 and 23 January 2020. As the records showed, the market price dropped slightly from the closing price of HK$ 0.250 on 20 January 2020 to HK$ 0.240 on opening at 9.30am on 21 January 2020, before plummeting at 9.45am to HK$ 0.170, losing almost 30% in the space of the first 15 minutes of trading. Thereafter, the market price hovered between about HK$ 0.173 and HK$ 0.204, albeit recovering to some extent in the course of 22 and 23 January 2021. At those prices, there was no doubt that Maybank would have been entitled to make a margin call and force sell the entirety of the plaintiff’s Agritrade Shares in the course of 21 and 23 January 2020 even if the defendant had transferred the 60 million Agritrade Shares to the plaintiff: at [167].20 The plaintiff was unable to establish on a balance of probability that the fall in the price of Agritrade Shares from 21 January 2020 was caused (in the relevant legal sense) by the defendant’s breach of contract in failing to transfer the 60 million Agritrade Shares and, more specifically as a result of that failure, by the forced sale of the 30 million Agritrade Shares on 20 January 2020. Accordingly, it could not be said that the loss claimed by the plaintiff was caused by the defendant’s breach, and the claim for substantial damages was thus unsuccessful: at [168], [174]–[176]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
