
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE30 June 2021Case summaryMeow Moy Lan and others v Exklusiv Resorts Pte Ltd and another [2021] SGHC 155--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Chua Lee Ming):Outcome: HC found that the first defendant was liable to the plaintiffs for breach of contract but the plaintiffs failed to prove that they had suffered any loss. Background 1 The Pines (“the Club”) was a proprietary social club originally situated at 30 Stevens Road (“30SR”) in central Singapore. The first defendant, Exklusiv Resorts Pte Ltd (“Exklusiv”) owned 30SR and the Club, while the second defendant, Peter Kwee Seng Chio (“Peter Kwee”) was a director and indirect shareholder of Exklusiv.2 From 2003 to 2012, the Club suffered an estimated $61m loss due to its low membership. Peter Kwee had estimated that the Club would require at least 4,000 members for its operations to break even but as of 2012, the Club had only about 1,500 members. Exklusiv was able to continue carrying on business only because of Peter Kwee’s provision of financial support. As such, Peter Kwee started discussions with various parties from around 2010 to explore possible solutions to the Club’s loss-making position.3 In June 2011, Exklusiv engaged AM Architects Pte Ltd (“AM Architects”) to draw up plans for the redevelopment of 30SR for the purpose of seeking approval from the Urban Redevelopment Authority (“URA”). On 21 August 2012, a dialogue session in relation to the redevelopment of 30SR was conducted for the Club’s members. Copies of a list of questions and answers (“Q&As”), which provided the following information, among others, were circulated:a. The redevelopment would take approximately 2–3 years.b. If all relevant approvals were granted, demolition work would commence by March 2013. All costs of the redevelopment would be borne by the owner.c. The Club membership, which had a tenure of 30 years, would be extended by two or three years.d. Arrangements would be made for full social membership privileges (with no voting rights) at the Laguna Club during the period of redevelopment.e. The Club would assist members in selling their membership, if they did not wish to continue with their membership; alternatively, these members could resign.4 Slides presented at the dialogue session showed that the proposed new clubhouse would have a basement and three other floors with various facilities. Peter Kwee also informed the members, among other things, that he had been subsidising the Club for more than nine years. The feedback from the members at the dialogue session focused mainly on the facilities and the size of the clubhouse.5 AM Architect’s submission to the URA underwent several changes but eventually on 27 February 2013, URA granted provisional permission for, among other things, a proposed four-storey clubhouse with basement at 30SR. In its letter to the Club’s members dated 14 March 2013, Exklusiv confirmed its plan to redevelop 30SR and updated them on the progress of the redevelopment plans (the “14 March 2013 Letter”).6 On 15 March 2013, Exklusiv granted Oxley Gem Pte Ltd (“Oxley Gem”) an option to purchase 30SR, which was exercised on 29 May 2013. The option also provided that Exklusiv shall have the first right of refusal to lease from Oxley Gem the part of the development at 30SR comprising the club facilities.7 On 13 September 2013, Exklusiv informed the Club’s members that the Club would cease operations at 30SR on 1 November 2013 (the “13 September 2013 Letter”). The letter also confirmed the construction schedule of a three-storey clubhouse at 30SR and that memberships would be extended by three years and no subscriptions would be charged during the construction period. On 14 January 2014, Exklusiv informed the Club’s members that it had completed the handover of the Club to Oxley Gem and that it would be operating a restaurant at the Esplanade for the next three years (the “14 January 2014 Letter”).8 However, by late 2015, it became apparent to Exklusiv that it was impossible to build and operate the envisioned new clubhouse at 30SR due to URA’s gross floor area restrictions and the insufficiency of carpark lots permitted for the entire development. As such, Peter Kwee tried sourcing for alternative locations to situate the club but failed to find a suitable alternative.9 On 28 March 2016, Exklusiv amended rules 3c, 4 and 30a of the Club’s Rules and Regulations (the “Rules”), pursuant to rule 66. Rules 3c and 4 were amended to allow Exklusiv to relocate the Club and clubhouse at Exklusiv’s sole discretion. Rule 30a was amended to allow the term of the memberships to be extended if the Club’s facilities were suspended or unavailable for an extended period.10 Eventually, Exklusiv decided to relocate the Club to the premises of the Laguna National Golf & Country Club (“Laguna Club”). The Club’s members were provided access to the non-golfing facilities at the Laguna Club and the facilities at the Dusit Thani Laguna Singapore Resort (“Dusit Thani”). Exklusiv informed the Club’s members of its decision on 27 October 2017 (the “27 October 2017 Letter”) and explained the challenges faced in continuing to provide the Club’s services at 30SR. On 16 October 2020, Exklusiv and Oxley Gem entered into a tenancy agreement for a three-year lease of the first floor of a two-storey building on 30SR with an option to renew the lease for another three years (“the satellite clubhouse”). The satellite clubhouse, alongside other facilities at 30SR, were made available to the Club’s members.11 The dispute in this case arose because of the unhappiness of some of the Club’s members with the relocation of the Club. Three of the Club’s members (“the representative plaintiffs”) represented themselves and 167 other members of the Club (collectively, “the plaintiffs”) in this representative action against the defendants for deceit, negligence and negligent misrepresentation, and for breach of contract against the first defendant. The plaintiffs sought the following reliefs:a. A declaration that the amendments of rules 3c, 4 and 30a are invalid.b. An order for specific performance whereby Exklusiv procures one of the hotels from Oxley Gem and converts it into a clubhouse for the Club.c. Alternatively, an order for the defendants to procure for each of the plaintiffs membership in an equivalent club located at a central area of Singapore, such as the Tanglin Club or the American Club.d. Alternatively, an order to compensate each plaintiff a value equivalent to the present market value of about 20 years’ use of 30SR and the Club’s facilities.e. Damages to be assessed.f. An account of profits by the defendants.g. Further and in the alternative, an account of profits or an inquiry as to damages and payment of all sums found to be due upon the taking of such account or inquiry.12 The defendants denied liability for any of the plaintiffs’ claims.The court’s decision 13 The court dismissed the plaintiffs’ claims against the defendants for deceit, negligent misrepresentation and negligence. The court found that Exklusiv was liable to the plaintiffs for breach of contract: at [71], [72], [80] and [102].14 The court granted a declaration that the amendments of rules 3c and 4 were invalid. While Exklusiv was liable for breach of contract, the plaintiffs failed to prove that they had suffered loss. Accordingly, the court awarded each of the plaintiffs nominal damages in the sum of $1,500. All other reliefs sought by the plaintiffs were dismissed: [109], [139] and [146].The plaintiffs’ claims for deceit and negligent misrepresentation15 Based on the plaintiffs’ pleaded case, the alleged misrepresentations underlying their claim for deceit related to the Club’s confirmation that it had reached a decision to redevelop the Club at 30SR: at [59].16 The court found that the alleged misrepresentations, being representations as to the future, were not actionable because at the time these representations were made, the defendants did intend to provide the Club’s members with a new clubhouse at 30SR but were ultimately unable to do so for various reasons. The redevelopment plans submitted to URA had always included a clubhouse at 30SR and it was also highly unlikely that the defendants would have gone to the extent of obtaining the first right of refusal from Oxley Gem if they had no intention of operating the Club at 30SR. There was no evidence of any conspiracy between the defendants and Oxley Gem: at [63] to [66].17 Accordingly, the court dismissed the plaintiffs’ claim for deceit. Given that the plaintiffs’ claim for negligent misrepresentation was based on the same allegations pleaded in respect of their claim for deceit, their claim for negligent misrepresentation was also dismissed by the court: at [71] and [72].The plaintiffs’ claim for negligence18 The plaintiffs failed to properly plead the facts upon which the alleged duty of care was founded. They also failed to properly plead the precise breach of the alleged duty of care. Accordingly, the court dismissed the plaintiffs’ claim for negligence: at [73] to [80].The plaintiffs’ claim for breach of contract19 The court found that the following terms were implied in the membership contract:a. The nature and object of the Club is that of a city club located in a central area of Singapore: at [101(a)].b. Rule 66 does not permit amendments to the Rules to allow the Club to be situated outside the central area of Singapore: at [101(b)].c. Exklusiv cannot act in bad faith or in an arbitrary, irrational or capricious manner when exercising its contractual discretion under rule 66 to amend the Rules: at [101(c)].20 Accordingly, the court found that in making the amendments to rules 3c and 4 and in declaring in the 27 October 2017 Letter that the clubhouse will no longer be located at 30SR, Exklusiv breached the implied terms set out above. However, the amendments to rule 30a were not in breach of the implied terms: at [101] to [103].21 The court also found that the entire agreement clause in the membership application forms was not sufficiently “clear and unambiguous” such as to preclude the implication of the above terms: at [95] to [100].22 The court found that the amended rules 3c and 4 did not satisfy the requirement of reasonableness in s 3(2) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act (Cap 396, 1994 Rev Ed): at [104] to [106].Relief granted by the court for Exklusiv’s breach of contract23 The court noted that the plaintiffs’ claims for relief of any sort against Peter Kwee for breach of contract could not succeed because he was not a party to the membership contracts and there was no claim against him for breach of contract: at [108].24 The court found that the plaintiffs were entitled to a declaration that the amendments to rules 3c and 4 were invalid. However, they were not entitled to a similar declaration in relation to the amendments to rule 30a as those amendments were valid: at [109].25 The court declined to make an order for specific performance as damages would be an adequate remedy; there was nothing so unique about membership in a social club that damages could not be an adequate remedy. As members of the Club, the plaintiffs had a contractual licence to use the Club’s facilities; they had no additional interest in 30SR or the Club’s facilities: at [110] to [114].26 The court declined to make an order for the defendants to procure for each of the plaintiffs membership in a club in the central area of Singapore, such as the Tanglin Club or the American Club. The plaintiffs’ remedy was in damages. In any event, such a remedy may not be realistic and neither the Tanglin Club nor the American Club were truly comparable clubs: at [115] to [117].27 The court declined to make an order for compensation to the plaintiffs for a value equivalent to the present market value of about 20 years’ use of 30SR and its facilities as there was no basis for such a claim: at [118] to [120].28 The plaintiffs no longer pursued the remedy of account of profits during closing submissions: at [140].Assessment of damages29 After considering the expert evidence adduced by the plaintiffs and the defendants, the court found that the plaintiffs failed to prove that they had suffered any loss. The court found that there was no diminution in the value of the plaintiffs’ memberships in the Club at 30SR as at October 2017 compared to the value of their memberships in the Club at Laguna: at [138].30 Accordingly, the court awarded each plaintiff nominal damages of $1,500 each: at [139].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
