
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE30 June 2021Case summaryMohammad Reduan bin Mustaffar v Public Prosecutor and another appeal and another matter [2021] SGCA 64 Criminal Appeals Nos 38 of 2019 and 39 of 2019 and Criminal Motion No 34 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses the appeals against conviction and sentence for drug trafficking charges in CA/CCA 38/2019 and CA/CCA 39/2019. The Court of Appeal makes no order on the application to adduce fresh evidence by way of CA/CM 34/2020.Background facts1 Mohammad Reduan bin Mustaffar (“Reduan”), Nazeeha binte Abu Hasan (“Nazeeha”) and Tan Swim Hong (“Tan”) were tried jointly below for offences under the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). The offences related to their respective roles in trafficking a packet containing not less than 661.2g of methamphetamine (“the Drugs”).2 Reduan and Nazeeha were residing together at Reduan’s flat (“the Flat”) at the material time. They knew Tan as “Ong”. On 23 September 2016 at about 6.05pm, Tan informed Reduan over a phone call that he was arriving in the vicinity of the Flat with a detergent box. Tan testified that he had collected a Daia washing powder box (“the Daia Box”) from one “Ahmad”, who was Reduan’s relative, in Johor Bahru earlier that day. On Reduan’s instructions, Nazeeha picked up a white envelope (“the Envelope”) from Reduan’s car and handed the Envelope to Tan. The Envelope contained $950 in cash and had the words “Ong Salary for e Month September” written on it. Tan pointed Nazeeha to a purple paper bag (“the Paper Bag”) on a nearby pavement and left. The Paper Bag contained the Daia Box, which in turn contained the Drugs. Nazeeha brought the Paper Bag back to the Flat. Shortly thereafter, Tan, Reduan and Nazeeha were arrested. The Envelope containing $950 in cash was seized from Tan whilst the Daia Box containing the Drugs was seized in the living room of the Flat.3 The charges against Tan, Reduan and Nazeeha were as follows:(a) Tan was charged with trafficking by delivering the Drugs to Nazeeha, an offence under s 5(1)(a) of the MDA.(b) Reduan was charged with abetting by instigating Nazeeha to traffic in the Drugs, an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 12 of the MDA.(c) Nazeeha faced a charge (as amended at the end of the trial) of trafficking by transporting not less than 249.99g of methamphetamine, an offence under s 5(1)(a) of the MDA.4 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) convicted Tan, Reduan and Nazeeha of their respective charges. The Judge imposed the mandatory death sentence on Reduan as he did not qualify for the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B of the MDA. Nazeeha was sentenced to 24 years’ imprisonment. 5 CA/CCA 38/2019 (“CCA 38”) and CA/CCA 39/2019 (“CCA 39”) are Reduan’s and Nazeeha’s respective appeals against their convictions and sentences. Reduan also applied to adduce fresh evidence by way of CA/CM 34/2020 (“CM 34”).Reduan’s and Nazeeha’s cases on appeal6 Reduan appealed against his conviction on the basis that the Judge erred in disbelieving his sole defence that he had no intention of dealing in more than 250g of methamphetamine at any one time, including on 23 September 2016 . At trial, he admitted to knowing that the Daia Box contained methamphetamine. He also accepted that he and his relative, Ahmad Ashikin bin Ahmad Sulaiman (“Ahmad”), were involved in trafficking methamphetamine. However, he claimed that he and Ahmad had a longstanding arrangement that Ahmad would send him no more than 250g of methamphetamine for him to supply to his customers (“the 250g Arrangement”). Pursuant to this arrangement, Reduan had only agreed to take 125g of methamphetamine from Ahmad on 23 September 2016 as he already had 125g of methamphetamine in his house at the time. Reduan alleged that Ahmad had assured him that the delivery would involve no more than 125g of methamphetamine. Since Reduan did not check the contents of the Daia Box, he purportedly did not know that the Daia Box contained a capital amount of methamphetamine. Reduan did not raise any grounds in support of his appeal against his sentence.7 Nazeeha appealed against her conviction on the ground that the Judge erred in finding that she had failed to rebut the presumption under s 18(2) of the MDA that she knew of the nature of the Drugs. Nazeeha maintained that she thought she was collecting groceries from Tan on 23 September 2016. Nazeeha also contended that her sentence was manifestly excessive and submitted that she should receive the mandatory minimum of 20 years’ imprisonment instead.Decision of the Court of AppealCM 34 and CCA 388 The fresh evidence that Reduan sought to adduce in CM 34 were two police statements given by Ahmad (“the Statements”). The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) made no order on CM 34 because the Statements had no significant bearing on Reduan’s conviction (at [43] and [45]). The Statements essentially reflected the substance of Ahmad’s evidence at trial – namely, that he had never been involved in any drug trafficking activities (at [43]). Furthermore, even if the Statements showed that Ahmad was not a credible witness, the Judge did not convict Reduan on the basis of Ahmad’s testimony or on an assessment of Reduan’s and Ahmad’s relative credibility (at [40] and [44]). 9 The Court dismissed Reduan’s appeal against his conviction in CCA 38 (at [41]). For the following reasons, the Court found that the 250g Arrangement was fabricated and that Reduan had no reason to believe that Tan would deliver not more than 125g of methamphetamine on 23 September 2016 (at [21]): (a) First, Reduan made no mention of the 250g Arrangement in any of his nine police statements. As a seasoned drug trafficker, Reduan must have appreciated the significance of the 250g Arrangement to his defence. Yet, he had no convincing explanation for this omission (at [22] and [23]).(b) Second, the 250g Arrangement was contradicted by multiple incriminating messages in Reduan’s phone that showed that he routinely dealt in more than 250g of methamphetamine at once (at [24] to [30]).(c) Third, Reduan’s own behaviour was inconsistent with the existence of the 250g Arrangement (at [34]). He claimed that on every prior occasion that he received drugs from Ahmad, he would immediately check that the quantity of methamphetamine did not exceed 250g. According to him, however, he did not have time to check the weight of the Drugs (at [31]). Crucially, Reduan’s conduct indicated that he had no intention of verifying the weight of the Drugs immediately, and this was inconsistent with his own professed mode of operation (at [32]). Furthermore, Reduan testified that the transaction on 23 September 2016 was the first time that he had taken delivery of drugs on behalf of Ahmad’s customer instead of receiving drugs that he (Reduan) had ordered for his own customers. The unusual nature of the transaction should have made Reduan more, not less, eager to check the weight of the Drugs (at [33] and [34]).(d) Fourth, if Ahmad and Reduan had in fact agreed that the latter would receive no more than 125g of methamphetamine on 23 September 2016, there was simply no reason for Ahmad to send Reduan eight times the amount of methamphetamine (in terms of gross weight) that Reduan had purportedly agreed to receive. Reduan did not provide any satisfactory explanation for this (at [37]).10 The Court also dismissed Reduan’s appeal against sentence. Reduan did not challenge the Judge’s finding that he was not a courier and, in any event, the Prosecution did not issue a certificate of substantive assistance in his favour (at [46]).CCA 3911 The Court dismissed Nazeeha’s appeal against her conviction in CCA 39 as she had failed to rebut the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the MDA (at [47] and [66]). There was more than ample evidence to indicate that, prior to 23 September 2016, Nazeeha not merely suspected but in fact knew that Reduan trafficked drugs (at [48]). Indeed, she actively assisted in Reduan’s drug trafficking activities (at [50]). Her collection of the Daia Box from Tan on Reduan’s instructions thus had to be viewed in the context of her well-founded belief that Reduan was trafficking drugs (at [52]).12 Even though Nazeeha claimed to have believed that she was collecting groceries from Tan, the delivery on 23 September 2016 was unusual for many reasons:(a) First, Nazeeha testified that on previous occasions when Tan had delivered groceries, she would tell Reduan what groceries she needed and Reduan would then convey her order to Tan. However, she had not asked Reduan to get Tan to purchase groceries on their behalf prior to the delivery on 23 September 2016 (at [53]).(b) Second, when Nazeeha pointed out to Reduan that she had not ordered groceries, Reduan did not clarify and instead replied, “[j]ust a little bit”. It was unbelievable that Tan would have travelled all the way from Malaysia to Singapore just to deliver “a little bit” of groceries (at [53]).(c) Third, Reduan would always collect the groceries from Tan by himself and would only ask Nazeeha to do so if he was not in the Flat. As Nazeeha acknowledged, the collection on 23 September 2016 was the first time that Reduan had sent her to pick up groceries from Tan even though Reduan was in the Flat (at [53]).(d) Fourth, Tan had purchased only food items on Reduan’s and Nazeeha’s behalf on previous occasions. Nazeeha also confirmed that the delivery of detergent was a departure from Tan’s usual deliveries of food items (at [54]).(e) Fifth, Nazeeha testified that Tan would usually deliver three to four plastic bags worth of groceries. She agreed that the delivery on 23 September 2016 was unusual because it concerned only the single Paper Bag which contained only the Daia Box (at [54]).(f) Sixth, as far as grocery deliveries were concerned, Reduan would leave about $200 in cash on the table for Nazeeha to pass to Tan as payment.  If Nazeeha did not know that the Envelope contained money, as she claimed, it was curious that on 23 September 2016, she did not ask Reduan for money to pay Tan for purchasing and delivering groceries to them. Her omission to do so strongly suggested that she knew that the Envelope contained money and that she was collecting methamphetamine, not groceries, from Tan (at [55]).(g) Seventh, Tan had left the Paper Bag containing the Daia Box along a pavement for Nazeeha to collect instead of passing her the Paper Bag directly. This must surely have alerted her to the fact that the Paper Bag did not contain groceries (at [56]).13 Given the extremely unusual circumstances of the delivery on 23 September 2016, the fact that Nazeeha’s suspicions were not aroused and she did not check the contents of the Daia Box led to the inference that she knew that the Daia Box contained not groceries but methamphetamine (at [52] and [57]).14 Reduan’s account and Tan’s statements indicated that Nazeeha knew that the Envelope contained money (at [58]). Although Nazeeha claimed that she did not see the words “Ong Salary for e Month September” on the Envelope, the Court found that her claims were fabricated in order to disavow any knowledge of the Drugs (at [59]). 15 The Court reiterated that the burden was on Nazeeha to prove on a balance of probabilities that she did not know the nature of the Drugs. Her denial of any knowledge of the Drugs, as well as the fact that Tan and Reduan did not implicate her, were insufficient for her to discharge her burden of proof in the face of the overwhelming evidence that she knew that the Daia Box contained methamphetamine (at [61]).16 The Court also dismissed Nazeeha’s appeal against sentence (at [69]). The Judge had properly considered the various factors raised by Nazeeha and Nazeeha’s sentence was consistent with the sentencing precedents (at [68]). In fact, in the light of the evidence indicating that Nazeeha had actively assisted Reduan in his drug trafficking, her sentence of 24 years’ imprisonment could be said to be relatively lenient (at [68]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
