
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 June 2021Case summaryJane Rebecca Ong v Lim Lie Hoa and other appeals and other matters [2021] SGCA 63 Civil Appeals Nos 116, 190, 191 and 192 of 2020 and Summonses Nos 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA allows appeals against High Court’s decision to strike out claim and provides framework for cases involving the Riddick principle. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Riddick undertaking is an expression of the doctrine of abuse of process and is the lever to regulate the use of documents for other proceedings (at [138]).•  Situations involving the Riddick principle may broadly be classified under three categories and should be approached using the framework set out in these Grounds of Decision (at [99]). The three-stage inquiry involves different conceptual considerations at each stage.•  The Riddick undertaking would generally apply to documents obtained from examination of judgment debtor proceedings, because a judgment debtor discloses information and documents in such proceedings on compulsion (at [103]–[106]).•  In certain situations, documents protected by the Riddick undertaking may nevertheless be used in separate proceedings without the leave of court. This depends on the nature of the proceedings in which (a) the documents were disclosed and (b) the documents are being used (at [112]–[114]).•  Section 327 and section 401 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 (Act 40 of 2018) operate as conjunctive requirements. Both provisions must be satisfied for litigation to continue in the administration of a bankruptcy (at [72]).Background to the appeals1 There were four inter-related appeals and six applications before the Court. The appellant in all four appeals is Jane Rebecca Ong. The respondent in CA/CA 116/2020 (“CA 116”) and CA/CA 190/2020 (“CA 190”) is the estate (“the Estate”) of the late Mdm Lim Lie Hoa (“Mdm Lim”), who was the appellant’s mother-in-law prior to the appellant’s divorce in 1988. Ong Siauw Ping (“OSP”) is one of Mdm Lim’s sons and the sole executor of the Estate. He is the respondent in CA/CA 191/2020 (“CA 191”) and CA/CA 192/2020 (“CA 192”).2 On 14 May 2019, the appellant commenced examination of judgment debtor (“EJD”) proceedings against the Estate. She sought to recover a long-standing judgment debt of about S$911,705.54 including accrued interest, owed to her by the Estate in BC 118/2006 (“BC 118”). In the EJD proceedings, OSP, in his capacity as executor of the Estate, filed four affidavits (“the EJD documents”).3 On 14 January 2020, using the information in the EJD documents, the appellant commenced HC/S 47/2020 (“Suit 47”) against OSP in his personal capacity as well as in his capacity as executor of the Estate, alleging breaches of the duties he owed to the Estate. These breaches involved the alleged misappropriation of three properties of the Estate (“the Estate’s properties”) and the rental income from these properties. The appellant applied for summary judgment in Suit 47, and OSP applied to strike out the appellant’s statement of claim. OSP alleged that the appellant had used the EJD documents to commence Suit 47 in violation of the principle in Riddick v Thames Board Mills Ltd [1977] QB 881 (“Riddick”). The appellant then filed HC/SUM 1237/2020 (“SUM 1237”) seeking a declaration that she was entitled to use the EJD documents in Suit 47 without the leave of court (“Prayer 1”), or alternatively for the leave of court to be granted (“Prayer 2”).4 Prayer 1 of SUM 1237 was heard and dismissed by the judge below (“the Judge”). The Judge directed Prayer 2 of SUM 1237 and the summary judgment and striking out applications to be heard by an Assistant Registrar. The applications were dismissed by the Assistant Registrar. The appellant appealed against the Assistant Registrar’s decisions via HC/RA 157, 158 and 159/2020 (“RA 157”, “RA 158” and “RA 159”). The three appeals were dismissed by the Judge. As a result, the appellant was not allowed to use the EJD documents in Suit 47, and Suit 47 was consequently struck out for abuse of process. No order was made on the summary judgment application in light of the striking out of Suit 47.5 CA 116 was the appeal against the Judge’s decision in respect of Prayer 1 of SUM 1237. CA 190 was the appeal against the Judge’s decision in RA 157. CA 191 was the appeal against the Judge’s decision in RA 158 to strike out Suit 47. CA 192 was the appeal against the Judge’s decision to make “no order” in respect of the summary judgment application in RA 159. The four appeals were fixed for hearing before this court on 9 April 2021. 6 On 17 December 2020, shortly after CA 190–192 were filed on 4 November 2020, the appellant applied for the administration of the bankruptcy of the Estate. The sum in question in the application, which landed the Estate in bankruptcy, was S$1,038,511.01. This sum arose from the amounts owed to the appellant in BC 118, with accrued interest. On 4 March 2021, the High Court ordered the administration of the bankruptcy of the Estate. Seshadri Rajagopalan and Paresh Tribhovan Jotangia were appointed as joint and several private trustees of the Estate (“the PTs”). The PTs consented to their appointment on 9 March 2021.7 Following directions from the Court, the appellant filed CA/SUM 34–37/2021 (“SUM 34” to “SUM 37” respectively) on 26 March 2021, seeking to stay the four appeals under the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 (Act 40 of 2018) (“IRDA”) on the basis of the Estate’s bankruptcy. On 30 March 2021, OSP filed CA/SUM 38 and 39/2021 (“SUM 38” and “SUM 39” respectively), applying for leave to intervene in CA 116 and 190 as a non-party.8 On 27 May 2021, the Court heard the four appeals and six applications. CA 190 and 191 were allowed. CA 116 and SUM 34–37 were dismissed. CA 192 and SUM 38 and 39 were withdrawn with the leave of court and with no orders as to costs. As a result:a. the appellant was granted leave to use the EJD documents in Suit 47;b. Suit 47 was restored; andc. the summary judgment application was restored to be heard by the High Court.The Court’s grounds of decision9 The appeals had been mismanaged. The multiplicity of appeals and applications could be traced to three missteps by the appellant – (a) the failure to make the Estate bankrupt at the earliest opportunity, (b) the failure to seek a declaration or alternatively, leave to use the EJD documents for Suit 47 at the outset prior to commencing Suit 47, and (c) the questionable decision to make the Estate bankrupt on the eve of the appeals after taking the EJD route and commencing a separate action against the Estate’s executor, OSP, for a different cause of action, though the actions ultimately share the same origin, ie, to enforce the judgment debt in BC 118. It was also inappropriate for the Judge to deal with Prayer 1 of SUM 1237 and to direct that Prayer 2 be heard by the Assistant Registrar. Both prayers emanated from the same application and largely engaged the same legal issue (at [54]–[57]).The four appeals10 Cases involving the Riddick principle should be approached using the following framework and may broadly be classified under three categories (at [99]).a. First, one must determine whether, on the basis of the element of compulsion, a document produced in discovery is covered by the Riddick undertaking. If the answer is in the negative, the documents are not protected and may be used without the leave of court. Such scenarios are referred to as the “first category” of situations.b. Next, if the Riddick undertaking applies (due to the element of compulsion), the question is whether, notwithstanding the undertaking, the protected documents may nonetheless be used without leave of court, due to the nature of the related enforcement proceedings for which the documents are being used. This is where the appellant’s argument on Suit 47 being an “enforcement” proceeding is relevant. Such documents are described as being under the “second category” of situations.c. If neither of the above is satisfied, the party relying on the protected documents to commence or sustain related proceedings must seek the court’s leave for the undertaking to be lifted. This will involve a discussion on the factors espoused in Lim Suk Ling Priscilla and another v Amber Compounding Pharmacy Pte Ltd and another and another appeal and another matter [2020] 2 SLR 912 (“Amber Compounding”). Such scenarios may be referred to as the “third category” of situations.11 The first question in any case is whether a document is even protected by the Riddick principle. This turns on whether the documents sought to be used were disclosed on compulsion. The Riddick principle states that a party who discloses a document in discovery in an action under compulsion is entitled to the protection of the court against any use of the document otherwise than in that action (at [100]).12 In general, documents disclosed in EJD proceedings are covered by the Riddick principle. These will not fall under the first category of situations identified in the framework above. EJD proceedings commenced under O 48 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“Rules of Court”) represent an invocation of the coercive powers of the court. Order 48 states that it is the court that orders a judgment debtor to (a) attend before the Registrar and be examined; and (b) produce documents/books as part of EJD proceedings (at [103]–[106]).13 In certain cases, the court has allowed use of documents disclosed in EJD proceedings in subsequent enforcement proceedings without the grant of leave: Timing Ltd v Tay Toh Hin and another [2020] 5 SLR 974; Timing Ltd v Tay Toh Hin and another [2021] SGHC 5; and Leads Engineering (S) Pte Ltd v Chin Choon Co (Pte) Ltd (personal representatives of the estate of Choo Kok Hoe, deceased, garnishee) [2009] SGHC 53. While the court in these decisions did not discuss the Riddick principle, these cases were consistent with, and fall within, the second category of the framework (at [108]–[111]).14 Based on case law, it may be observed that in determining whether related proceedings are “enforcement” proceedings in which documents covered by the Riddick principle may be used without leave, there are two key points of reference (at [112]–[114]). a. First, the nature of the proceedings in which the documents were disclosed. EJD proceedings involve an exercise in obtaining information to assist in the enforcement of a judgment debt. Therefore, there is no question that the judgment debtor would know that information disclosed in the course of such EJD proceedings will be used for subsequent related proceedings. This is to be contrasted with, for example, specific discovery in the course of an action. The party producing documents pursuant to such discovery applications would have the expectation that the said documents would only be used for the purposes of that action. b. Second, the nature of the proceedings in which the said documents are being used. Three factors are relevant when examining the nature of subsequent related proceedings. If a related proceeding complies with these factors, the party using protected documents to commence such proceeding would not require the leave of court, despite the existence of the Riddick undertaking:i. Identity of parties: If the defendant in the related proceeding is also the defendant in the original proceeding in which the documents were obtained, a case may be made that the related proceeding constitutes enforcement against that defendant. The same could be said if the related proceeding is against an entity legally empowered or obliged to make payment on behalf of the said defendant, eg, a bank.ii. Nature of debt: If the sum being pursued in the related proceedings is the same debt that forms the subject matter of the original proceedings in which documents were disclosed, this would indicate that the former set of proceedings is an enforcement of the latter. If, however, the sum being pursued in related proceedings is different, this might suggest that it is a claim de novo, and leave of the court might be required.iii. Nature of related proceedings: The question under this factor is whether the related proceedings can be considered “enforcement” in the ordinary sense, ie, modes of execution or proceedings that facilitate the payment of judgment debts owing to a plaintiff. This is to be determined in the context of the particular case, albeit “traditional” enforcement actions recognised under the Rules of Court (eg, garnishee proceedings) would most likely satisfy this requirement.15 While leave is not required to use the documents that fall in both the first and second category of situations, maintaining the distinction between the two categories is preferable because the inquiries are premised on different conceptual considerations. In addition, if a document falls under the second category, the Riddick undertaking nonetheless endures and will continue to cover the documents in question. The appropriate way to understand cases falling under the second category is that the specific use of the documents in the related enforcement proceeding is not a breach of the Riddick undertaking, because the protected documents are being used for the very purpose for which they were sought. There is therefore no abuse of process. While such documents can be used for enforcement proceedings, it may not be permissible to use them in another distinct set of civil/criminal proceedings without the leave of court (at [115] and [116]).16 If documents in question fall within neither the first nor the second category, leave of the court is required (at [117]).CA 11617 In this case, the EJD documents were covered by the Riddick undertaking because they were disclosed by OSP on compulsion during the EJD proceedings. The present case hence did not fall under the first category. a. The appellant argued that OSP filed his affidavits voluntarily. This was an artificial distinction. OSP might have filed his affidavits voluntarily, but that did not detract from the coercive nature of the EJD proceedings, which compel a judgment debtor and its officers to assist in clarifying the assets of the debtor (at [118]–[120] and [124]).b. The Court rejected the appellant’s argument that because an EJD order is a post-judgment order, the Riddick principle would not apply. This was another artificial distinction. Pre- or post-judgment, the element of compulsion remains (at [123]).18 Suit 47 was not an enforcement proceeding, and the present case hence did not fall under the second category. a. The case relied on by the appellant, Re Mohan Bhagwandas v Murjani [1991] HKCFI 135, was distinguishable. In that case, both the EJD and bankruptcy proceedings concerned the enforcement of the same debt and against the same judgment debtor. Hence, the facts there would fall within the second or third categories (at [125]–[127]).b. In the present case, because the EJD documents were disclosed in the course of the EJD proceedings, the Estate had knowledge that the EJD documents would most likely be used in subsequent related enforcement proceedings. However, Suit 47 could not be considered an enforcement proceeding. BC 118 and the EJD proceedings were strictly against the Estate, while Suit 47 was against OSP. Suit 47 was also in respect of a different cause of action. The appellant sought to use the EJD documents to sue OSP for different reliefs, including damages in his personal capacity, and not directly to enforce the costs order in BC 118. Finally, Suit 47, as a pending civil suit, did not fall within any of the modes of execution under O 45 of the Rules of Court and did not, in and of itself, compel payment in satisfaction of the debt in BC 118 (at [128]–[131]).19 CA 116 was accordingly dismissed, as the EJD documents could not be used without the leave of court. The present case fell into the third category of the framework.CA 19020 The Riddick undertaking is ultimately an expression of the doctrine of abuse of process. It is the lever to regulate the use of documents for other proceedings. This is precisely the reason why the inquiry as to whether the use and/or procurement of documents was motivated by a collateral or improper purpose is critical. Where collateral or improper motives exist, the court will intervene to ensure its processes are not being insidiously invoked (at [137]–[138]).21 A collateral or improper purpose in commencing disclosure or discovery proceedings is the hallmark of an abuse of process in situations involving a breach of the Riddick undertaking. Consequently, the Riddick undertaking, as an expression of the doctrine of abuse of process, would apply with full force where such purposes exist. It is the commencement of the proceedings leading to the disclosure/discovery, and the manner of use of the discovered documents, that present the focal points of the inquiry (at [141]–[146]).22 An applicant seeking to use documents protected by the Riddick undertaking bears the burden of demonstrating that there was no abuse of process. He or she must satisfy the court that the series of events which led to the discovery of the documents were not set into motion improperly. If the plaintiff had acted bona fide throughout, it would not be difficult to discharge this burden, given that the plaintiff would be in the best position to adequately explain his or her own purposes and motives (at [149] and [150]).23 The balance of interests in this case militated in favour of lifting the Riddick undertaking. First, the appellant did not commence the EJD proceedings with a collateral purpose. On the evidence available, no improper purpose on the part of the appellant was borne out. The appellant in initiating the EJD proceedings was simply seeking to recover a long outstanding legitimate judgment debt which has in fact been partially paid. Upon discovering the information in the EJD documents, the appellant was then motivated by the real concern that the Estate’s assets had been dissipated, and that she would be left with a paper judgment. She thus commenced Suit 47, having considered this to be the best option after reviewing the EJD documents (at [152] and [153]).24 Secondly, the EJD documents were being meaningfully used to support related proceedings, namely BC 118. It was not the mere existence of related proceedings, but the unique circumstances of the present case, that warranted a lifting of the Riddick undertaking. It was plainly arguable that OSP, as the sole executor of the Estate, had been dissipating the Estate’s assets to the detriment of the Estate and its creditors. Suit 47 was commenced to specifically address this issue (at [155]–[161]).25 None of the other countervailing considerations militating against a lifting of the Riddick undertaking were present (at [163]–[165]). 26 CA 190 was accordingly allowed, and the Court lifted the Riddick undertaking over the EJD documents. The appellant was allowed to use these documents in Suit 47.CA 191 and 19227 CA 191 was allowed. The respondents accepted that CA 191, the appeal against the striking out order upheld by the Judge, would follow the outcome of CA 190. Suit 47 was accordingly restored (at [176] and [177]).28 The appellant withdrew CA 192 with no order as to costs (at [178] and [179]).Concluding observations on Suit 4729 The net effect of all the appeals and the related applications was that the appellant was permitted to use the EJD documents for the purpose of her action against OSP in Suit 47. However, the appellant’s ultimate aim was to recover the judgment debt in BC 118. Given the Estate’s present bankruptcy, which had been commenced under the aegis of the debt in BC 118, it was questionable whether the appellant had any independent cause of action against OSP other than to recover the debt in BC 118 from the Estate. These are matters which will be fully ventilated and explored by the Judge during the rehearing of the summary judgment application and, if matters proceed, in Suit 47 (at [180]–[186]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
