
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 June 2021Case summaryParti Liyani v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 146 Magistrate’s Appeal No 9068 of 2019/01--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Chan Seng Onn):Outcome: High Court dismisses Parti Liyani’s application for compensation since the prosecution was not “frivolous or vexatious”. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The subject of what is “frivolous or vexatious” envisaged in s 359(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code (“CPC”) is the decision to prosecute and continue prosecution.  The provision does not address the conduct of the prosecutors at trial. The prosecutors’ conduct may only be of evidential value if it shows a lack of good faith or malice which renders the decision to prosecute and/or continue prosecution “frivolous or vexatious”: at [93], [110] and [111]. •  There is no exhaustive definition of “frivolous or vexatious”. The touchstone of the inquiry is the evidential sufficiency of the commencement and continuation of the prosecution. The court will ask whether an objective reasonable DPP would have considered that there was sufficient evidence to render the case fit to be tried before the court. While the analysis as to the sufficiency of evidence is predominantly objective, the overall inquiry as to whether the prosecution was “frivolous or vexatious” has both objective and subjective elements. There is no requirement to prove malice or dishonesty to show “frivolous or vexatious” prosecution. However, the existence of malice, dishonesty or improper motives may well be considered vexatious: at [115], [116], [125] and [126].  •  The burden of proving that the prosecution was “frivolous or vexatious” lies on the applicant under s 359(3) of the CPC and the standard of proof is on a balance of probabilities: at [128] to [131].Background to the application1 The applicant, Parti Liyani, had been convicted in the lower court of one charge of theft as a servant under s 381 of the Penal Code and three charges of theft in dwelling under s 380 of the Penal Code. She was sentenced to a total of 26 months’ imprisonment. 2 On appeal to the High Court, this court allowed her appeal and acquitted her of those charges. Parti then applied to be compensated for the statutory maximum of $10,000 under s 359(3) of the CPC by the respondent, the Public Prosecutor (“Prosecution”), on the basis that her prosecution was “frivolous or vexatious”. The applicant made several assertions pertaining to the manner in which the prosecutors had conducted the trial against Parti (in terms of the questions put, objections raised and submissions made) and its reliance on particular evidence (such as Parti’s statements, Karl Liew’s testimony and the Pioneer DVD Player).3 The central question was the proper interpretation of the scope and meaning of s 359(3) of the CPC. Assistant Professor, Benjamin Joshua Ong, was appointed to assist the court as amicus curiae under the Young Amicus Curiae Scheme. The court’s decisionThe meaning of “the prosecution was frivolous or vexatious” in s 359(3) of the CPC4 In determining the scope and meaning of s 359(3) of the CPC, a three-stage framework is applied (Tan Cheng Bock v Attorney-General [2017] 2 SLR 850 at [37] and [54]):a) First, the court will ascertain the possible interpretations of the provision, having regard not just to the text of the provision but also to the context of that provision within the written law as a whole. b) Second, the court will ascertain the legislative purpose or object of the statutory provision in question.c) Third, the court will compare the possible interpretations of the text against the purposes or objects of the statute. The interpretation which furthers the purpose of the written text should be preferred to the interpretation which does not. 5 At the first stage, the court accepted that there were two possible interpretations of “the prosecution” in s 359(3) of the CPC: (a) the decision to prosecute and continue prosecuting (“Interpretation 1”); or (b) the entire process of prosecution including the decision to prosecute and continue prosecuting as well as the conduct of the prosecutors during the proceedings (“Interpretation 2”). As regards the meaning of “frivolous or vexatious”, the court accepted that it could have the same meaning as malicious prosecution, in which case it is necessary for malice or dishonesty to be proven, or it could cover a variety of situations in which malicious or dishonest prosecution is but one instance of “frivolous or vexatious” prosecution: at [52] and [78] to [80].6 At the second stage, the court held that the legislative purpose of s 359(3) of the CPC is to define a legal wrong, “frivolous or vexatious” prosecution, which delineates the circumstances of when the bringing or continuing of a prosecution is so wrong that compensation ought to follow. The purpose is not to simply create a convenient and alternative procedure for accused persons who are acquitted to obtain compensation by proving the torts of malicious prosecution or false imprisonment: at [85].7 At the third stage, the court held that Interpretation 1 best furthers the legislative purpose of s 359(3) of the CPC. A prosecution that is brought against an accused person in good faith and with sufficient evidence such that the case is fit to be tried before the court does not become a “frivolous or vexatious” prosecution simply because the prosecutor’s conduct at the proceedings was unacceptable. The conduct of the prosecutors may only be of evidential value if it shows a lack of bona fides or malice which renders the decision to commence prosecution and/or continue prosecution “frivolous or vexatious”: at [93], [110] to [111].8 The court held that “frivolous or vexatious” in s 359(3) of the CPC does not have the same meaning as the tort of malicious prosecution. There is no need to prove malice or dishonesty. However, the existence of malice, dishonesty or improper motives may well render a prosecution vexatious. The touchstone of the inquiry is the evidential sufficiency of the commencement and continuation of the prosecution. The court will ask, based on the evidence the Prosecution had at the relevant time, whether an objective reasonable DPP would have considered that there was sufficient evidence to render the case fit to be tried before the court. The omission of a “no case to answer” submission by the Defence and the trial judge’s objective view, in calling the defence, that the Haw Tua Tau test is satisfied are good indicators (though not determinative) that the prosecution was not “frivolous or vexatious”. The overall inquiry as to whether the prosecution was “frivolous or vexatious” has both objective and subjective elements: at [113], [116], [117], [118], [120], [125] and [126]. 9 The burden of proving that the prosecution was “frivolous or vexatious” lies on the applicant under s 359(3) of the CPC and the standard of proof is on a balance of probabilities. An assertion that the prosecution was “frivolous or vexatious” is a serious and grave one. Especially where malice, dishonesty or improper motives are alleged against the Prosecution, the gravity of these allegations must be part of the whole range of circumstances that has to be weighed by the court when deciding as to the balance of probabilities: at [128] to [131].Whether the prosecution was frivolous or vexatious in this case10 It will be helpful for the applicant to specify the stage at which the applicant asserts that the prosecution was frivolous or vexatious. It is at that stage that the court will inquire whether an objective reasonable DPP would have considered that there was sufficient evidence (including admissible evidence available to the DPP but not yet adduced) to render the case fit to be tried before the court. The court must not be distracted by hindsight reasoning: at [136].11 The assertions Parti made may be categorised into three groups: (a) assertions against the prosecutor’s conduct of the proceedings; (b) assertions against the sufficiency of evidence supporting the commencement and continuation of Parti’s prosecution; and (c) assertions of malice or dishonesty. On the merits, the court held that the assertions made failed to meet the high threshold for establishing that Parti’s prosecution was frivolous or vexatious: at [137].12 Parti’s assertions against the DDPs’ conduct of the proceedings pertained to their taking issue with the post-offence conduct of Parti and her representatives, failure to objectively value the items, cross-examination questions, late disclosure of evidence and objections to the introduction of evidence of illegal deployment. The court was not satisfied that any of them, even seen cumulatively, showed that Parti’s prosecution was frivolous or vexatious. These assertions mainly related to Parti’s dissatisfaction with how the DPPs conducted the proceedings. However, this court is not the correct forum to air grievances about the DPPs’ conduct. Mere dissatisfaction with different aspects of how the prosecutors had conducted the proceedings, even if they are numerous, will not, without more, render the prosecution “frivolous or vexatious”: at [138] to [141].13 Parti’s assertions against the sufficiency of evidence pertained to the DPPs proceeding on the charge under s 381 of the Penal Code and continuing the prosecution on the other charges despite the police statements that were unreliable and improperly procured, the break in the chain of custody of some of the stolen items, Karl’s lack of credibility, the serious risk of contamination of evidence owing to the Black Bag and contradictory evidence regarding the Philips DVD player. The court accepted that the evidence of the Liew family and the inculpatory parts of the statements given by Parti were sufficient to justify the commencement of proceedings. The defence did not make a “no case to answer” submission and the trial judge called for the Parti’s defence. The court agreed with the trial judge that the Haw Tua Tau test was satisfied. While the charge framed under s 381 of the Penal Code was flawed due to an oversight regarding the date of Parti’s termination of employment, the evidential basis for the assertion that Parti had committed theft was not affected. The other assertions made were largely based on the findings of this Court in acquitting Parti. However, the court must not undertake the inquiry based on hindsight. None of the assertions showed any new developments during the continuation of proceedings that irrefutably undermined the Prosecution’s case such that the prosecution ought to have been discontinued: at [143] to [148]. 14 Parti’s assertions of malice or dishonesty on the part of the Prosecution was based on the DPPs’ conduct of the trial, their alleged withholding of evidence on the functionality of the Pioneer DVD player and their repeated objections to the introduction of evidence of illegal deployment. The court held that the assertions did not show any dishonesty, malice or improper motive on the Prosecution’s part to embarrass the defence. The DPPs’ arguments with regard to Parti’s post-offence conduct were, in their view, relevant to either Parti’s conviction or sentencing. There was no evidence to suggest that the Prosecution had any deliberate or insidious motive to make late disclosure of the photo or video evidence in order to impede the defence’s preparation for trial. With regard to the Pioneer DVD Player, even on the assumption that that the DPPs failed to disclose the defect in the functionality of the Pioneer DVD player, this did not mean that Parti’s prosecution was frivolous or vexatious. The functionality of the Pioneer DVD player is related to only one aspect of one item in one of the charges. This assertion did not undermine the evidential basis of Parti’s prosecution which was Mr Liew’s evidence that these items were his and had been stolen from him. The mere fact that the DPPs objected to the introduction of evidence relating to Parti’s illegal deployment did not show any malice or a lack of good faith: at [149] to [159].15 After considering the cumulative effect of all of Parti’s assertions, the court found that Parti had not proven on a balance of probability that her prosecution was frivolous or vexatious. As such, the court dismissed Parti’s application for compensation under s 359(3) of the CPC: at [171]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
