
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
7 June 2021
Case summary
Fu Hao v Evancarl Limited and another [2021] SGHC 137 
Suit No 298 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Lee Seiu Kin):
Outcome: High Court awards over S$7 million in damages for breach of two share procurement agreements and a deed.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

Where a party pleads an overarching agreement as merely forming the background facts to the written agreements, this agreement is not a separate agreement: at [86].
From the Court of Appeal’s decision in Lim Zhipeng v Seow Suat Thin and another matter [2020] 2 SLR 1151, a person who has executed a document that states it has been “signed, sealed and delivered” would, in the usual course, be estopped from denying the sealing if he has delivered the document to the other party knowing that the latter will rely on the document and that party did indeed rely on it to its detriment; for a party to rely on this argument, that party would have to first plead estoppel. However, that party cannot be expected to plead estoppel if the other party did not first plead that the deed was not sealed: at [107].
The onus is on the executing party to deliver a deed to the intended beneficiary to satisfy the requisite formalities of a deed, and the latter does not have to further procure the delivery of the deed back to the former: at [109] to [111].
In a case of breach of contract for failing to deliver shares by a stipulated date, the measure of damages would be based on the market price of the shares at the contractual time of delivery as a starting point: at [134] to [145].
The issue of whether a premium reflecting the party’s control over the company in purchasing of a controlling stake should be applied on top of the market price of the shares can only be decided with the aid of expert evidence: [146].
Where one party agrees to grant the other party in breach of his obligations under the contract more time to fulfil those obligations on a without prejudice basis, that additional period of time will not be taken into account when determining the date at of the applicable market price: at [148].

Background to the dispute
1 The plaintiff, Fu Hao, had a majority and controlling stake in Sincap Group Limited (“SGL”), which was the holding company of Beijing Sino-Lonther International Trading Co., Ltd (“SL”) and Shandong Luneng Taishan Mining Co., Ltd (“LTM”).
2 The plaintiff claims that there were five written agreements (“Written Agreements”) concluded pursuant to an overarching agreement (“Alleged Overarching Agreement”). Under two sale and purchase agreements (the “1st SPA” and “2nd SPA” respectively), the plaintiff was to sell 90,000,000 SGL shares, which was a majority and controlling stake to Zheng Jiabin (“Zheng”) and his company, Evancarl Limited (“Evancarl”), the defendants. The purpose of this sale was for Zheng to execute a reverse takeover of SGL (“RTO”). Thereafter, under one of the Written Agreements known as the “1st Procurement Agreement”, Evancarl was to procure the transfer of SGL’s shares in SL and LTM to the plaintiff. Zheng personally guaranteed this obligation under a deed (“Deed”). Under another one of the Written Agreements known as the “2nd Procurement Agreement”, Zheng was to procure the transfer of 12,226,500 SGL shares to the plaintiff.
3 Subsequently, the plaintiff transferred his entire shareholding in another company that he controlled, which owned 45,999,900 SGL shares, to one Simson Kwok. The plaintiff also transferred 44,000,100 SGL shares to one Joseph Yeo. The plaintiff claims that this was in performance of the 1st SPA and 2nd SPA, and that Simson Kwok and Joseph Yeo are Zheng’s nominees.
4 Because the defendants did not perform their obligations under the 1st Procurement Agreement, 2nd Procurement Agreement, and the Deed, the plaintiff commenced an action in breach of contract against the defendants and claims damages arising therefrom.
5 Zheng denied the existence of the Alleged Overarching Agreement. He only accepted that the existence of the 1st SPA and that Simson Kwok was his nominee. He claimed that the 1st Procurement Agreement, the 2nd Procurement Agreement, and the Deed were sham agreements. In the alternative, he claimed that they were illegal and thus void and enforceable.
6 As for the issue of damages, the defendants did not dispute the applicability of the damages clause and the liquidated damages clause in the 1st Procurement Agreement, which was cll 3.3 and 5 of that agreement respectively. However, they did dispute the applicability of the damages clause in the 2nd Procurement Agreement, which was cl 8 of that agreement. They submitted that cl 8 was unenforceable for want of certainty because it provided for the “actual cost” of the plaintiff acquiring the 12,226,500 SGL shares in the shortest possible time from the market, but the plaintiff did not actually go to acquire these shares from the market. Thus, an issue arose to the applicable measure of damages if cl 8 did not apply.
The court’s decision
7 The court found that the Alleged Overarching Agreement exists: at [87]. The evidence showed that (a) the parties did contemplate that an RTO would be implemented by Zheng using SGL at the time of entering into the Written Agreements, (b) the 1st Procurement Agreements were not sham agreements, and (c) Joseph Yeo was the defendants’ nominee: at [62], [71] and [82]. 
8 It was important to note that the Alleged Overarching Agreement was the backdrop leading to the five Written Agreements, so the defendants’ argument premised on entire agreement clauses in some of these agreements was a non-starter: at [86].
9 Because the Alleged Overarching Agreement exists, the court found that the parties did enter into the 1st Procurement Agreement, 2nd Procurement Agreement, and the Deed with the intention to be bound: at [90] to [93].
10 The court found that no situation of past consideration invalidating the 1st Procurement Agreement, 2nd Procurement Agreement and the Deed arises. It was sufficient that the agreements were entered into contemporaneously, ie, at or around the same time: at [94] to [103].
11 The court found that the Deed was valid because it was signed, sealed and delivered. The defendants dispute the sealing and the delivery of the Deed. 
12 In respect of sealing, the defendants did not plead this point and that was sufficient to dispose of the issue: at [106]. Nevertheless, the court made an observation regarding one of the defendants’ arguments at trial. In the Court of Appeal’s decision Lim Zhipeng v Seow Suat Thin and another matter [2020] 2 SLR 1151, a person who has executed a document that states it has been “signed, sealed and delivered” would, in the usual course, be estopped from denying the sealing if he has delivered the document to the other party knowing that the latter will rely on the document and that party did indeed rely on it to its detriment. In that case, the court stated that for a party to rely on this argument, that party would have to first plead estoppel. Here, because the defendants did not plead that the Deed was not sealed to begin with, there was no need for the plaintiff to rely on an estoppel: at [107].
13 In respect of delivery, the court found that the onus was on Zheng, the executing party, to deliver the Deed to the plaintiff, the intended beneficiary, and the latter did not have to further procure the delivery of the deed back to the former: [109] to [111].
14 The court found that the Alleged Overarching Agreement is not illegal as Zheng was obliged to fulfil his obligations under the 1st Procurement Agreement, 2nd Procurement Agreement, and the Deed in full compliance with any regulatory or legal requirement: at [118] and [120].
15 From the above, the court found that the 1st Procurement Agreement, the 2nd Procurement Agreement and the Deed, were breached: at [121] to [123].
16 In respect of the 1st Procurement Agreement and the Deed, it was undisputed the quantum of damages was provided by cll 3.3 and 5 of the 1st Procurement Agreement. This yielded a sum of $6,416,589 that was due and payable: at [124] to [129].
17 In respect of the 2nd Procurement Agreement, the court held that, regardless of whether cl 8 applied, the applicable measure of damages was the same. 
18 As a starting point, the measure of damages would be computed using the market price of the SGL at the date of the breach: at [134] to [145]. 
19 Next, a control premium or a block discount was not applicable on the facts. A control premium would be applied to a purchase of shares where these shares would give the buyer the ability to affect or extract value from one way or another. A block discount would be applied to a sale of shares where the block is so large relative to normal trading volume that either an instant sale would be at a discounted price compared to the prevailing market or else it would take a long time to sell. The plaintiff conceded that whether a control premium was applicable can only be decided with the aid of expert evidence: at [146]. The issue of whether a block discount should be applied did not arise in this case as the facts concerned the purchase of shares by the plaintiff, as opposed to a sale: at [146].
20 Lastly, there was no need to postpone the date at which the market price is determined even though the plaintiff allowed Zheng additional time to comply with his obligations under the 2nd Procurement Agreement. This was because the plaintiff did so on a without prejudice basis, and had thereby reserved his right to argue that the date of breach was the relevant date for determining the market price of the SGL shares: at [147] to [148].
21 The court thus found that the quantum of damages flowing from the breach of the 2nd Procurement Agreement was S$806,949: at [149].
22 The court awarded the total sum of S$7,223,538 in damages to the plaintiff, with interest on that sum: at [150].
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
