
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 October 2023Case summaryCOT v COU and others and other appeals [2023] SGCA 31Civil Appeal Nos. 12, 13 and 15 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeals against decision refusing to set aside arbitral award. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In cases where the party seeking the setting aside remedy alleges that no contract was concluded between the parties, it is well-established that the seat court undertakes a de novo review. The seat court then faces the challenge of navigating the thin line between a merits examination and the policy of minimal intervention: at [29].•  A seat court hearing a setting aside application premised on the absence of a binding contract need only concern itself with whether such a contract existed. While some analysis of the terms may be necessary to determine which parties were parties to the contract, the court hearing the setting aside application only needs to determine such terms on a prima facie basis for this precise purpose. The seat court does not need to identify the full scope of the terms and obligations contained in the contract and the parties’ liability under those terms; those are questions reserved for the tribunal: at [39].•  Based on the plain wording of the non-disposal undertaking (“NDU”) and the events that occurred during the negotiations from 15 to 18 March 2016, it was clear that the parties had reached an agreement that included the third version of the NDU (“NDU-3”), and that NDU-3 and the arbitration agreement contained therein was binding on all the appellants: at [56].Background to the appeal1 An arbitral award (“the Award”) was issued in favour of the first respondent in the appeals (“the Claimant”). The appellants sought to set aside the Award on the grounds that: (a) there was no valid arbitration agreement; (b) the arbitral tribunal (“the Tribunal”) exceeded the scope of its jurisdiction; and (c) the Tribunal breached the rules of natural justice. 2 The judge below (“the Judge”) dismissed the appellants’ applications to set aside the Award, finding that none of these grounds were made out.Facts3 The Claimant produced and supplied a type of technologically advanced and high-value industrial product worldwide (“the Modules”). At the material time, the appellants were members of the same multinational group of companies (“the Rohan Group”). The appellant in CA/CA 12/2022 (“the Project Company”) was a special purpose vehicle incorporated for the sole purpose of owning and operating an infrastructure project in Gondor (“the Project”). The arbitration arose out of the Project. The appellant in CA/CA 15/2022 (“the EPC Company”) constructed and commissioned infrastructure projects for the Rohan Group in Gondor. The appellant in CA/CA 13/2022 (“the Shareholder Company”) held 99.99% of the shares in both the Project Company and the EPC Company. In late 2016, the Shareholder Company sold the Project Company and the EPC Company. The Procurement Company was the Rohan Group’s centralised procurement arm.4 The Modules needed to complete the Project were supplied by the Claimant to the Project Company through a chain of contracts entered into in 2015 and 2016, under which the Claimant sold the Modules to the Procurement Company, who in turn sold the Modules to the EPC Company. The EPC Company then sold the Modules to the Project Company. By March 2016, as the Claimant had not received payment for the Modules, the Claimant indicated that it would suspend all further deliveries of the Modules until full payment for the delivered Modules was received.5 Between 15 to 18 March 2016, representatives from the Claimant and the Rohan Group negotiated the unpaid invoices and the delivery of the remaining Modules (“the March 2016 Negotiations”). The object of the negotiations was the NDU. On 17 March 2016, NDU-3 was signed and executed by a director of the Shareholder Company and the Project Company. Clause 9 of NDU-3 provided that disputes under the NDU which could not be resolved amicably were to be submitted to arbitration.6 On 18 March 2016, the Claimant released the remaining Modules. On 22 March 2016, the EPC Company paid ₴5.06m to the Procurement Company. On 25 March 2016, the Procurement Company paid ₴5.06m to the Claimant. Following the return of certain Modules to the Claimant, the sum of ₴7.35m remained due and owing to the Claimant. The Claimant commenced arbitration against the appellants in 2017 to recover this sum. The Tribunal allowed the Claimant’s claim. The Judge dismissed the appellants’ applications to set aside the Award.Decision on appeal7 It is well-established that the seat court, in discharging its supervisory role, strives to uphold arbitral awards. This general approach is guided by the policy of minimal curial intervention, which is grounded in a desire to support, and not to displace, the arbitral process. This desire is in turn underpinned by two principal considerations: first, the finality of the arbitration process must be upheld; second, the seat court recognises that parties, having chosen arbitration as their dispute resolution process and accepted the benefits of party autonomy, must accept its consequences. Thus, the grounds for curial intervention in arbitration proceedings are narrowly circumscribed by statute: at [26]–[27].8 In cases where the party seeking the setting aside remedy alleges that no contract was concluded between the parties, it is well-established that the seat court undertakes a de novo review. The seat court then faces the challenge of navigating the thin line between a merits examination and the policy of minimal intervention: at [29].9 The separability principle only applies to questions of contractual validity and not to contractual formation. If the jurisdictional challenge is premised on the absence of a contract and hence no binding arbitration agreement, the separability principle is simply not engaged: at [30].10 A seat court hearing a setting aside application premised on the absence of a binding contract need only concern itself with whether such a contract existed. While some analysis of the terms may be necessary to determine which parties were parties to the contract, the court hearing the setting aside application only needs to determine such terms on a prima facie basis for this precise purpose. The seat court does not need to identify the full scope of the terms and obligations contained in the contract and the parties’ liability under those terms; those are questions reserved for the tribunal: at [39].11 In determining whether a binding contract was concluded between the parties, the court adopts an objective approach towards the question of contractual formation. The court will consider the entire course of negotiations to determine whether there was a single point in time when the requisite consensus ad idem was reached: at [47]–[48].12 The Tribunal’s finding as regards the concluded Modules Delivery Agreement (“MDA”) was correct. NDU-3 was intended to operate as an appendage of the MDA as it provided additional assurance that the Claimant would be paid for its outstanding invoices: at [52]–[55].13 Based on the plain wording of the NDU and the events that occurred during the March 2016 Negotiations, it was clear that the parties reached an agreement that included NDU-3, and that NDU-3 was binding on all the appellants. The Shareholder Company was a signatory to NDU-3 and therefore a party to NDU-3. NDU-3 also expressly mentioned the appellants and even imposed certain rights and obligations on each of the appellants: at [56]–[58].14 A binding contract was concluded between the parties on 18 March 2016. The agreement was confirmed by the Claimant’s conduct in releasing the remaining Modules shortly thereafter on the same day: at [66].15 The word “we” in the e-mail sent on 15 March 2016 must include the Project Company as the only entity who could draw down on the loan. The word “we” would reasonably refer to all the parties involved in the March 2016 Negotiations and who were under an existing liability to pay for the Modules in the chain of contracts: at [70] and [72].16 The question of whether the Rohan Group executives who took part in the March 2016 Negotiations had the requisite authority to bind the appellants to the MDA was a question on the merits for the Tribunal: at [74].17 There was no merit in the appellants’ challenge on the excess of jurisdiction ground. The Tribunal’s finding that the parties had concluded a part-oral, part-written MDA of which NDU-3 was an appendage was well within the scope of the parties’ submission to arbitration: at [83] and [88].18 There was no merit in the appellants’ arguments that the Tribunal breached the rules of natural justice. First, the Claimant’s case was pleaded from the outset. In any case, the appellants did not suffer any prejudice as they were able to mount a positive case that there was no agreement whatsoever. Second, the appellants’ argument that the Tribunal had failed to decide on matters submitted to it was a non-starter as it was in substance an argument that the Tribunal had erred in its findings of fact. This was not a valid ground of challenge: at [91]–[94].19 Therefore, the Court dismissed the appeals and ordered the appellants to pay costs to the Claimant: at [95]–[96].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
