
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 October 2023Case summaryTan Siew Hui v Lim Lai Soon and others and another appeal [2023] SGHC(A) 32Civil Appeal Nos 74 and 77 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Valerie Thean):Outcome: Appellate Division of the High Court dismisses appeals against decision granting declaration that ex-husband is majority beneficial owner of four related companies but allows the appeals partially in respect of one of the companies.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  While any person whose interests might be affected by a declaration should be before the court, this did not mean that a plaintiff must join everyone whom a defendant alleges has an interest. Otherwise, a defendant could easily put obstacles in a plaintiff’s way by making all kinds of allegations about the interests of others: at [44].•  In considering the contentions as to beneficial interest, the starting point was the legal interest. The Court of Appeal in Chan Yuen Lan v See Fong Mun [2014] 3 SLR 1048 set out a framework for considering contentions of resulting and constructive trust in the context of the financial contribution, common intention and conduct of parties.  In alleging a beneficial interest beyond the legal shareholding, that party bore the burden of proof. The party seeking to rebut various presumptions also bore the burden of proving so: at [46]–[47].•  The Court dismissed the appeals against the Judge’s decision on three of the companies. For the last company incorporated in Thailand, the Court allowed the appeals in part and granted a declaration that Tan Hong Sin (“Johnny”) was the beneficial owner of 45% of the shares and not 49%: at [136].Background to the appeal1 In September 2000, Johnny set up Friendlypack Sdn Bhd (“FP Malaysia”) with the help of his father (“the Father”) and extended family members. In time, three other companies in Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand were acquired: Duramin Sdn Bhd (“Duramin”), Friendlypack (S) Pte Ltd (“FP Singapore”) and Friendlypack (Thailand) Co Ltd (“FP Thailand”). All four companies were collectively referred to as “the Companies”.2 Johnny and Lim Lai Soon (“Mdm Lim”) were married on 16 January 1993. On 22 June 2017, Mdm Lim initiated divorce proceedings against Johnny in Singapore. Interim judgment was granted on 9 January 2018. 3 In subsequent ancillary proceedings, the parties disagreed over whether the shares in the Companies formed part of the pool of matrimonial assets to be divided. Mdm Lim took the position that Johnny was the beneficial owner of most, if not all, of the shares. In contrast, Johnny contended that he owned no beneficial interest even in the shares that were registered in his name because his sister, Tan Siew Hui (“Mary”) and other relatives had provided the seed capital for FP Malaysia. The shares in FP Malaysia were therefore held on trust for the relatives who had provided such seed capital. Johnny also disputed that he owned the shares in the other three companies.4 Mdm Lim sought declaratory relief that Johnny was the beneficial owner of all the shares in the Companies. The Judge declared that Johnny’s beneficial interest in respect of the Companies was: (a) 92.33% of FP Malaysia; (b) 100% of Duramin; (c) 100% of FP Singapore; and (d) 49% of FP Thailand. Mary filed AD/CA 74/2022 to appeal against the Judge’s decision. Johnny and his nephew, Philip Tan Pei Yeanz (“Philip”) (collectively referred to as “the AD 77 Appellants”) filed AD/CA 77/2022 to appeal against the Judge’s decision.Decision on appeal5 While any person whose interests might be affected by a declaration should be before the court, this did not mean that a plaintiff must join everyone whom a defendant alleges to have an interest. Otherwise, a defendant could easily put obstacles in a plaintiff’s way by making all kinds of allegations about the interests of others. The other relatives who the AD 77 Appellants alleged should have been joined to the action were aware of Mdm Lim’s claim, and yet did not apply to include themselves in the action. Johnny too could have joined them but did not. Therefore, Mdm Lim did not need to join any of the other relatives to seek the declaration in question: at [40]–[45].6 The starting point was the legal interest. Absent a declaration of trust or express intention, the financial contribution, common intention and conduct of parties had to be analysed in accordance with the framework set out by the Court of Appeal in Chan Yuen Lan v See Fong Mun [2014] 3 SLR 1048. In alleging a beneficial interest beyond the legal shareholding, that party bore the burden of proof. The party seeking to rebut various presumptions also bore the burden of proving so: at [46]–[47].7 The Court disagreed with the appellants that the Judge had reversed the burden of proof when he found that Johnny and Mary had failed to prove their defences. The legal burden of proving that Johnny was the beneficial owner of most, if not all, the shares rested on Mdm Lim. Since the Judge was of the view that there was sufficient evidence to support Mdm Lim’s case, the evidential burden shifted to her opponents to counter her evidence. Johnny and Mary were unable to meet the evidential burden which passed to them: at [50].8 The accounting records of the companies, especially FP Malaysia, were important. However, no such accounting records were produced at trial by Johnny who was running FP Malaysia. The Court was left with indirect evidence: at [58]–[60].9 The Court rejected the AD 77 Appellants’ case that the shares in FP Malaysia were held for the relatives who made some form of financial contribution to FB Malaysia. The AD 77 Appellants were unable to match the incoming money from every one of the relatives with a corresponding issue of shares from FP Malaysia. Moreover, there was clearly no such common intention among the relatives that the shares in FP Malaysia were to be held on trust for each and every one of them: at [61]–[70].10 Johnny was the beneficial owner of the 124,001 shares registered in his name. Given that Johnny was the registered shareholder, the evidential burden was on the appellants to show that Johnny was not the beneficial owner of these shares. The appellants had failed to discharge this burden. On the contrary, the evidence showed that Mary’s alleged loans to FP Malaysia were in fact loans to Johnny personally, who then used the money for his own account vis-à-vis FP Malaysia: at [72]–[81].11 The Court dismissed Mary’s argument that she was the beneficial owner of the 75,000 shares issued to her. No direct evidence was provided in support of her argument that her RM 455,000 loan to FP Malaysia was capitalised by the issuance of those shares. Mdm Lim had proven that these shares belonged beneficially to Johnny: at [84]–[95].12 The 78,001 shares which were initially issued to the Father and subsequently transferred to Mary also beneficially belonged to Johnny. The Father’s contribution of RM 92,000 to FP Malaysia was not an equity contribution but a loan to Johnny. Moreover, any allegation that Mary held the shares on trust for the Father’s grandchildren did not sit well with the primary contention of the AD 77 Appellants that all the shares were held beneficially for the relatives. Mdm Lim had proven that these shares were also beneficially owned by Johnny: at [96]–[107].13 The distribution of the dividends further supported the conclusion that Johnny was the beneficial owner of his and Mary’s shares in FP Malaysia. Not only did the dividend declarations overwhelmingly benefit Johnny, Johnny also appeared to have unfettered control over the dividends: at [108] and [111].14 Beneficial ownership of FP Singapore was 100% held by Johnny. FP Singapore was no more than an extension of FP Malaysia’s business, which Johnny directed as his own. The appellants did not plead that FP Malaysia was the beneficial owner of the shares in FP Singapore. Neither did FP Malaysia assert any interest despite being a party in the action: at [121]–[123].15 Johnny was the beneficial owner of Duramin. Johnny was the registered owner of 99.99% of the shares prior to 25 July 2018 and had extended an unsecured loan to Duramin to purchase land. Again, the appellants did not plead that FP Malaysia was the beneficial owner of the shares in Duramin, and FP Malaysia did not make any claim to the shares despite being a party in the action: at [126]–[127].16 In respect of FP Thailand, there was insufficient evidence to deviate from the legal ownership. The Judge had concluded that Johhny must be taken to have acquired Mary’s 4%; however, there was no evidence as to when or how this took place. Therefore, Johnny was the beneficial owner of 45% of FP Thailand held in his name, and not 49%: at [132].17 The Court declined to vary the costs ordered below. Costs were at the discretion of the Judge. Mary and Johnny had not shown that the Judge erred in ordering indemnity costs against them in view especially of their changing positions: at [134].18 In conclusion, the Court dismissed the appeals against the Judge’s decision on FP Malaysia, FP Singapore and Duramin. The appeals were allowed in part in relation to FP Thailand: a declaration was granted that Johnny was the beneficial owner of 45% of the shares and not 49%: at [136].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
