
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
5 May 2021
Case summary
Prudential Assurance Co Singapore (Pte) Ltd v Tan Shou Yi Peter and another [2021] SGHC 109
Suit No 772 of 2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Chua Lee Ming):
Outcome: High Court holds that the first defendant is liable for breach of his contractual obligation to conduct his insurance business with integrity and honesty. The other claims against the first and second defendants are dismissed. The first defendant’s counterclaims are also dismissed.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

A contractual duty of integrity and honesty requires a contracting party to serve the other contractual party with good faith and undivided interest: at [157].
The relationship between an insurance agent (who acts as an independent contractor to an insurance company) and the insurance company is not a legal relationship of agent and principal, except when explaining the insurance company’s policies to potential clients and assessing the suitability of the policies for the client: at [181] and [182].
Where insurance agents (who are all independent contractors) decide to operate as a group under the leadership of one agent, the agent who is managing the other agents in the group does not, in doing so, owe fiduciary duties to the insurance company: at [188] to [190]. 
A non-disclosure agreement entered into for the purpose of deceiving others and to conceal breaches of contract is entered into for an unlawful purpose. Such an agreement may be rendered unenforceable. The court will not permit the “guilty party” to benefit from his own wrong. To allow a claim founded upon such an agreement would make a mockery of the law: at [277] to [280].

Background 
1 The first defendant, Peter Tan Shou Yi (“Peter”) became an agent of the plaintiff, Prudential Assurance Co Singapore (Pte) Ltd (“PACS”) in 1997 when he signed an Agency Agreement with PACS. In 2001, he was promoted and signed a Field Manager Agreement. He rose through the ranks and eventually became a Group Agency Manager (“GAM”) in 2006 and subsequently a Master GAM in 2011.
2 As a Master GAM, Peter ran Peter Tan Organisation (“PTO”), which was the biggest and most successful group of agents selling insurance products for PACS. PTO contributed approximately 10% of PACS’ entire agency force sales production. As of 2016, there were about 500 agents in PTO.
3 Around mid-April 2016, Peter met with representatives from Aviva Limited (“Aviva”) and explored the idea of him being a consultant with Aviva. Thereafter, several documents, including letters of appointment were sent to Peter. Peter met with Aviva again in early May 2016 to discuss transition packages to be given to any agents who also wished to join Aviva. Aviva subsequently sent Peter draft contracts for agents.
4 At the relevant time, rumours were circulating around the insurance industry that Peter was leaving with agents of PTO to join another insurance company. In late May 2016, Peter assured PACS’ Chief Agency Officer that the rumours were not true. Peter also informed PACS’ Chief Executive Officer that he had no intention to leave PACS.
5 Subsequently, in May and June 2016, Peter met with several of his Agency Leaders (“ALs”) on a few occasions. Peter spoke to these ALs about, among other things, a potential move to Aviva’s subsidiary financial advisory firm, Aviva Financial Advisors Pte Ltd (“AFA”). He also spoke to them about the advantages of joining AFA, the financial package offered by AFA and what the ALs should say to the agents under them. Non-disclosure agreements were signed by the ALs who attended these meetings.
6 On 1 June 2016, Peter incorporated the second defendant, PTO Management and Consultancy Pte Ltd (“PTOMC”). Peter was the sole shareholder and director of PTOMC.
7 On 15 June 2016, 140 agents from PTO gave notices of termination of their agreements with PACS. More agents started giving notices of termination thereafter and by the end of February 2017, a total of 244 agents had terminated their agreements with PACS. Of the 244 agents, 241 of them were from PTO. Peter himself gave his 14-days’ notice of termination on 8 July 2016. On 12 July 2016, PACS terminated Peter’s agreement with the plaintiff for breach of the agreements.
8 On 23 July 2016, Aviva, Peter and PTOMC entered into a Distribution Advisory Agreement under which PTOMC was to be the exclusive provider of certain services to AFA for a period of ten years. These services included, among other things, (a) providing strategic direction and assisting in the development of business plans to grow AFA; (b) providing group training sessions to AFA’s representatives; (c) providing strategic advice and know-how to Aviva on recruitment; and (d) providing strategic advice to Aviva on how to increase Aviva’s market share through AFA and to improve its competitiveness in the market. PTOMC was to engage Peter to perform these services.
9 PACS claimed that Peter took preparatory steps to leave PACS and to bring with him other agents in PTO to join a competitor of PACS, Aviva and/or AFA (“Preparatory Steps”) and solicited agents in PTO to leave PACS and join AFA (“Acts of Solicitation”). PACS submitted that the Preparatory Steps and Acts of Solicitation breached Peter’s express and implied contractual obligations and also fiduciary duties owed to PACS. PACS thus claimed that Peter is liable for damages suffered for these breaches and alternatively, liable for account of all profits made by him and PTOMC (as his alter ego) in breach of his fiduciary duties.
10 PACS also claimed against PTOMC for dishonestly assisting Peter to breach his fiduciary duties and is thus liable to PACS for damages and alternatively, an account of all benefits received by PTOMC as of result of its dishonest assistance.
11 Peter counterclaimed against PACS for (a) wrongful termination of his Agency Agreement with PACS; (b) wrongfully inducing one or more of the ALs who attended the meetings with him to breach their non-disclosure agreements with him; (c) breach of its equitable duty of confidence to him by disclosing the confidential information obtained from one or more of the ALs; and (d) conspiring with one or more of the ALs to cause loss to Peter by unlawful means.
The court's decision
12 The court found that Peter did carry out the Preparatory Steps and Acts of Solicitation. Peter did discuss with Aviva an arrangement involving him (a) procuring agents in PTO to leave PACS to join Aviva and/or AFA; and (b) joining Aviva and/or AFA to train and manage these agents. Peter also solicited his ALs to leave PACS to join AFA and/or asked them to persuade other agents in PTO to do so: at [89] and [106].
13 The High Court found that by undertaking the Preparatory Steps and Acts of Solicitation, Peter had breached his contractual obligation under clause 18(a)(i) of his Agency Agreement (at [194]). However, the court dismissed all other claims by PACS against Peter and PTOMC (at [153], [170], [192], [202]). The court also dismissed all of Peter’s counterclaims: at [267], [292], [295] and [311].
Peter's contractual obligations
14 The court found that Peter had breached his contractual obligation under clause 18(a)(i) of his Agency Agreement, which provided that he shall “conduct his insurance business with integrity and honesty”. This clause required him to serve PACS with good faith and undivided interest. Peter should also not do anything, during the currency of the Agency Agreement, which may harm PACS, including not soliciting PACS’ agents to join a competitor: at [157].
15 The court found that a non-solicitation clause in an Agency Instruction sent out by PACS in September 2010 (“September 2010 AI”) was reasonable and enforceable at least in so far as it prohibited solicitation during the currency of Peter’s Agency Agreement (at [153]). However, the court found that the September 2010 AI was not effective to incorporate the non-solicitation clause into Peter’s Agency Agreement and Field Manager Agreement. According to the terms of Peter’s Agency Agreement and Field Manager Agreement, PACS cannot unilaterally vary or modify these agreements. Since Peter had not agreed to the non-solicitation clause in the September 2010 AI, he was not bound by it: at [108] to [120] and [122] to [127].
16 The court rejected PACS’ argument that there was an implied term in Peter’s Field Manager Agreement that Peter shall not conduct himself in a manner that would likely destroy or seriously damage the relationship of confidence and trust between him and PACS. PACS pleaded the non-solicitation obligation as an example of an obligation under this term. The court found that the three requirements for implication of a term are not satisfied. First, it is unlikely that PACS did not contemplate non-solicitation obligations when it entered into the Field Manager Agreement with Peter. Secondly, it was not necessary to imply the proposed term in order to give the Field Manager Agreement efficacy. Finally, the parties would not have responded “Oh, of course!” had the proposed term been put to them at the time of the contract: at [166] to [170].
Peter's fiduciary duties
17 The court found that the facts do not call for the imposition of fiduciary duties. PACS did not entrust Peter with the management and control of the agents in PTO. His relationship with PACS did not rise beyond that of a purely commercial relationship. They were not in a relationship of mutual trust and confidence that would give rise to a legitimate expectation on PACS’ part that Peter would not utilise his position as Master GAM to act in a way adverse to PACS’ interests: at [190].
18 Since Peter did not owe PACS any fiduciary duty, PACS’ claim against PTOMC for dishonestly assisting Peter in breaching his fiduciary duties was dismissed: at [202].
Peter's counterclaims
19 The court found that PACS was entitled to rely on Peter’s breach of clause 18(a)(i) of his Agency Agreement as a defence against Peter’s counterclaim for wrongful termination of the Agency Agreement: at [267].
20 Peter’s counterclaim against PACS for inducing breaches of the non-disclosure agreements was also dismissed. The court found that the non-disclosure agreements were entered into for the illegal purpose of deceiving PACS and to conceal Peter’s breach of contract. The court also found that striking down the non-disclosure agreements for illegality would not be disproportionate. Further, to allow Peter to bring a claim against PACS founded upon such an agreement would make a mockery of the law: at [277] to [280].
21 In any event, even if the non-disclosure agreements were valid, PACS’ conduct was justified in the circumstances of the case. Since Peter owed PACS a duty to engage in honest conduct, PACS had a right that is equal or superior to any right that Peter may have against the ALs who had allegedly breached the non-disclosure agreements: at [291].
22 Given the court’s finding that the non-disclosure agreements are illegal and unenforceable, Peter's counterclaim for breach of confidence was dismissed: at [295].
23 The court also dismissed Peter’s counterclaim for unlawful means conspiracy because he had failed to prove an agreement between PACS and the relevant ALs to use the confidential information to “contrive a version of events”, which PACS had set out in its statement of claim. He had also failed to prove any unlawful acts carried out by PACS: at [300] to [302].
24 Further, Peter had not suffered any loss as a result of the alleged conspiracy. Legal costs incurred do not constitute actionable loss or damage for purposes of Peter’s counterclaim for conspiracy to injure. Peter’s claim for reputational losses should also be recovered by way of an action for defamation instead: at [308] to [310].
Losses suffered by PACS
25 The court found that out of the 244 ALs and agents who left PACS, Peter was only liable for the profits that PACS could have earned for 227 of them (23 ALs and 204 agents). PACS’ claims for loss suffered for the remaining 17 agents were dismissed: at [234].
26 For the purposes of calculating the loss of profits that PACS suffered, PACS submitted that the appropriate counterfactual is one in which 
 (a) Peter would have remained with PACS and continued to manage and operate PTO; and 
 (b) Peter would have left PACS 
 (i)In 2019 (after which PTO would have ceased to exist); or
 (ii)In 2025 (after which PTO would have ceased to exist); or
 (iii)Upon his retirement (after which PTO would have continued to persist into perpetuity). In this context, Peter would be considered to have retired if he terminated his agency agreement with PACS and did not join a competitor or otherwise compete with PACS for one year: at [235].
27 The court rejected PACS' counterfactual and instead agreed with Peter that the appropriate counterfactual is one in which (a) Peter would have negotiated with Aviva and given his notice of termination on 8 July 2016; (b) he would have solicited the ALs and agents to join him as soon as it was legally permissible for him to do so, ie, after his two-weeks’ notice; (c) the ALs and agents would have left PACS to join him; and (d) PTO would have ceased to exist after Peter’s departure: at [240].
28 The court directed the plaintiff’s quantum expert to re-compute PACS’ loss based on the above counterfactual: at [261].
29 The court dismissed PACS’ claim for loss of productivity of the 23 ALs and 204 agents who left and the ALs and agents in PTO who did not leave PACS. Under the counterfactual adopted by the court, Peter would have left PACS anyway and would have been free to solicit the 23 ALs and 204 agents after the expiry of his two-weeks’ notice. This meant that PACS would have suffered such losses anyway: at [263] and [266]. 
 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
