
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
29 April 2021
Case summary
Beh Chew Boo v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGCA 44
Criminal Appeal No 1 of 2020
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the majority of the Court of Appeal comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ and Steven Chong JCA (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):
Outcome: Court of Appeal by 2:1 majority disallows the Prosecution from reinstating and proceeding with a trial of non-capital drug importation charges, which had previously been withdrawn against the appellant, on the basis that it would amount to an abuse of process.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

It may be an abuse of process to continue a prosecution in the light of a prior court decision if there would be a collateral attack on the prior criminal judgment in later criminal proceedings. An improper motive is not necessary for subsequent proceedings to constitute an abuse of process. The key yardstick is whether there would be manifest inconsistency between the court’s findings in the new proceedings and the earlier judgment. There would clearly be such a risk of manifest inconsistency if there is an “identical” material issue in both the prior and subsequent proceedings: at [82(g)] and [83].
It is the function and responsibility of the court to determine how the proceedings as a whole, involving both the Prosecution and the Defence, will be managed and conducted. While the Public Prosecutor has, under Art 35(8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“Constitution”) and s 11 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”), a wide discretion on how to institute, conduct or discontinue any criminal prosecutions, the question of whether the Prosecution should be permitted to reinstate and proceed with a trial of withdrawn charges was not confined to a question of the Prosecution’s discretion in its conduct of criminal prosecutions. It also raised the question of how the proposed criminal proceedings as a whole would be managed and specifically whether it would give rise to an abuse of process: at [86].

 Background to the appeal
1 Mr Beh Chew Boo (“Mr Beh”) was charged with five charges of unauthorised importation of controlled drugs under s 7 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed). Although this concerned a single incident on 26 October 2016 at about 5.20am at Woodlands Checkpoint, there were five charges because different drugs were found in the motorcycle that Mr Beh was riding that day (collectively, “the Charges”). 
2 The Prosecution proceeded on only the first charge of importation of 102 packets of crystalline substance containing not less than 499.97g of methamphetamine (“the Ice”), which carried the death penalty (“the Capital Charge”). The Ice was found in a blue plastic bag that was hidden in the storage compartment of the motorcycle. The four remaining non-capital charges, which related to the unauthorised importation of 1270 tablets containing a mix of Class A and Class C controlled drugs (“Non-Capital Charges”), did not carry the death penalty and were stood down at the commencement of trial.
3 Mr Beh was convicted on the Capital Charge in the High Court on 20 January 2020 and sentenced to death on 24 January 2020. The Prosecution then applied to withdraw the Non-Capital Charges under s 147(1) of the CPC, which the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) granted. The practice of standing down charges is commonly observed especially when the Prosecution proceeds only with a capital charge. By doing so, the accused person can focus on his defence to the capital charge without having to also defend himself against the other charges at the same time. Under s 147(2) of the CPC, the withdrawal of the Non-Capital Charges would have the effect of an acquittal on the Non-Capital Charges unless the conviction of the Capital Charge was set aside. 
4 Mr Beh appealed against his conviction on the Capital Charge in CA/CCA 1/2020 (“CCA 1”). The Court of Appeal unanimously acquitted Mr Beh of the Capital Charge, primarily on the basis that Mr Beh’s defence that he did not know that the blue plastic bag was in the motorcycle was not inherently incredible. This was because the motorcycle belonged to Mr Lew Shyang Huei (“Mr Lew”); by the time of the trial, Mr Lew was in police custody in Singapore and his DNA was found on the drug exhibits; Mr Beh’s DNA was not found on any of the drug exhibits; and Mr Beh’s positions in his statements and in his oral evidence were consistent. Therefore, the evidential burden had shifted to the Prosecution, which the Prosecution failed to discharge by deciding not to call Mr Lew as a witness: see Beh Chew Boo v Public Prosecutor [2020] 2 SLR 1375 (the “first CA Judgment”).
5 After the Court delivered its verdict, the Prosecution informed the Court that it wished to reinstate and proceed with a trial of the Non-Capital Charges. The Defence objected to this on the grounds of double jeopardy, res judicata, and abuse of process.
The majority’s decision
6 The majority of the Court of Appeal held that the Prosecution should not be allowed to reinstate and proceed with the withdrawn Non-Capital Charges because that would amount to an abuse of the process of court. 
Double Jeopardy
7 The requirements of the double jeopardy rule are strict, and the doctrine does not preclude a reinstatement of withdrawn charges following the acquittal of a distinct charge: at [16]. 
8 Art 11(2) of the Constitution and the first limb of s 244(1) of the CPC precluded a person who has been tried and convicted or acquitted of an offence to be tried again for the “same offence”. Those provisions did not prevent the Prosecution from proceeding with the Non-Capital Charges because the Charges were not identical in fact, as the drugs and drug weights indicated in the Non-Capital and Capital Charges differed. Thus, the Charges were not in respect of the “same offences”: at [25].
9 The second limb of s 244(1) of the CPC precluded a person who has been tried and convicted or acquitted of an offence to be tried again on the same facts for any other offence which could have been pursued under ss 138–140 of the CPC. This limb also did not apply because ss 138–140 of the CPC did not apply to the Non-Capital Charges. In any event, s 244(2) of the CPC also permitted Mr Beh to be tried for the Non-Capital Charges, as those charges could have been made against him in the former trial of the Capital Charge under s 134 of the CPC. This, however, was not the end of the matter, since there remained possible questions as to issue estoppel and abuse of process: at [29] and [31].
10 At common law, it is well-established under the doctrine of autrefois acquit and convict that a person cannot be tried for a crime in respect of which he has previously been acquitted or convicted. In this case, the common law doctrine of autrefois acquit would also not preclude the Prosecution from proceeding with the Non-Capital Charges, as that doctrine also required the offences to be the same in fact and in law. The majority of the Court of Appeal left open the question whether the common law doctrines of autrefois convict and acquit have been completely repealed by Art 11(2) of the Constitution and/or s 244(1) of the CPC, and whether the common law doctrine of autrefois acquit should be expanded to accommodate the broader test of substantial similarity: at [34] and [36]. 
Issue Estoppel
11 Issue estoppel prevents a party from relitigating a question of fact or law which has been determined by a court, either in the course of the same litigation or in other litigation which raises the same point between the same parties. It was unnecessary to reach a conclusion on the controversial issue of whether issue estoppel should apply to criminal proceedings, as the crux of the problem with the Prosecution’s intention to proceed with the Non-Capital Charges was that it would amount to an abuse of process: at [50].
Abuse of Process
12 It may be an abuse of process to continue a prosecution in the light of a prior court decision if there would be a collateral attack on the prior criminal judgment in later criminal proceedings. An improper motive is not necessary for subsequent proceedings to constitute an abuse of process. The key yardstick is whether there would be manifest inconsistency between the court’s findings in the new proceedings and the earlier judgment. There would clearly be such a risk of manifest inconsistency if there is an “identical” material issue in both the prior and subsequent proceedings: at [82(g)] and [83].
13 The existence of manifest inconsistency between the earlier and the pending or intended proceedings may not, in and of itself, amount to an abuse of process. It will be necessary to consider whether, in all the circumstances, it would be unfair and unjust to the accused person or otherwise inconsistent with the fair administration of justice to permit the pending or intended proceedings to continue: at [84].
14 It is the function and responsibility of the court to determine how the proceedings as a whole, involving both the Prosecution and the Defence, will be managed and conducted. While the Public Prosecutor has, under Art 35(8) of the Constitution and s 11 of the CPC, a wide discretion on how to institute, conduct or discontinue any criminal prosecutions, the question of whether the Prosecution should be permitted to reinstate and proceed with a trial of the Non-Capital Charges was clearly not confined to a question of the Prosecution’s discretion in its conduct of criminal prosecutions. It also raised the question of how the proposed criminal proceedings as a whole would be managed and specifically whether it would give rise to an abuse of process: at [86].
15 While there was no suggestion of any bad faith or improper motives underlying the intended prosecution of the Non-Capital Charges, this was neither relevant nor material and was not the nature of abuse of process at issue in this case: at [87].
16 Allowing the Prosecution to reinstate and proceed with a trial of the Non-Capital Charges would amount to an abuse of process because it would amount to a collateral attack on Mr Beh’s prior acquittal of the Capital Charge. There were five critical factors which led to this conclusion: at [87] and [88].
17 First, the key fact on which Mr Beh was acquitted of the Capital Charge – the fact that he did not know of the existence of the blue plastic bag containing the Ice – is the identical fact which will need to be proved by the Prosecution in any trial of the Non-Capital Charges. This gave rise to a manifest and irreconcilable inconsistency between the finding of the Court of Appeal in respect of the Capital Charge and the outcome the Prosecution was seeking in respect of the Non-Capital Charges: at [89].
18 Second, to successfully prove the Non-Capital Charges, the Prosecution intended to adduce two pieces of evidence that it did not or was not able to ultimately rely on for the Capital Charge proceedings: the Prosecution intended, first, to call Mr Lew as a witness and, second, to cross-examine Mr Beh on certain text messages which the Judge had disallowed the Prosecution to do in the Capital Charge trial. However, it was the Prosecution’s own election not to call Mr Lew as a witness and this was a material factor that was held against it in the appeal in CCA 1. The Prosecution also chose not to challenge the Judge’s ruling on the text messages in CCA 1. That being the case, the acquittal of Mr Beh on the Capital Charge was the result of choices made by the Prosecution rather than by the Defence. Yet, the Prosecution was now seeking to prove Mr Beh’s knowing possession of the blue plastic bag in a trial of the Non-Capital Charges by adducing the very evidence which it had explicitly taken the stand that it did not need in the Capital Charge proceedings. Allowing the Prosecution to proceed with a trial of the Non-Capital Charges would be giving the Prosecution a second chance in effect to “undo” some of the consequences of the choices it had made: at [92], [98] and [99].
19 Third, it would not have been available to the Prosecution to seek to adduce Mr Lew’s evidence as new evidence on appeal or as new evidence for any review of the first CA Judgment under s 394J of the CPC. This further pointed to the trial of the Non-Capital Charges as an impermissible attack on the finality of the acquittal on the Capital Charge: at [100] and [101]. 
20 In addition, had the Charges been proceeded with in a joint trial before the Judge, Mr Beh would then have been acquitted of all the Charges in the appeal in CCA 1. the reason for standing down the Non-Capital Charges was adherence to a rule of practice that is meant for the accused person’s benefit. If so, it was troubling that the Prosecution was seeking to avail itself of that rule of practice to the accused person’s detriment: at [102].
21 Fourth, if the Non-Capital Charges were allowed to be proceeded with, this would give rise to a real asymmetry in the position of the Public Prosecutor on one hand and the Defence on the other, and this was potentially prejudicial. This is because, where an accused person faces multiple charges based on a common fact (as in the present case), the Public Prosecutor would have the option to proceed on one charge at a time and to apply to stand down the remaining charges under s 238 of the CPC, only to then revive the remaining charges against the accused if the accused were acquitted of the first charge. The Defence does not have an analogous power to “stand down” certain defences before reviving them in fresh proceedings or in an appeal or review application if the primary defence does not succeed: at [103] and [104].
22 Fifth, allowing the Prosecution to revive and proceed with the Non-Capital Charges would severely undermine the principle of finality and unjustifiably vex Mr Beh with multiple rounds of litigation: at [105].
23 Therefore, bearing in mind the particular confluence of the foregoing factors, permitting the Prosecution to reinstate and proceed with a trial of the withdrawn Non-Capital Charges would amount to an abuse of process because it would lead to the risk of manifestly inconsistent findings between the first CA Judgment and those in a subsequent trial of the Non-Capital Charges. This would have been an abusive collateral attack on the first CA Judgment, and it would be unfair and unjust to Mr Beh or otherwise inconsistent with the fair administration of justice to permit the intended trial of the Non-Capital Charges to be proceeded with. Therefore, the Prosecution was not permitted to reinstate and proceed with a trial of the withdrawn Non-Capital Charges. It followed that Mr Beh was to be released from custody: at [107] and [108].
Decision of the minority of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JCA): 
24 The minority of the Court of Appeal agreed that the real issue was whether there was abuse of process by the Prosecution in deciding to proceed with the four non-capital charges. Double jeopardy was not made out here. There was also no need to consider whether res judicata or issue estoppel applies to criminal proceedings. Even if it does, it should allow for an exception to exclude or to limit its operation where there is new evidence in subsequent criminal proceedings: at [120]–[123].
25 There would not be any abuse of process in the Prosecution’s decision to revive the non-capital charges because there were “unique circumstances” in this case. This was never a case of “drip-feeding” charges by proffering only one charge and, upon acquittal, deciding to proffer some more charges. Further, it is a time-honoured practice to proceed with capital charges first and to stand down non-capital ones. The revival of the stood down and withdrawn non-capital charges was therefore a real and lawful possibility under s 147(3) of the CPC. The standing down of the four non-capital charges was never a strategic move by the Prosecution to hold back some charges as a standby in case it could not succeed in proving the capital charge. Therefore, there could be no abuse of process in the Prosecution’s decision to proceed with the capital charge and to stand down the non-capital charges: at [123]–[127].
26 Although the High Court ruled against the Prosecution on some of the text messages which the Prosecution sought to cross-examine Mr Beh on, it ruled in favour of the Prosecution eventually in the outcome when it convicted Mr Beh on the capital charge. The Prosecution could not appeal and had no reason to appeal in respect of the outcome of the trial, which is the principal matter. Further, the correctness of the procedural rulings on the text messages in Beh’s mobile phone was not argued on appeal by the Defence Counsel. Therefore, the Prosecution could not have raised any submissions in relation to the correctness of the Judge’s procedural rulings on the text messages: at [131]–[132].
27 As material evidence was excluded wrongly at the trial to the prejudice of the Prosecution, there would be no abuse of process in the Prosecution now seeking to proceed with the four non-capital charges on the complete evidence which was emaciated by the Judge’s pre-emptive rulings which the Prosecution could not appeal against on the facts here. To the extent that there will be additional evidence adduced by the Prosecution, the State Court in the subsequent trial is not bound by the factual findings of the first CA judgment. Should the Prosecution succeed in proving the four non-capital charges beyond reasonable doubt, Mr Beh’s acquittal on the capital charge will still stand as the Prosecution cannot seek a review of the first CA judgment in the situation here: at [134]–[135].
 28 The apparently conflicting decisions which result from this should not diminish public confidence in the courts or in the legal process, because the first CA judgment was constrained on appeal by the High Court’s pre-emptive rulings on the text messages while the decision of the State Court would be premised on the Prosecution’s complete evidence: at [136].
29 As for the issue of calling Mr Lew as a witness, the Prosecution now sought to fulfil its role in the fair and impartial administration of criminal justice and to fulfil its duty to serve the public interest by assisting the court to establish the truth by putting forth relevant evidence. It proposed to do this by calling Mr Lew to testify at the trial for the four non-capital charges. The minority of the Court of Appeal therefore did not see why the Prosecution’s proposed action to comply with the first CA judgment amounted to an abuse of process in the circumstances here, bearing in mind that the four non-capital charges were never stood down as part of the Prosecution’s litigation strategy: at [140].
30 It would not be unfair that Mr Beh could face impeachment in the subsequent trial of the Non-Capital Charges should his evidence depart materially from that given at the first trial of the Capital Charge. This is because the obligation of all witnesses in court, whether an accused or not, is to speak the truth: at [143].
31 Therefore, the Prosecution’s revival of the four non-capital charges against Mr Beh, pursuant to s 147(3) of the CPC, would not be an abuse of process. Even if the Prosecution were not now entitled to call Mr Lew as a witness, the Prosecution should be allowed to proceed with the trial on the four non-capital charges because of the issue relating to the text messages: at [144].
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
