
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 March 2021
 
Case summary
Abdul Karim bin Mohamed Kuppai Khan v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGCA 27
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses the appellant’s appeal against his sentence, but re-affirms its holding in Saravanan Chandaram v Public Prosecutor and another matter [2020] 2 SLR 95 to the effect that it is impermissible for the Prosecution to engage in the dual charging practice in respect of the same compressed block of cannabis-related material.
 
Facts
1 The appellant had pleaded guilty to a charge of abetting another to possess not less than 329.99g of cannabis for the purpose of trafficking under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2), s 12 and 33(1) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). He had also consented to a similar charge pertaining to 659.99g of cannabis mixture being taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing (the “TIC charge”). It was not disputed that the appellant met one “Ilango” on 21 October 2015 to discuss a “job”. The next day, the appellant instructed Ilango to head to Jurong Port to collect what Ilango knew to be cannabis. Ilango, who himself asked one “Ravan” to accompany him, was directed by the appellant to visit the SPC Petrol Kiosk along Jalan Buroh and to board a lorry at the kiosk. Ilango entered the lorry and there collected a black haversack, which contained the relevant drugs. After proceeding to Ravan’s unit, the appellant instructed Ilango to cut and repackage the drugs to certain sizes. The appellant later gave Ilango further instructions to divide the consignment of drugs and to set aside some for the appellant’s collection. Later that day, the appellant called Ilango and instructed him to meet downstairs. Ravan and Ilango met the appellant at the basement carpark and were thereafter arrested. Officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) later searched Ravan’s and Ilango’s respective units and found the relevant drugs.
2 After convicting the appellant of the cannabis charge, the High Court judge (“Judge”) sentenced the appellant to 15 years’ imprisonment and 10 strokes of the cane, with the imprisonment term backdated to the date of remand. In arriving at this sentence, the Judge noted that the indicative starting point was between 13 to 15 years’ imprisonment and 10 to 11 strokes of the cane. She took into account the appellant’s guilty plea but found the following to be aggravating: (a) the fact that the appellant played an active role in the onward distribution of a substantial quantity of drugs; and (b) the fact that he offended while on bail. In arriving at this sentence, the Judge clarified that she placed no weight on the TIC charge concerning cannabis mixture. The appellant filed an appeal against his sentence contending that the custodial term was manifestly excessive.
3 The appeal potentially implicated the Court’s holding in Saravanan Chandaram v Public Prosecutor and another matter [2020] 2 SLR 95 (“Saravanan”) to the effect that it was impermissible for the Prosecution to prefer, concurrently, two distinct charges, one concerning cannabis and the other, cannabis mixture, arising from a single compressed block of cannabis-related material (the “Dual Charging Practice”). Although this issue could have been avoided in this case because the Judge had expressly declined to consider the TIC charge involving cannabis mixture, the Prosecution took the opportunity to invite the Court to reconsider its decision in Saravanan, on the basis of what it claimed to be new legal arguments.
4 For the purposes of this appeal, the Health Sciences Authority (“HSA”) again explained its procedure for analysing compressed blocks of cannabis. Based on a macroscopic examination, an HSA analyst separated the components of the compressed block of cannabis-related material into three different groups: (a) individual plant branches (“Group 1”); (b) fragments of plant parts (“Group 2”); and (c) observable extraneous matter (“Group 3”). Group 1 material were individual plant branches, had to be at least 2cm in length and possessed sufficient botanical features of cannabis to meet the criteria for “cannabis”. Group 2 material were fragments of plant parts that were typically between 2cm and 0.5mm in length and possessed insufficient botanical features to meet the criteria for “cannabis”. Group 3 material were observable extraneous matter such as non-cannabis vegetable matter and non-vegetable matter such as string. 
5 In Saravanan at [174], the Court referred to a step in the HSA’s analysis procedure that generated what was termed “Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter”. This occurred when the HSA analyst inevitably, although often intentionally, broke some of the cannabis plant parts. There were three characteristics of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter that had a bearing on the legal permissibility of the Dual Charging Practice. First, some Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter included what may have been Group 1 material that became Group 2 material by reason of the HSA’s act of prising apart the compressed block of cannabis-related plant material. Any such material would not have existed as Group 2 material at the time of the offence. Second, Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter could not be precisely quantified by the HSA because it was impossible for the HSA to tell how much of the Group 2 material was already in that form and how much of it came into being as a result of the HSA’s actions. Third, and perhaps most significantly, Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter did not possess the characteristics necessary to be certified as “cannabis” by the HSA because the HSA certified as cannabis only plant branches that were at least 2cm in length, and therefore such matter could not be certified as “cannabis” under s 2 of the MDA.
The decision in Saravanan
6 The aspects of the Court’s reasoning in Saravanan relevant to this appeal were set out at [183]–[195]. As to the mens rea, the Court observed that the Prosecution had to prove that the accused person knew the nature of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter. This could not possibly have been proved because the Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter did not exist in that form at the time the offender brought the relevant bundle into Singapore. As to the actus reus, the Prosecution was required to prove the quantity of such material that was in fact trafficked in, exported or imported by the accused at the time of the offence. This again was impossible for the Prosecution to prove because the HSA could not certify how much of such material was in existence at the time of the offence and how much of it came into being as a result of the acts of the HSA analyst. The Prosecution in Saravanan further accepted that the HSA’s act of breaking apart the compressed block of cannabis material would result in the creation of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter and that it was not possible to ascertain how much of this material was created as a result of the HSA’s actions.
7 Notwithstanding these points, the Prosecution in Saravanan contended that: (a) the Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter would already have been present in a compressed block of cannabis material at the time of the offence albeit in a different form; and (b) an offender by his conduct must be taken to have assumed the risk of the HSA analyst having to break apart the compressed block and as a result having some portions of cannabis convert into cannabis mixture. However, these submissions did not address the two points regarding mens rea and actus reus. First, the relevant mens rea had to be assessed at the time of the offence and it was not evident that the offender intended at that time to traffic in a substance that did not as yet exist as that substance. Second, the Prosecution had to accurately establish the quantity of the relevant drug at the time of the offence. Given that the HSA was not able to state the quantity of the Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter, again, it was not possible to establish what the quantity of the relevant drug was at the material time.
The Prosecution’s new arguments in this appeal
8 First, as regards the actus reus, the Prosecution in this appeal argued that, given that an entire compressed block of cannabis-related material may be certified as cannabis mixture, it followed that the Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter which originated from the same compressed block must have existed at the time of trafficking, importation or exportation as cannabis mixture. In this regard, the task of ascertaining the quantity of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter (which the HSA admittedly could not do) was not a necessary step for determining the relevant quantity of cannabis mixture present at the time of the offence. This is because: (a) the Prosecution was entitled to prefer a cannabis mixture charge on the weight of the entire compressed block (Saravanan at [194]–[195]), a valid practice even if an HSA analyst subsequently prised it open and separated the block into Group 1 and Group 2 material; and (b) the Prosecution could as a matter of simple mathematics subtract the HSA-certified weight of Group 1 material (as subsequently determined by prising open the block) from the weight of the pre-analysis compressed block to derive the weight of remainder cannabis mixture that comprised Group 2 material alone. This approach was said to cohere with, among other things, the idea that Group 2 material by itself qualified as “cannabis mixture” under s 2 of the MDA, based on Saravanan at [178].
9 Second, as regards the mens rea, the Prosecution contended for a broader view regarding the mens rea requirement for a cannabis mixture offence. On this view, an accused person’s knowledge attached to the compressed block as a whole (which qualified as cannabis mixture) and this knowledge necessarily and inevitably entailed knowledge of the compressed block without the pure cannabis material (which, it was said, nonetheless remained cannabis mixture). So long as the Prosecution could show that the accused person possessed the necessary mens rea in respect of the entire compressed block at the time of the offence, the accused person would necessarily possess the mens rea pertaining to the cannabis mixture for the residual portion of the same block when the pure cannabis material was excluded. Under this approach, the accused person’s knowledge of the form of the drugs after the HSA analysis had been carried out and the Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter had come into being, was simply irrelevant.
The Court’s decision in relation to the Prosecution’s Dual Charging Practice
10 The Court was not persuaded by the Prosecution’s arguments. Apart from the fact that most of the Prosecution’s arguments had already been adequately addressed in Saravanan at [183]–[195], those aspects of the Prosecution’s arguments that were new took certain aspects of the reasoning in Saravanan out of context. In particular, the Prosecution relied on Saravanan at [178], where the Court had said “we are satisfied that there is nothing objectionable with treating the fragmented vegetable matter in a block of cannabis-related plant material as cannabis mixture because cannabis mixture as we have defined it includes vegetable matter that is ultimately of indeterminate origin”. The Prosecution acknowledged that the foregoing passage was the source of its inspiration for contending that, given a block of compressed cannabis material, it was entitled to bring a cannabis charge for the portion of that block that was determined to be Group 1 material and separately bring a separate cannabis mixture charge for the residue as Group 2 material. The conclusion that the Prosecution arrived at was simply incorrect when the aforementioned paragraph was read in its specific context and in the context of the judgment as a whole: at [25] and [26]. 
11 First, Saravanan at [178] had be understood in the light of the diagram set out in Saravanan at [174]. That diagram represented that: (a) a given compressed block of cannabis material started off being a mixture of cannabis and other plant material; and (b) due to the testing process applied by the HSA, a part of the Group 1 material and a part of the Group 2 material became Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter (which was Group 2 material) that the HSA could not certify as being of any particular origin and ended up treating as plant material of indeterminate origin. At [178] of Saravanan, the Court had been referring to Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter as comprising cannabis mixture in so far as it was deemed or was treated as being a part of the whole compressed block. That was what the Court meant in Saravanan at [178] when it had said, literally, that “there is nothing objectionable with treating the fragmented vegetable matter in a block of cannabis-related plant material as cannabis mixture”. The Prosecution wrongly took Saravanan at [178] out of context to mean that it was permissible to treat the separated Group 2 material in and of itself as cannabis mixture: at [27].
12 Second, the Prosecution’s reading of Saravanan at [178] was wrong because it ignored the cross-reference in that very paragraph to [105]–[109] as well as the earlier parts of the judgment at [84], [90]–[93] and [119]. It was clear from these paragraphs in Saravanan that for a compressed block of cannabis-related material to qualify as cannabis mixture, there had to exist a mixture comprising two distinct types of material – cannabis and other plant material. Such other material could be material that was definitively identified as being non-cannabis material or could be plant material that was of indeterminate origin whether with or without evidence of THC or CBN. Once the Prosecution proceeded with a charge of cannabis mixture based on Group 2 material alone, there was no evidence that the Group 2 material by itself consisted of cannabis and some other type of material. Granted, the compressed block as a whole consisted of a mixture of cannabis and other vegetable material of indeterminate origin and so qualified as cannabis mixture. But once the cannabis was removed, all that was left in the Group 2 material was vegetable matter of indeterminate origin and this could no longer satisfy the definition of “cannabis plant matter commingled with vegetable matter of indeterminate origin or known to be of non-cannabis origin”. It therefore could not qualify as “cannabis mixture” under s 2 of the MDA. Nothing in Saravanan at [178] was meant to detract from what the Court had earlier set out in the judgment regarding the definition of “cannabis mixture”: at [28], [29], [30] and [31].
13 The Court also re-affirmed the reasoning in Saravanan at [186]. Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter, which included Group 1 material that transformed into Group 2 material as a result of the HSA’s analysis, did not exist as cannabis mixture at the time of the offence and, therefore, an accused person could not have known or be said to have known the nature of the Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter at the time of the offence, much less know that it was cannabis mixture. Equally, persons who dealt with compressed blocks of cannabis material could not be said to intend the consequential creation of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter where such matter was inadvertently and only later generated as a result of the HSA’s testing. There was no authority at all for the proposition that such an accused person could be made liable for these consequences, which could in some cases extend to the mandatory death penalty, on the basis of assuming the risk for the form of the substance and, as a result, its legal nature changing due to the HSA’s testing processes: at [33]. 
14 The Prosecution’s proposed solutions to overcome the problems associated with proving the mens rea and the actus reus in respect of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter were untenable and suffered from the same inherent deficiencies. This is because the Prosecution made a false equivalence between: (a) two different types of drug; and (b) the weights of the compressed block’s various components as they existed at different moments in time. First, the Prosecution’s approach conflated what in law were two different types of drug and assumed that the weight of one type of drug (namely, cannabis) could be subtracted from the weight of another type (namely, cannabis mixture) when the latter only qualified as a drug because and so long as it included the former. Second, the Prosecution’s approach in effect sought to calculate the weight of Group 2 material alone by reference to weight measurements assessed at two different points in time, namely, before and after the HSA’s analysis. Thus, the weight of cannabis measured after the HSA’s analysis was subtracted from the weight of the cannabis block before the HSA analysis. This overlooked the fact that the components of the compressed block were not static and the HSA’s act of analysing the compressed block itself generated Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter. As some Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter was Group 1 material that became Group 2 material, the Prosecution could never prove that a person dealing with a compressed block of cannabis material knew that the material subsequently determined to be Group 2 material alone was, in its entirety, cannabis mixture at the time of the offence: at [34]. 
15 Finally, the Dual Charging Practice exposed an accused person to two separate charges even though, in the ordinary case and absent proof to the contrary, such a person only contemplated transacting in one type of drug activity. This had the potential to give rise to arbitrary outcomes if the mandatory consecutive sentencing regime under s 307 of the CPC was engaged as a consequence: at [35].
The Court’s decision in relation to the HSA’s certification practice post-Saravanan
16 In this appeal, the HSA expressed uncertainty as to whether it could, following Saravanan, continue certifying as cannabis mixture Group 2 material alone (inclusive of Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter). The Court held that, in so far as the HSA’s revised certification practice involved the certification of Group 2 material alone as “cannabis mixture”, such a practice was impermissible. The basis for which the HSA adopted this practice was premised on a misunderstanding of Saravanan at [178]. Saravanan at [178] denoted that, assuming that some Created Fragmented Vegetable Matter was once pure cannabis, it could be regarded as cannabis mixture only to the extent that it was treated as being a part of the whole compressed block. That did not, however, entitle the Prosecution or the HSA to regard the Group 2 material alone as being cannabis mixture, because Group 2 material in and of itself did not satisfy the statutory definition of “cannabis mixture” under s 2 of the MDA. The revised certification practice based on Saravanan at [178] was therefore mistaken: at [37], [38], [39] and [40]. 
 
The Court’s decision in relation to the appellant’s sentence
17 It was not disputed that the Judge did not take into account the TIC charge in sentencing the appellant. It was also not disputed that the indicative starting point for the custodial term was somewhere between 13 and 15 years’ imprisonment and that it was aggravating that the appellant had offended while on bail. However, the appellant submitted that his imprisonment term should be reduced to 13 years for two main reasons. First, the appellant argued, on the basis of facts asserted in his own mitigation plea, that Ilango had already been dealing in drugs prior to speaking with him. He asserted that it was Ilango who suggested to the appellant that he would collect the drugs if the appellant paid him, and hence the appellant did not pressure Ilango. Second, the appellant asserted that he performed a limited function under direction. On the basis of facts asserted in his mitigation plea, it was said that an individual named “Daud” allegedly asked him to collect and deliver the relevant drugs on the next day. It was suggested on this basis that there was in fact an absence of aggravating factors, and that the appellant’s culpability was low and taken together with his plea of guilt, the sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment was manifestly excessive: at [43].
18 The Court disagreed. Given that the quantity of cannabis involved in this case was at the higher end of the range, the indicative starting sentence would have been 15 years’ imprisonment based on the sentencing framework in Vasentha d/o Joseph v Public Prosecutor [2015] 5 SLR 122 at [47] and applied in Public Prosecutor v Sivasangaran s/o Sivaperumal [2016] SGDC 214 at [19]. The Judge was correct to have characterised the appellant’s role as “active”. The appellant did actively instigate Ilango to commit the offence as he issued instructions to Ilango at every step of the transaction. Ilango was directed to do more (including repackaging the drugs) than what he had initially agreed to do (which was just to collect some drugs). Even assuming for the sake of argument that the appellant had himself been acting under directions (which was not something that was reflected in the statement of facts), and that Ilango had acted voluntarily, this did not detract from the fact that the appellant demonstrated considerable knowledge, involvement and control over the entire operation as evidenced in the fact that he directed Ilango throughout the process. The Court rejected the suggestion that the act of involving others in a crime could only constitute an aggravating factor if done with coercive force. Procuring the involvement of others in a criminal venture was in and of itself an aggravating factor because it widened the circle of offending actors. The Court did not accept that such instigation would in some way be less aggravating simply because it was done on the instructions of another. Taking the foregoing into account, as the Judge did, the appellant’s plea of guilt was rightly accorded less weight as a mitigating factor. In the round, it could not be said that the sentence imposed by the Judge was manifestly excessive. The appellant’s appeal against his sentence was therefore dismissed: at [44] and [45].
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
