
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 March 2021
Case summary
Amarjeet Singh v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 73
Criminal Motion No 36 of 2020
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of Sundaresh Menon CJ:
Outcome: The applicant withdrew the application.
Background 
1 Mr Amarjeet Singh (“Mr Singh”) was arrested for using criminal force on a police officer. The officer was allegedly pushed on the shoulder in the course of executing his duties as a public servant. As such, Mr Singh was originally investigated for a potential offence under s 353 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”). Mr Singh was eventually charged with an offence under s 352 of the Penal Code (instead of the offence under s 353 of the Penal Code that he had initially been investigated for).
2 Section 353 of the Penal Code sets out an aggravated form of the offence and it concerns the use of criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty, whereas s 352 of the Penal Code concerns the use of criminal force without anything more. Both offences are punishable with imprisonment, fine or both imprisonment and fine. The only difference between them is in the maximum imprisonment terms and the maximum fines that may be meted out.
3 Mr Singh alleged that in pre-trial discussions with the Prosecution, the Deputy Public Prosecutor (“DPP”) in charge of the file at the time had promised that the Prosecution would only seek a non-custodial sentence under s 352 of the Penal Code. On that understanding, Mr Singh decided that he would plead guilty when the time came for his plea to be taken. Sometime afterwards, a new DPP took charge of the matter and assessed that the s 352 charge was not commensurate with the gravity of Mr Singh’s offence in the light of his culpability. As such, the charge was amended to one under s 353 of the Penal Code. This development was conveyed to Mr Singh’s lawyer over the telephone. Mr Singh’s lawyer was also allegedly told that the Prosecution would seek a custodial sentence against Mr Singh. 
4 Mr Singh, as a result, elected not to plead guilty and took the position that there was an enforceable plea agreement between him and the Prosecution. He made an oral application before a District Judge, seeking enforcement of the alleged plea agreement. This was dismissed by the District Judge who considered that he had no jurisdiction to grant such an order. Mr Singh subsequently filed the present application by way of criminal motion to the High Court.
The court's decision
5 Mr Singh ultimately withdrew the application after concerns were raised about the jurisdictional basis for his application. Broadly speaking, there were two main concerns: (a) the precise nature of a criminal motion and the jurisdiction that a criminal motion ordinarily invokes and (b) the situations when it would be proper to bring a criminal motion. 
6 On the nature of the criminal motion, the court observed that that a criminal motion is ordinarily brought for some purpose that is ancillary to a pre-existing criminal matter (such as a trial or appeal or application for criminal motion). In other words, motions are commonly filed to seek an order that is in some way connected to or supportive of a primary action. Such orders are fundamentally tethered to the conduct of the main trial or appeal or application for revision and the effort to ensure that the correct outcome is reached as a result of that trial or appeal or application for review: (at [27])
7 As such, a criminal motion is a mode of process that is primarily invoked when seeking a form of relief that is ancillary to or supportive of the conduct of a primary criminal action, such actions being those that invoke the original, appellate or revisionary criminal jurisdiction of the court: (at [28])
 i. A court’s jurisdiction refers to its authority to hear and determine a dispute that is brought before it: (at [14])
 ii. The court’s original criminal jurisdiction is concerned with the court’s trial jurisdiction, which in turn involves the court’s consideration of a case at first instance, taking cognizance of a cause at its inception, trying it and ultimately passing judgment upon the law and facts: (at [15])
 iii. The court’s appellate criminal jurisdiction involves the court’s consideration of appeals arising from any judgment, sentence or order of a court, or any decision of the High Court mentioned in section 149M(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed): (at [16]) 
 iv. The court’s supervisory criminal jurisdiction involves the court’s scrutiny and control over decisions of the inferior courts and tribunals or other public bodies discharging public functions. Under this jurisdiction, the court has powers to review the activities of public authorities and, in some cases, of private bodies exercising functions of public importance such as licensing: (at [17])
 v. The court’s revisionary criminal jurisdiction is a statutory hybrid of the pre-existing supervisory and appellate jurisdiction. Revision is characterised by flexibility of remedies and may lie on errors of law and fact. And while the court’s revisionary powers are similar to those exercised by a court invoking its appellate jurisdiction, revisions are fundamentally differently from appeals. The former is a matter of the court’s discretion; the petitioner in a revision only bring his case to the notice of the court which may interfere if the threshold for revisionary intervention is met. The latter is a right (statutorily provided under s 374 of the CPC) to demand adjudication on a question of law or fact. Moreover, appeals are limited to specific situations (such as those stated in s 149M of the CPC) and only allow challenges to specific matters (s 374 of the CPC). Revisions however, may involve the correctness, legality or propriety of any decision recorded or passed by a subordinate court. In light of the potentially wide reach of the court’s revisionary jurisdiction, it has traditionally been tightly controlled and sparingly exercised. Its invocation requires a demonstration not only that there has been some error but also that grave and serious injustice has been occasioned as a result: (at [18] – [21])
8. As for the propriety of bringing a criminal motion, the court held that the jurisdictional soundness of the present application was to be assessed by examining whether it was, in fact, brought within the court’s criminal jurisdiction by (a) constituting a primary action invoking or purporting to invoke the court’s criminal jurisdiction, or (b) seeking specific reliefs incidental to or supportive of a primary action invoking the original, appellate or revisionary criminal jurisdiction of the court: (at [34])
9. Undergirding this inquiry was the court’s recognition that (a) a criminal motion should not be a mode of process that circumvents established procedural safeguards that apply to certain originating actions or appeals or revisions and (b) a criminal motion should not be a means by which parties circumvent the general rule forbidding appeals against interlocutory or procedural rulings, that prohibition being an important procedural rule that preserves the momentum of the criminal process: (at [32] – [33])
10. As for the present application, the court rejected Mr Vasu’s (Mr Singh’s lawyer) suggestion that this application was an invocation of the court’s original criminal jurisdiction. That jurisdiction concerned the court’s trial jurisdiction. Here, there was no trial and the application did not relate to the proper or fair conduct of a pending trial: (at [40])
11. The court found that the real point of the application was to stop the Prosecution from proceeding with its intended prosecution of the offence under s 353 of the Penal Code. This was effectively an attempt to secure public law remedies which were rightfully pursued under O 53 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC”) and granted pursuant to the court’s supervisory civil jurisdiction: (at [41])
12. The court found that this attempt to control the conduct of the Prosecution was not ancillary to any parent criminal proceeding but was instead an independent attempt to persuade the court to act in its supervisory (civil) capacity by exercising its powers of judicial review over the Attorney-General’s exercise of his prosecutorial discretion. This would effectively result in judicial review being sought without first obtaining leave when the grant of leave is a necessary precondition to a party invoking the court’s exercise of its powers of judicial review: (at [42])
13. Moreover, allowing such an endeavour to proceed by way of criminal motion would allow Mr Singh to evade the sort of analysis that typically applies to applications for judicial review. He would, for example, not have to concern himself with demonstrating that alternative remedies have been exhausted or that the relief has a practical usefulness: (at [43])
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
