
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
18 March 2021
Case summary
Xu Yuanchen v Public Prosecutor and another [2021] SGHC 64
Criminal Motion Nos 65 and 78 of 2020
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of Sundaresh Menon CJ:
Outcome: The court dismissed the application. 
Background
1. Mr Xu Yuanchen (“Mr Xu”) and Mr Daniel De Costa Augustin (“Mr Augustin”) were charged on 12 December 2018.Mr Augustin faced two charges in the State Courts. The first charge was for criminal defamation under s 500 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code’), and the second was for unauthorized access to computer materials under s 3(1) of the Computer Misuse Act (Cap 50A, 2007 Rev Ed). Mr Xu faced one charge of criminal defamation under s 500 of the Penal Code. Both claimed trial, which commenced in November 2019. At the time of these applications, the trial was still ongoing. 
2. Mr Augustin applied to the State Courts seeking disclosure of the statements he gave to the police during the course of investigations. His application was denied for three reasons: 
 i. First, such disclosure was not mandated by statute since the parties had opted not to proceed under the statutory criminal case disclosure regime. 
 ii. Second, disclosure was not mandated by the common law either. Common law disclosure obligations only attached to “unused material” that was thought to be prima facie credible and relevant to the guilt or innocence of the accused. The district judge hearing the matter (“DJ Tan”) took the view that the statements did not come within the definition of “unused material”. Since the applicants had not yet testified in court, it was uncertain whether the Prosecution might eventually use the statements to cross-examine or impeach the testimony of the applicants or possibly even of other witnesses. DJ Tan considered that in such circumstances, where it was not yet certain that the statement would not be used, the statements could not be regarded as unused materials of the sort that the common law disclosure obligations attached to. 
 iii Third, DJ Tan took the view that the applicants’ reasons for seeking such disclosure – to ensure regularity and prevent any disparity between the testimony given on the stand and the position reflected in the statements – were not consistent with the rationale for common law disclosure obligations. 
3. After the dismissal, the applicants made similar applications to another district judge (“DJ Ng”). DJ Ng dismissed those applications as well, substantially adopting DJ Tan’s reasoning. Following that, the applicants made the present applications seeking disclosure of their investigative statements. 
The court's decision
 
4. The court dismissed the applications for two broad reasons.
5. First, the court held that the applications fell afoul of the general prohibition on appeals against interlocutory rulings. Even though this prohibition did not extend to invocations of the court’s revisionary jurisdiction against interlocutory rulings, a court facing such an application would nonetheless have to consider (a) whether the application was in truth nothing more than a disguised interlocutory appeal, which was generally barred; (b) whether the nature of the relief sought implicated the same sort of mischief that the prohibition against interlocutory appeals was designed to avoid, namely, the disruption of trials and delays in their final disposal; and (c) that the revisionary jurisdiction was only concerned with serious errors that gave rise to grave and serious injustice which struck at the relevant act as an exercise of judiciary power: (at [16])
6. Taking these considerations together, the court found that the present applications were in substance interlocutory appeals that were barred. In that regard, the present applications raised the sort of mischiefs that the prohibition against interlocutory appeals was designed to counter. Furthermore, there was nothing to indicate any injustice of the sort that would have justified invoking the revisionary jurisdiction. As such, the court found that the applications failed for being procedurally defective in that they contravened the prohibition against appeals being taken against interlocutory rulings: (at [17])
7. Second, the court found that the two conditions for invoking its revisionary jurisdiction were not fulfilled. 
8. The first condition – that there should be some error in the decision or order made by the judge below – was not fulfilled as the court agreed with the result reached by the district judges below, even if it did not agree with the reasoning: (at [26])
9. The court held that an accused person’s statements would fall within the universe of unused materials which the Prosecution could be obliged to disclose. This interpretation was supported by the plain language of Muhammad bin Kadar v Public Prosecutor [2011] 3 SLR 1205 (“Kadar”), that being the authority which established the Prosecution’s common law disclosure obligations: (at [26] – [29])
10. Additionally, since any disclosure ought to have been made before trial, the Prosecution was expected to evaluate the evidence before trial to determine whether it will be used or not. On that reading, “unused material” as understood by Kadar would have referred to material that was part of the Prosecution’s affirmative rather than its responsive case. It was not correct to say that material could not be regarded as “unused material” simply because the Prosecution could have used it during trial for impeachment applications or cross-examinations. The court took the view that such a reading tilted the balance in favour of the Prosecution’s interest in retaining the potential to use the accused person’s statements (for impeachment or cross-examination) and away from the interest of affording the Defence actual access to evidence that could potentially be important to establishing the innocence of the accused person:(at [30] – [32])
11. Moreover, the court observed that the Prosecution’s interest in using these statements had to be weighed against the accused person’s interest in having access to his earlier statements. The court went on to observe that in any case, the Prosecution could continue to use those statements after they had been disclosed earlier and this was in fact the current practice with the accused person’s cautioned statements: (at [33] – [34])
12. As such, the court found that the statements did form part of the universe of unused material in the present case. That said, the court held that the Prosecution was still not obliged to disclose the statements since the common law disclosure obligations had not triggered. Specifically, there was no indication that the statements would have assisted the applicants or weakened the Prosecution’s case. There was no material to cast doubt on the Prosecution’s assessment that the statements were not disclosable at this stage. As such, the presumption that the Prosecution had acted in accordance with its disclosure obligations remained intact: (at [35])
13. The court held that the second condition for invoking the court’s revisionary jurisdiction – that there be material injustice occasioned as a result of the erroneous ruling – was not fulfilled either: (at [37] – [41]) 
14. The court held that it was difficult to assess whether injustice had arisen in the present case, given the nascent stage of the proceedings. Moreover, even without disclosure of the statements, it was open to the applicants to testify as to what had transpired since anything relevant in the s 22 statements would have pertained to matters that were known to them. This was especially so given that the applicants claimed to already know the contents of their statements. It was therefore unclear how prejudice could result from the Prosecution withholding the statements, the contents of which the applicants were apparently already aware of: (at [37] – [39])
15. Additionally, the Prosecution confirmed that it would make the statements available to the applicants in due course. The court observed that if it emerged at that point that prejudice had been caused by the earlier withholding of the statements and if the applicants had been wrongly convicted as a result, this was a point that could be taken up on appeal. Further, if it was established that the Prosecution had erred in denying the applicants access to these statements, this would weigh against the Prosecution: (at [41])
Additional observations by the court
 
16. The court acknowledged that on a plain reading of Kadar, the common law disclosure obligation would extend to an accused person’s own statements. However, it observed that the common law disclosure obligations appear to address situations where there is evidence gathered by enforcement agencies that the accused person cannot access or might not be aware of. The accused person’s own statements, being a form of evidence that emanates entirely from the accused person, may not fall within the universe of unused evidentiary material that the common law disclosure obligations were intended to address. The accused would invariably know the contents of his earlier statements and there would almost never be a situation where such evidence would be overlooked by the Defence despite its relevance as to the innocence of the accused person: (at [42] – [43])
17. That said, the court regarded the Court of Appeal's decision in Kadar as binding, and acknowledged that the common law disclosure obligations were not, on their face, constrained by any such limitation: (at [44])
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
