
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
15 March 2021
Case summary
Raj Kumar s/o Brisa Besnath v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 57
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9011 of 2020/01


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Vincent Hoong J):
Outcome: The High Court dismissed the appeal against the appellant’s conviction and sentence for committing criminal breach of trust in respect of moneys he had received from an online persona. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:

For offences under s 406 of the Penal Code, the actual identity of the party entrusting the property in question to the accused (“the entrusting party”) need not be proven and/or known to the accused. To establish entrustment, is sufficient that the appellant received possession of the property with the knowledge that: (i) the entrusting party had, at least, possessory rights to the property; and (ii) that he was to deal with the property in the manner instructed by the entrusting party (“the terms of the entrustment”) (at [42]).
For offences under s 406 of the Penal Code, the entrusting party need not legally own the property, so long as the entrusting party had some right to the property, including a bare possessory right (at [66]–[67]).

Background to the appeal
1 In the court below, the appellant, Raj Kumar s/o Brisa Besnath, claimed trial to a charge of criminal breach of trust (“CBT”) under s 406 of the Penal Code involving the dishonest misappropriation of $81,000. The District Judge (“DJ”) convicted the accused and sentenced him to 13 months’ imprisonment. The appellant appealed against his conviction and sentence. 
2 Sometime in 2012, while using an online platform which he referred to as an “adult finder”, the appellant came across a persona called “Maria Lloyd” (“Maria”). The respondent accepted that Maria’s actual identity remains unknown. The appellant and Maria began chatting via email. Subsequently, the appellant agreed to receive $89,000 on Maria’s behalf in Singapore and to hand it over to a man in Malaysia. The appellant was informed by Maria that someone would call him and pass him the money. About two days later, the appellant received a phone call from a lady named Melody Choong (“Melody”), who told him that she would be passing the money to him.
3 Pursuant to their arrangement over the phone, the appellant and Melody met at the NEX shopping mall in Serangoon on 9 March 2013. There, the appellant received an envelope containing $81,000 from Melody. When contacted by Melody on 10 March 2013, the appellant informed her that he “[had] a problem in checkpoint [sic]” and was “coming on bail soon when [his] Friend bail [him] out …”. However, the appellant did not subsequently bring the money to Malaysia as instructed by Maria and pocketed it for himself.
4 At the hearing of the appeal, the appellant only made submissions against his conviction. The appellant challenged his conviction by arguing that there can be no “entrustment” under s 405 of the Penal Code unless the actual identity of the entrusting party is proven and known to the appellant (“the narrow view”). This is because the relationship of trust under s 405 of the Penal Code (“the trust relationship”) has to be legitimate or genuine. A trust relationship which is created as a result of the entrusting party’s fraud and deceit is not valid or legally recognisable. The appellant also argued that the principle of consensus ad idem applied, and that in the absence of consensus ad idem on the present facts, no trust had arisen under s 405 of the Penal Code.
5 In response, the respondent argued that the identity of the entrusting party is not an element of the offence under s 406 of the Penal Code. Recognising the entrusting party’s identity to be an element of the offence of CBT would result in an absurd outcome where offenders are permitted to escape criminal liability solely because the source of the entrusted property cannot be traced to a specific person. The interpretation advanced by the respondent was that “entrusted” refers to the transference of possession of property, or some proprietary interest therein, for some purpose (“the broad view”). On this view, the focus of the element of entrustment is whether the manner and the circumstances in which possession, or some other proprietary interest, was transferred to the accused disclose an identifiable purpose for the said transfer which the accused then dishonestly violates. This does not require ascertaining the actual identity of the entrusting party.
6 The respondent also addressed the court on a separate legal issue that the appellant did not address at the hearing. Namely, the respondent argued that the property in question need not be legally owned by the entrusting party. However, the entrusting party must have some sort of right to the property; a mere possessory right would suffice.
The Court's decision
Whether actual identity of entrusting party must be proven and known by appellant 
7 On a purposive reading of s 405 of the Penal Code, the court adopted the broad view of “entrusted” advanced by the respondent. The following outlines the court’s reasons for adopting the broad view (at [39]–[61]).
8 First, the appellant’s narrow interpretation did not comport with the plain language of s 405. From the plain language of s 405, the identity of the entrusting party is not an element of the offence. Additionally, the words “in any manner” preceding the word “entrusted” in s 405 support a wide reading of entrustment. With this in mind, it becomes clear that the appellant’s suggestion for the identity of the entrusting party to form an element of CBT is an unprincipled addition to literal language of s 405 of the Penal Code (at [41]).
9 Second, the narrow view stifles, rather than promotes, the object of s 405 of the Penal Code (at [42]). From the elements of CBT disclosed in the text of s 405 itself, the provision’s object is to criminalise the dishonest abuse of trust reposed in a person in relation to property. It is this knowing or intentional betrayal of an initial trust placed in the accused person which the law does not condone (at [29]). Extraneous materials originating from the Law Commission of India tasked with drafting the Indian Penal Code and the Commissioners on the Criminal Law of England who drafted a digest of proposed criminal laws (“Digest”) also confirm that the gravamen of CBT and embezzlement (offences which are equivalent to each other), in the IPC and Digest respectively, is the accused person’s dishonesty in betraying the terms of entrustment (at [32]–[37]).
10 Given the object of CBT is to punish an accused person’s dishonest betrayal of the terms of entrustment, entrustment is established if the appellant received possession of the property with the knowledge that: (i) the entrusting party had, at least, possessory rights to the property; and (ii) that he was to deal with the property in accordance with the terms of the entrustment (at [42]). 
11 Third, the weight of authority lies in favour of adopting the broad view. The court agreed with the DJ that the High Court’s decision in Pittis Stavros v Public Prosecutor [2015] 3 SLR 181 is instructive. See Kee Oon JC’s (as he then was) willingness to remove the identity of the entrusting party from the charge concerning s 406 of the Penal Code shows that such identity is not an element of CBT (at [47]–[50]).
12 Fourth, the court was unable to agree with the appellant that the illustrations to s 405 of the Penal Code exclude the possibility of entrustment being established if the identity of the entrusting party is unknown. This is because s 7A(a) of the Interpretation Act (Cap 1, 2002 Rev Ed) makes clear that illustrations are not exhaustive of a provision’s scope of operation. Instead, primacy is given to the plain language and object of s 405 of the Penal Code, which, as reasoned above, support the broad view (at [55]). 
13 Fifth, the court rejected the appellant’s suggestion that the principle of consensus ad idem in civil law should be imported into criminal law in this case. Based on how the charge was framed (ie, as a dishonest misappropriation of property), the court was not concerned with whether a valid and binding contract was formed between the appellant and the entrusting party. Having regard to the object of s 405, the court was concerned with whether the appellant misappropriated the money in a dishonest manner, ie, in contravention of the terms of the entrustment. The appellant may still have acted dishonestly, in contravention of the terms of the entrustment, even if he was misled as to the entrusting party’s identity. Subjecting the ambit of entrustment to principles like consensus ad idem and doctrines like mistake and misrepresentation will undermine the object of the provision (at [56]). 
14 In addition, neither of the authorities cited by the appellant supported the importation of consensus ad idem into s 405 of the Penal Code for the purposes of this case. In particular, Wong Seng Kwan v Public Prosecutor [2012] 3 SLR 12 (“Wong Seng Kwan”) was a case where Steven Chong J (as he then was) had regard to common law principles, including personal property law and tort law, to determine what rights, if any, the innocent finder had in relation to the property he had found (see Wong Seng Kwan at [25] and [31]). As such, it is clear that Chong J was considering civil law principles in relation to title to property and did not address his mind to the question of whether contractual principles like consensus ad idem have any place in the criminal law (at [57]–[61]).
15 Applying the test for entrustment which the court set out (see [10] above), there was no reason to disturb the DJ’s finding that the appellant was entrusted with $81,000 by Maria when he received the money from Melody. The appellant’s testimony at the trial below showed that he knew he was to deal with the $81,000 in accordance with Maria’s instructions (ie, the terms of the entrustment) and that Maria minimally had possessory rights to the money and therefore the authority to impose the terms of the entrustment on him (at [62]–[65]).
Whether entrusting party must be legal owner of the property entrusted 
 
16 While the appellant did not make submissions on this issue, the court addressed it briefly as the respondent has addressed it in its written and oral submissions. Having considered the plain language and the object of s 405 of the Penal Code, there was no reason to depart from See JC’s holding in Pittis Stavros that the entrusting party need not legally own the property, so long as the entrusting party had some right to the property, including a bare possessory right (at [66]–[67]).
17 In the present case, even in the absence of evidence that the $81,000 was legally owned by Maria, the court was satisfied that Maria minimally had possessory rights to the money which she delegated to the appellant. The court agreed with the respondent that Maria’s right to possession is evidenced by “how Maria instructed the Appellant to meet Melody to receive the cash on her behalf, and what to do with the cash once he collected it…”. Accordingly, Maria had the authority to entrust the $81,000 to the appellant (at [68]).
Appeal against sentence
18 Although the appellant appealed against both his conviction and sentence, his counsel did not address the court on the issue of sentencing at the hearing. Nevertheless, the court dealt with the issue of sentencing briefly.
19 Having considered the DJ’s reasons for the sentence, the court was satisfied that the DJ had duly considered the relevant sentencing precedents and arrived at an appropriate sentence after accounting for the differences in the aggravating and mitigating factors when exercising her sentencing discretion and that the sentence imposed is not manifestly excessive. The court was also satisfied that the DJ did not fail to consider any relevant legal principles when sentencing the appellant (at [69]–[75]).
Conclusion
20 For the reasons above, the court dismissed the appellant’s appeal against his conviction and sentence.
 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
