
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
11 February 2021
Case summary
Superpark Oy v Super Park Asia Group Pte Ltd and others [2021] SGCA 8
Civil Appeal No 160 of 2020
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: Court of Appeal allows the appeal by the majority shareholder in a company and affirms that absent a special resolution by the members of a company, the company cannot be voluntarily wound up. The Court of Appeal also clarifies the interaction between ss 290(1)(b) and 291(6)(a) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (Version in force before 30 July 2020) (“the CA”).
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

A a company cannot be voluntarily wound up by its creditors if its members have not passed any special resolution to that effect: at [47] and [48].
In the situation where a provisional liquidator has been appointed before the resolution for voluntary winding up was passed, a voluntary winding up commences at the time the directors of the company lodge a declaration with the Registrar that the company cannot by reason of its liabilities continue its business, and that meetings of the company and of its creditors have been summoned for a date within one month of the date of the declaration. This is in line with the plain wording of s 291(6)(a) of the CA, which applies to retrospectively date the commencement of the winding up as the time of the lodgement of the declaration (in situations where this took place prior to the passing of the resolution for winding up). Section 291(6)(a) is not a provision that contemplates a voluntary winding up occurring even without the passing of a member’s resolution for winding up: at [73].
Provisional liquidators should not be permitted to continue holding themselves out as any manner of insolvency professional of a company if their position is not confirmed after their term as provisional liquidators has come to an end: at [99] and [100].

Background to the appeal
1 This appeal arose out of an order (“the Order”) by the Judge below (“the Judge”) given on 29 July 2020 permitting the second and third respondents, who had been appointed as provisional liquidators of the first respondent, to continue with their efforts to dispose of the first respondent’s assets. The Order also stipulated that the appellant, who had resisted the making of the Order, had until 5 August 2020 to either put the first respondent into judicial management or find other means to restructure or rehabilitate it, failing which the Court would allow the “liquidation process … to continue to its conclusion”. 
2 The appellant, the majority shareholder of the first respondent, denied that any creditors’ voluntary winding up of the first respondent had commenced and/or continued to the present. The minority shareholder, one Mark Ananda Kumarasinhe (“Kumarasinhe”), was at least partially funding the second and third respondents, who were appointed as the first respondent’s provisional liquidators on 17 June 2020. On their part, the second and third respondents argued that a creditors’ voluntary winding up had commenced and could not be terminated without a court order specifically stipulating so. The second and third respondents accordingly argued that they should be entitled to continue disposing of the first respondent’s assets. 
3 The appellant, Superpark Oy, is a company incorporated in Finland as a holding company in the SuperPark group structure. The appellant is the majority shareholder of the first respondent, Super Park Asia Group Pte Ltd (“SPAG”, or the “first respondent”), holding 78.33% of its shares. SPAG was incorporated in Singapore on 15 May 2018 as a private company limited by shares, and is described as being in the business of sports clubs and associations. SPAG was set up as an investment holding company for the operating subsidiaries of the SuperPark Group in Asia, and wholly owns a number of subsidiaries. SPAG’s other owners are Treasure Step Global Limited (“Treasure”), and Vintex Oy (“Vintex”). Kumarasinhe is a director and shareholder of Treasure.
4 Prior to the appointment of the second and third respondents as provisional liquidators, the directors of SPAG were Juha Tapani Tanskanen (“Juha”), who is the appellant’s CEO, Kumarasinhe, and one Goh Ke Ching, the park manager and supervisor of the first respondent’s subsidiary in Singapore. Juha was the appellant’s representative on the board of directors of SPAG.
5 The relationship between the appellant and Kumarasinhe began to break down sometime in or around the latter half of 2019. On 17 June 2020, Kumarasinhe tabled a board resolution at a meeting over Zoom to put SPAG in provisional liquidation. No prior notice concerning such a resolution had been given to Juha or the appellant, and the resolution passed with votes from Kumarasinhe and Goh Ke Ching despite Juha’s objections that no notice had been given. The directors’ resolution passed on 17 June 2020 was to the effect that, inter alia:
 

The directors declared that SPAG was unable to continue business by reason of its liabilities;
The second and third respondents were appointed as joint and several provisional liquidators;
An extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”) be convened on 16 July 2020 to propose (i) a special resolution to voluntarily wind-up the company, and (ii) an ordinary resolution to appoint the second and third respondents as joint and several liquidators in such winding up; and
A creditors’ meeting be convened on 16 July 2020 to, inter alia, confirm the appointment of the second and third respondents as joint and several liquidators of SPAG

On the same day, the said directors lodged the requisite statutory declaration under s 291 of the CA. 
 
6 On 2 July 2020, the appellant held an EGM of the first respondent and passed a number of resolutions. The resolutions entailed removing and replacing Kumarasinhe and Goh Ke Ching, terminating the provisional liquidation, and declaring that the company was not to be voluntarily wound up. There were a number of procedural irregularities with the passing of these resolutions. 
7 On 8 July 2020, the second and third respondents commenced HC/OS 656/2020 (“OS 656”), in which they sought a declaration that the EGM resolution of 2 July 2020 purporting to terminate the voluntary winding up of SPAG and remove the second and third respondents was invalid. At the same time, the second and third respondents also filed SUM 2700/2020 (“SUM 2700”) seeking, inter alia, an injunction restraining the appellant from taking any action inconsistent with SPAG being in provisional liquidation. The Judge granted SUM 2700.
8 On 13 July 2020, the appellant commenced HC/OS 671/2020 (“OS 671”) for, inter alia, a declaration that the provisional liquidation and any voluntary winding up of SPAG would be terminated at an EGM of SPAG dated 16 July 2020, one month after the provisional liquidators were appointed. Simultaneously, the appellant also filed SUM 2791/2020 (“SUM 2791”) seeking an order, inter alia, restraining the second and third respondents from taking any further steps in the provisional liquidation of the first respondent until 16 July 2020 or further order, whichever is earlier, save for payments made in the ordinary course of business and correspondence in the name of SPAG as required by law. 
9 On 16 July 2020, the relevant meetings outlined at [5c] and [5d] above were held. As matters transpired, the second and third respondents failed to win the relevant support from the members of the company to have the company placed into voluntary winding up, but did manage to win the support of the majority of the creditors of the company.
10 The Judge’s decision in OS 671 and SUM 2791 was the subject of the present appeal. On 29 July 2020, the Judge made the following order in resolution of both SUM 2791 and SUM 2859 (“the Judge’s Order”):
The 2nd and 3rd Respondents are allowed to continue with their efforts to dispose of the assets of the company and those of the subsidiaries on the understanding that there will be no advertisement. Any sale negotiations will be done by private treaty. The [appellant] has until Wed 5/8/20 to either put the company into judicial management or find other means to restructure or rehabilitate the company. Failing any concrete action by the [appellant], the court will allow the liquidation process of the company to continue to its conclusion. 
 
11 The parties agreed to dispense with any written grounds of decision. Leave to appeal against the Judge’s Order was entered by consent, and the parties agreed for three questions of law to be referred to the Court of Appeal:

In the event that a voluntary winding up is commenced pursuant to s 291(6)(a) of the CA, when and how can it be terminated (“Question 1”)?
Does s 291(6)(a) of the CA mean that a voluntary winding up commences upon the directors passing a resolution to appoint provisional liquidators under s 291(1) of the CA, regardless of whether the members’ resolution for voluntary winding up is passed pursuant to s 290 of the CA (“Question 2”)?
Can the creditors of a company voluntarily wind-up a company (assuming the voluntary winding up has not already commenced pursuant to s 291(6)(a) of the CA) and/or appoint liquidators in a voluntary winding-up, if the members have not passed any resolutions to that effect pursuant to s 290(b) of the CA (“Question 3”)?

12 On 5 August 2020, prior to the hearing of this appeal by the Court of Appeal but after the Judge’s Order had been made, the appellant commenced OS 761 for SPAG to be placed under judicial management pursuant to s 91 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act (No 40 of 2018). On the same day, the appellant also filed SUM 3235/2020 (“SUM 3235”) for SPAG to be placed under interim judicial management (“IJM”). A separate High Court Judge granted SUM 3235, observing that he did not understand SPAG to be in liquidation because no shareholders’ resolution had been passed to voluntarily wind up the company. 
The Court of Appeal’s decision
13 The Court of Appeal allowed CA 160 of 2020. 
14 Among the three questions of law posed, it was more appropriate to begin the analysis with Question 3, which dealt with the issue of whether or not the creditors of a company even had the capacity to voluntarily wind up a company if no special resolutions to that effect had been passed by the members. This was logically anterior to Question 2, which dealt with precisely when the voluntary winding up could be said to commence, and Question 1, which addressed the termination of any such winding up: at [46]. 
15 Question 3 should be answered in the negative. There are three reasons for this: at [48].
16 First, and most directly, a company may not be voluntarily wound up by its creditors if its members have not passed any special resolutions to that effect because of the plain and unambiguous wording of s 290 of the CA. Section 290(1) of the CA provides only two circumstances in which a company may be wound up voluntarily. Notably, if s 290(1)(a) of the CA is not satisfied, the only other stipulated avenue of carrying out a voluntary winding up is if “the company so resolves by special resolution”, as stated in s 290(1)(b) of the CA. The positioning of s 290(1) of the CA, as the very first provision under Division III of Part X of the CA, has the effect of establishing the ambit of Division III relating to all matters concerning voluntary winding-up. The fact that s 290(1) sets out the two limbs exhaustively is therefore significant in determining the circumstances in which a voluntary winding-up may be commenced: at [50]. 
17 Second, allowing a company to be “voluntarily” wound up by its creditors in the absence of a special resolution passed by its members is at odds with the very notion of voluntariness which underpins the entire distinction between a voluntary and court-ordered/compulsory winding up: at [51]–[58]. 
18 Third, answering Question 3 in the affirmative would render s 290(1)(b) of the CA effectively otiose in the context of creditors’ voluntary winding up. If the appointment of provisional liquidators and a determination by the provisional liquidators that the company was insolvent could, without more, cause a company to be in liquidation, with all of the attendant changes in legal status that entails, there would be no real need for the passing of a special resolution by the company’s members. A creditor could have the company placed in liquidation without the oversight by the Court which accompanies a compulsory winding up if the requirement for a special resolution was, in effect, “read out” of the statute: at [59].
19 Question 2 is inextricably linked with Question 3. As Question 3 has been answered in the negative, it follows that a voluntary winding up cannot be said to commence upon the directors passing a resolution appointing provisional liquidators if the members’ special resolution for winding up is not passed. The Court nonetheless reframed Question 2 to consider precisely when a creditors’ voluntary winding up can be said to have commenced, particularly in light of s 291(6)(a) of the CA: at [49].
20 A voluntary winding up commences at the time the directors of the company lodge a declaration with the Registrar that the company cannot by reason of its liabilities continue its business, and that meetings of the company and of its creditors have been summoned for a date within one month of the date of the declaration (“the Declaration”) in the situation where a provisional liquidator has been appointed before the resolution for voluntary winding up was passed. This is in line with the plain wording of s 291(6)(a) of the CA. What is key, however, is that s 291(6)(a) of the CA only operates “where a provisional liquidator has been appointed before the resolution for voluntary winding up was passed” (emphasis added). In other words, s 291(6)(a) only operates where the resolution for voluntary winding up has already been passed. In that sense, it may be best understood as a provision that retrospectively dates the commencement of the winding up as the time of the lodgement of the Declaration (in situations where this took place prior to the passing of the resolution for winding up): at [73].
21 Section 291(6) therefore stipulates that a voluntary winding up may be said to commence at the time the Declaration is lodged only in situations where (a) a provisional liquidator is appointed, and (b) after that appointment, the resolution for voluntary winding up was passed. These two requirements are conjunctive. In any other case, the point at which the voluntary winding up commences would be determined by s 291(6)(b) as being the time of the passing of the resolution for voluntary winding up: at [74].
22 The reasons underpinning this conclusion on Question 2 were fairly straightforward. Apart from giving effect to the use of the term “was” in the text of s 291(6)(a) of the CA itself (as outlined at [73] above), deciding that the operation of s 291(6)(a) requires the resolution for voluntary winding up to have already been passed reflects the fact that there must be consent by the members before a company may be voluntarily wound up: at [75].
23 Question 1 was rendered fairly irrelevant given the Court’s findings on Questions 2 and 3. A creditors’ voluntary winding up simply did not exist on the facts because no members’ resolution for winding up had ever been passed, and accordingly no issue of termination arose: at [97].
24 Applying the answers to Questions 2 and 3 to the instant facts, the Court made three conclusions. First, the company is not and never has been in liquidation. There was no impediment to the order in SUM 3235 placing it under IJM, and the interim judicial managers appointed should be entitled to continue their work, pending any further orders of the court. Second, the second and third respondents should not have been allowed to continue to dispose of the assets of the company. Their term as provisional liquidators had come to an end. Third and accordingly, SUM 2791 ought to have been granted, and the second and third respondents should have been enjoined from holding themselves out as any manner of insolvency professional of SPAG after 16 July 2020: at [99]–[100]. 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
