
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 September 2023Case summaryW. Power Group EOOD v Ming Yang Wind Power (International) Co. Ltd [2023] SGHC(I) 15SIC/OA 2/2023 (SIC/SUM 13/2023)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Thomas Bathurst IJ):Outcome: SICC orders W. Power Group EOOD (“WPG”) to provide security of S$70,000 for Ming Yang Wind Power (International) Co. Ltd’s (“Ming Yang”) costs up to the commencement of trial, with Ming Yang having liberty to apply for further and subsequent security if necessary. Background 1. The claimant, WPG, was a Bulgarian company and described itself as an international developer engaged in investing and developing wind farms in Bulgaria, Romania and other countries. The defendant, Ming Yang, was a Chinese wind turbine manufacturer engaged in the design, manufacture, construction, sales and services of wind turbines in the global market. WPG and Ming Yang had entered into a joint venture agreement to establish a joint venture company for the purpose of developing two wind farm projects. In SIC/OA 2/2023 WPG claims Ming Yang breached its obligations under the joint venture agreement essentially by failing to secure financing for one of the two projects (the “second project”) and by withdrawing a performance guarantee for the same project. Ming Yang’s defence broadly speaking stated that certain changes to the legal and regulatory regime introduced by the Bulgarian government had negatively affected renewable energy projects such as the second project. Consequently, the second project was no longer viable and the parties had agreed not to proceed with it sometime in 2012.2. Ming Yang has applied for WPG to provide security for its costs of the proceedings. Ming Yang sought security of S$80,000 to cover its costs up to the commencement of the trial and made five points in support of its application. First, WPG is ordinarily resident out of jurisdiction so what it described as the threshold in Order 9 Rule 12(1)(a) of the Rules of Court 2021 was met. Second, the evidence demonstrated WPG’s impecuniosity. Third, Ming Yang submitted that it would not be able to enforce a judgment for costs against WPG without considerable difficulty, uncertainty, risk or delay. It referred to the uncertainty of enforcing a judgment in Bulgaria and that the Hague Convention on Choice of Court Agreements 2005 (“Choice of Court Convention”) to which both Singapore and Bulgaria are parties would be meaningless if WPG had no assets against which any judgment could be enforced. Fourth, there had been no delay in making the application such as to disentitle it to security. Finally it was submitted that the quantum of security sought was reasonable in the circumstances of the case.3. In response, WPG sought to place some reliance on the merits of its claim. WPG also contended that it was a special purpose vehicle with only one purpose, namely, to execute the joint venture agreement. If there was a breach of the joint venture agreement and if WPG had no other activities, it would only be natural that its balance sheet would be “in the red”. WPG therefore submitted that if its impecuniosity was caused by Ming Yang, an application for security should not be used to stultify WPG’s claim. WPG also contended that there was delay in bringing the application for security. The court’s decision 4. This being a case transferred to the Singapore International Commercial Court (the “SICC”), the parties agreed that the domestic Rules of the Supreme Court (ie, the Rules of Court 2021) apply to Ming Yang’s application for security for costs: at [8].5. The requirements of s 388 of the Companies Act 1967 (2020 Rev Ed) are made out. Having regard to WPG’s audited financial statements for 2012, WPG was at that time insolvent and the evidence would suggest that it has not traded since that time. In these circumstances the fact that Bulgaria is a party to the Choice of Court Convention provides no assistance to WPG: at [21]. 6. There has not been substantial delay in making the application such as to deprive Ming Yang of its right to security: at [22].7. The court was prepared to accept that if it was established that the impecuniosity of the claimant was caused by the conduct of the defendant or if the application was used to stifle a legitimate claim, then security should not be awarded. However, no evidence was brought to show that WPG would have a good chance of succeeding much less that its impecuniosity was caused by Ming Yang’s conduct in the transaction the subject of the proceedings. Although it was suggested in the submissions that WPG was a special purpose vehicle, there was no direct evidence to support the assertion. On the contrary, WPG in its statement of claim stated that it was an international developer engaged in investing in and developing wind farms in Bulgaria, Romania and other countries: at [23]–[24].8. This was not a case where the reasons for and against the grant of security were evenly balanced. The court took the view that security should be ordered: at [25]. 9. Having regard to the different manner in which costs are assessed in proceedings before the SICC, the guidance provided by Appendix G to the Supreme Court Practice Directions 2021 as well as the complexity of the matter, the court fixed security at S$70,000 for Ming Yang’s costs up to the commencement of trial: at [26]–[30].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
