
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
20 January 2021
Case summary
CBS v CBP [2021] SGCA 4
Civil Appeal No 30 of 2020
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Quentin Loh JAD):
Outcome: CoA upholds the High Court’s decision to set aside an SCMA arbitration award for breach of natural justice. 
Background 
1. The appellant, CBS, is a bank incorporated in Singapore (“the Bank”). The respondent, CBP, is a company incorporated in India, which is engaged in the business of steel manufacturing and power generation (“the Buyer”). The Buyer purchased 50,000 MT of coal from a seller. No disputes arose from the first shipment of 30,000 MT of coal. The disputes arose on the second shipment of 20,000 MT of coal. 
2. The seller meanwhile had entered into an Accounts Receivable Purchase Facility with the Bank, assigning its trade debts to the Bank, so that “all amounts due both now and in the future, in respect of invoices, [were payable] only to [the Bank]”. The Bank sought payment for the 20,000MT of coal that had been delivered to the Buyer. The Buyer refused to make payment, stating that the full 20,000 MT of coal had not been delivered and that there had been a subsequent agreement with the seller to pay less for the coal. 
3. The Bank eventually commenced an arbitration, as required, pursuant to the Rules of the Singapore Chamber of Maritime Arbitration (3rd Edition, 2015) (“SCMA Rules”). The Buyer breached various timelines set by the Arbitrator and was less than cooperative in the arbitral process. After a delayed filing of the Buyer’s defence, the Arbitrator asked the parties to consider whether an oral hearing was necessary. The Buyer requested a hearing for witnesses to give evidence on what transpired at a meeting alleging that there was a subsequent meeting and an agreement to reduce the price of the coal. The Arbitrator ruled that the Buyer had to submit its proposed witness statements so that he could decide if they had substantive value before he would convene a hearing. The Buyer refused to do so insisting on its right to call witnesses without such a condition. The Arbitrator then convened a hearing for oral submissions only. The Buyer withdrew from further participation in the arbitration. The arbitrator found that all 20,000 MT of coal had indeed been delivered, and that there had been no subsequent agreement for an adjustment of the price to be paid for the coal. Accordingly, the arbitrator allowed the Bank’s claim for the US$1,480,400 due, as well as interest (“the Final Award”).
4. The Buyer challenged the award, claiming inter alia, that there had been a breach of natural justice. The High Court Judge who heard the matter (“the Judge below”) agreed with the Buyer and set aside the entirety of the Final Award. The Bank appealed. 
The court's decision
5. There were four broad issues: first, whether there had been a breach of natural justice; second, whether the breach (if any) had affected the Final Award; third, whether the Buyer had been prejudiced in any manner and fourth, what would the appropriate remedy be. 
6. On the first issue, the court found that there had been a breach of natural justice as the Buyer did not have a “full opportunity” to present its case. What is considered a “full opportunity” is a fact-sensitive inquiry and the question is whether “what the tribunal did (or decided not to do) falls within the range of what a reasonable and fair-minded tribunal in those circumstances might have done”. This is assessed by reference to what the tribunal knew at the time and a court will generally accord a margin of deference to the tribunal in matters of procedure: at [51] and [78]. 
7. The court held that under rule 28.1 of the SMCA Rules, there are only two broad situations where a hearing need not be held: first, where the parties have agreed to a document-only arbitration without witness testimony whether oral or written; and second, where the parties agree that no hearing would be held at all. Accordingly, unless parties have agreed on a documents-only arbitration or that no hearing being held at all, the arbitrator was obliged to hold a hearing to receive oral evidence from witnesses where it was requested by a party; the arbitrator had no power to decide to convene a hearing only for oral submissions instead. Rule 28.1 of the SCMA did not give the tribunal the power to choose what type of hearing to hold in the absence of an agreement by the parties: at [55]–[57].
8. Explaining further, the court held that although tribunals have the power to limit the oral examination of witnesses as part of their general case management powers, this cannot override the rules of natural justice. Indeed, the SCMA Rules do not explicitly confer a broad and unqualified power on the tribunal to gate witnesses and rule 25 expressly qualifies the “widest discretion” conferred on arbitrators in the conduct of proceedings to be that “allowed by” the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed): at [61] and [69].
9. Here, the Buyer was unequivocal in requesting a hearing for the presentation of oral evidence. It had also disclosed sufficient facts that gave the Bank notice as to what the Buyer’s material allegations were and what the evidence of these witnesses would entail.However, the arbitrator imposed a condition on the Buyer to show, in the form of witness statements, that its evidence had “substantive value” before deciding whether to allow it through an oral hearing. The Buyer was thus faced with a veritable Hobson’s choice: on the one hand, the arbitrator had repeatedly insisted on the witness statements to decide whether to convene an oral hearing; on the other hand, if it had acceded to the arbitrator’s request, it might be taken to have agreed with the arbitrator that he had the power to decide whether or not to deny their request for a hearing of the witness testimony. The arbitrator fell into error when it put the Buyer into this position by ruling that whether a hearing for witness testimony would be convened would be determined based on the “substantive value” of the Buyer’s witness statements, which had to be submitted beforehand: at [57], [71], [73], [74] and [78].
10. On the second issue, the question was whether the breach of natural justice was directly connected to the making of the Final Award. The Bank’s argument was that the breach was the result of the Buyer’s own dilatory actions. The court rejected this argument, finding instead that the real cause of the arbitrator’s direction was a misapprehension of his powers under the SCMA Rules: at [81].
11. On the third issue, the central question was whether the breach of natural justice “was merely technical and inconsequential or whether as a result of the breach, the arbitrator was denied the benefit of arguments or evidence that had a real as opposed to a fanciful chance of making a difference to his deliberations”: at [84].
12. The court accepted that the breach of natural justice had resulted in prejudice to the Buyer. The Buyer’s defence rested on the formation of a subsequent oral agreement in December 2015. Hence it was plausible that the parties had agreed to a reduced price of US$61 per MT for the coal. The witnesses the Buyer sought to call could have given evidence regarding this oral agreement and when the witnesses’ evidence was shut out altogether, it is plain The Buyer was prejudiced: at [85].
13. On the fourth issue, the court declined to partially set aside the Final Award. The Bank argued that even if the court were to accept the Buyer’s defence of an oral agreement reducing the price of the coal, it would only reduce the overall contract price payable by some 17%. The court found that it was not the role of the court to apply a pro tanto reduction to the sum awarded by an arbitrator. The Judge below could not be faulted for not considering this alternative because the Bank had not raised this remedy before the him and further, had the Judge below allowed a partial setting aside, the doctrine of merger may have operated to obviate the Bank from pursuing a claim for the difference of 17% in a separate proceeding: at [93]–[94].
14. The court also refused to remit the matter to the tribunal. The main question was whether the power of the court under Art 34(4) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“the Model Law”) to order a remittal of an award to the arbitrator with a view to curing a breach of natural justice that affects that award, was available to the Court of Appeal in circumstances where (i) the award has already been set aside by the High Court, before which no request was made for an order for remittal; and (ii) the Court of Appeal was otherwise satisfied that there has been a breach of natural justice and that the High Court’s decision was correct: at [95(a)].
15. Pursuant to Article 34(4) of the Model Law, only the court “asked to set aside an award” could, where appropriate and so requested by a party, remit the matter to the tribunal for further consideration. The “court” referred to in Art 34(4) of the Model Law was the same court referred to in Art 34(2) of the Model Law, namely, the High Court. It followed that only the High Court could order a remittal to the tribunal. Moreover, since the Buyer had already succeeded in setting aside the Final Award before the High Court, and since there was no basis for reversing the Judge’s decision to do so, the issue or remittal did not arise: at [103].
16. Moreover, the Court of Appeal had no original jurisdiction to deal with an ab initio application to remit the matter since its role was limited to reviewing the High Court’s decision on the issue. The present application for remittal, having not been made before the Judge below, was beyond the court’s jurisdiction: at [106]–[108].
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
