
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE25 September 2023Case summaryParastate Labs Inc v Wang Li [2023] SGCA 27Civil Appeal No 16 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: Court of Appeal allowed appeal against decision to limit quantum of Mareva injunction to half the amount sought.  Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A material non-disclosure in an ex parte application for a Mareva injunction typically results in the discharge of the injunction and not merely a reduction of the quantum of the injunction. Such a material non-disclosure generally has a bearing either on (a) the requirements for the grant of a Mareva injunction; or (b) the applicant’s ability to honour its undertaking as to damages. In other words, the non-disclosure is one that has a material bearing on the merits of the Mareva injunction application. •  In the present case, the appellant’s failure to comply with certain requirements in the Supreme Court Practice Directions 2021 (the “SCPD 2021”) (to state the assets available to meet its undertaking as to damages and to include certain prescribed undertakings in its application) did not constitute material non-disclosures. Neither instance of non-compliance had an impact on the Judge’s findings of a good arguable case and a real risk of dissipation of assets, or the appellant’s ability to honour its undertaking as to damages. •  The proportionate and principled response to the unsatisfactory state of the appellant’s evidence as to its available assets was to order adequate fortification rather than to limit the quantum of the injunction. It bears noting that an order for fortification is sensitive to the real risk of losses to the defendant that may result from the grant and implementation of the injunction.  Background to the appeal1 The appellant had invested US$5 million worth of cryptocurrency in a fund managed by entities that the respondent was a co-founder and director of. These entities traded under the name “Babel Finance”. When the appellant sought to withdraw its investment, it was informed that Babel Finance could not meet the request because, among other things, the fund’s account had been liquidated by the cryptocurrency exchange platform due to Babel Finance’s other accounts exceeding their maintenance margins. 2 The appellant thus commenced proceedings against the respondent and other defendants, alleging, among other things, that Babel Finance had breached their fiduciary and/or trustee duties owed to the appellant in respect of the investment, and the respondent was liable for dishonestly assisting in those breaches. In these proceedings, the appellant took out an ex parte Mareva injunction against the respondent.  3 The judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”) found that the appellant had established a good arguable case against the respondent and that there was a real risk of dissipation of assets. However, the Judge limited the quantum of the injunction to half the amount claimed (ie, US$2.5 million), considering it just and convenient to do so having regard to the appellant’s conduct. 4 The conduct in question referred to two irregularities in the Mareva injunction application. First, in the appellant’s supporting affidavit for its ex parte injunction application, the appellant failed to state the assets that are available to meet its undertaking as to damages and to whom the assets belong. This was omitted in breach of paragraph 73(1)(f) of the SCPD 2021 (the “Failure to State Available Assets”). The breach was not corrected even after the Judge had directed for the appellant to address it. Second, the appellant failed to include in its application the prescribed undertakings 9 and 10 provided for in Form 25 of the SCPD 2021 without explanation and without bringing the omissions to the Judge’s attention (the “Failure to Include Prescribed Undertakings”). At the inter partes hearing, counsel for the appellant accepted that the prescribed undertakings should be included, and they were accordingly incorporated into the Mareva injunction that the Judge granted.5 The Judge considered the Failure to State Available Assets and the Failure to Include Prescribed Undertakings to be “material non-disclosures” and took them into account in deciding to limit the quantum of the injunction granted. The Judge also ordered that the appellant fortify its undertaking as to damages by paying S$50,000 into court.    6 The appellant appealed against the Judge’s decision, arguing that the full quantum of US$5 million should be injuncted. The Court’s decision7 The Court allowed the appeal and ordered that the injunction granted shall cover assets of up to US$5 million. However, the Court also ordered that the appellant shall provide additional fortification so that the total amount available shall be US$100,000: at [6].8 The Court observed that material non-disclosures typically caused the injunction to be discharged rather than a reduction of the quantum of the injunction. Such material non-disclosures generally had a bearing either on (a) the requirements for the grant of a Mareva injunction; or (b) the applicant’s ability to honour its undertaking as to damages. In other words, the non-disclosures had a material bearing on the merits of the Mareva injunction applications. There was no authority for the exercise of discretion to reduce the quantum of an injunction for an indivisible claim notwithstanding the establishment of a good arguable case for the entire claim and a real risk of dissipation of the defendant’s assets: at [24].9 The Court considered that the Failure to State Available Assets and Failure to Include Prescribed Undertakings, while unacceptable for non-compliance with the SCPD 2021, were not material non-disclosures. This was because neither had an impact on the Judge’s findings of a good arguable case and a real risk of dissipation of assets, or the appellant’s ability to honour its undertaking as to damages. The prescribed undertakings that were initially omitted were, in any event, ultimately included in the Mareva injunction ordered by the Judge: at [25] and [26].10 The Court held that the proportionate and principled response to the unsatisfactory state of the appellant’s evidence was to order adequate fortification rather than to limit the quantum of the injunction. The impact of limiting the quantum of the injunction was that should the appellant ultimately succeed in its claim, only half the claimed sum would have been enjoined. This was not the proportionate response when the requirements for the grant of the Mareva injunction for the full claim had been met. There was no principled basis for a reduction by half of the quantum of the injunction for an otherwise indivisible claim, where the non-compliance had no impact on the underlying cause of action or the undertaking as to damages: at [30].11 An order for fortification must be sensitive to the real risk of losses to the defendant that may result from the grant and implementation of the injunction. There was no material before the Court as to what losses the respondent in the present case may suffer. However, the Court also did not think it would have been appropriate to ignore the appellant’s unexplained non-compliance with the SCPD 2021. The Court therefore ordered an increase in fortification from S$50,000 to US$100,000: at [31] and [32]. 12 For these reasons, the Court allowed the appeal: at [33].    This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
