
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
5 November 2020
Case summary
Siva Kumar s/o Avadiar v Quek Leng Chuang and others [2020] SGCA 110 
Civil Appeal No 59 of 2020

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered Judge of Appeal Steven Chong):
Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses the appeal.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

CoA observes that a key distinction should be drawn between the terms “jurisdiction” and “power” as two distinct and entirely different concepts and in the present appeal, the true issue concerned the power exercised by the High Court (ie, the High Court’s capacity to give effect to its determination in granting the orders or reliefs sought by the successful party to the dispute), and not its jurisdiction (ie, the authority, however derived, to hear and determine a dispute that is brought before it): at [42] and [43].
CoA holds that the court had the inherent power to grant consent orders providing for one party to purchase the shares of the other, even without a prior finding of minority oppression: at [60].

Background facts
1 The 3rd respondent, Environmental Solutions (Asia) Pte Ltd (“the Company”) was founded by the appellant, Mr Siva Kumar, the 1st respondent, Mr Quek Leng Chuang and Mr James Traazil. The Company was incorporated on 8 May 1999. The appellant presently holds 992,500 shares (49.625%) in the Company. The appellant was a director of the Company from 22 November 1999 to 27 May 2019. The 1st respondent holds 992,500 shares (49.625%) in the Company and is presently its sole director. The 2nd respondent, Mr Traazil Leon, who is the son of the late Mr James Traazil, holds the balance 15,000 shares (0.75%) in the Company, and became a shareholder of the Company on 18 January 2019, after the said shares were transferred to him from the estate of Mr James Traazil.
2 Sometime in January 2018, the relationship between the appellant and the 1st respondent began to deteriorate over various business disagreements.On 29 January 2019, the appellant was served a notice of an Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) to be held on 18 February 2019 to remove him as director of the Company and to appoint the 2nd respondent as director in the appellant’s stead. As a result, the appellant commenced HC/S 168/2019 (“Suit 168”) on 7 February 2019 against the respondents for minority oppression, amongst others, seeking various reliefs, inter alia, an order for the appellant or the Company to buy out the shares of the 1st and 2nd respondents at fair value; or alternatively for the 1st and 2nd respondents or the Company to buy his shares at fair value. On 9 May 2019, the appellant obtained various court orders including an interim injunction restraining any EGMs of the Company to appoint a new director of the Company until 24 May 2019.
3 On 24 May 2019, the parties reached a settlement in Suit 168 and by consent, applied to the High Court to record the Consent Order which was duly granted. The Consent Order provided for the 1st and 2nd respondents to purchase the appellant’s shares in the Company at a price to be determined by an independent valuer (“Valuer”). The Consent Order also provided for the resignation of the appellant as a director of the Company and withdrawal of all allegations stated in the appellant’s and the 1st and 2nd respondents’ pleadings against each other.
4 The appellant resigned as a director of the Company on 27 May 2019. Thereafter, the parties took steps to perform their obligations pursuant to the Consent Order, including (a) jointly appointing Nexia TS Pte Ltd (“Nexia”) as the Valuer on 15 August 2019; (b) providing the documents requested by Nexia; and (c) making three sets of submissions to Nexia on 6 September 2019, 29 October 2019 and 25 November 2019 respectively in respect of the valuation. Upon Nexia’s review of each set of submissions, Nexia provided the parties with two draft reports before issuing the Final Report. 
5 On 10 October 2019, Nexia issued its first draft valuation report, valuing the appellant’s shares at US$703,000. On 11 November 2019, Nexia issued the second draft report, valuing the appellant’s share of US$487,000. On 4 December 2019, Nexia issued the Final Report valuing the appellant’s shares at US$395,000. In all three valuation reports, Nexia was consistently of the view that a lack of marketability discount of 25% from the gross valuation of the appellant’s shares would apply. 
6 On 20 January 2020, the appellant filed HC/OS 83/2020 (“OS 83”) to set aside the Consent Order and for Suit 168 to proceed to trial. On 6 March 2020, the High Court judge (“the Judge”) dismissed OS 83 and observed that the appellant was in truth trying to get out of what had turned out to be a bad bargain for his shares, after having had sight of the report of Nexia.
7 The appellant appealed against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) to dismiss OS 83, submitting that the Judge erred in her decision not to set aside the Consent Order because (a) the High Court did not have the jurisdiction to grant the Consent Order; (b) the Consent Order ought to have been set aside by virtue of mistake; and (c) it would be inequitable to enforce the Consent Order. The appellant also submitted that based on his interpretation of both the majority and minority decisions in Liew Kit Fah and others v Koh Keng Chew and others [2020] 1 SLR 275 (“Liew Kit Fah”), the court could not order a buy-out of shares by a majority shareholder from the minority shareholder, or vice versa, without a finding of minority oppression under s 216 of the Companies Act.
The Court of Appeal’s decision
Relevance of Liew Kit Fah
8 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) held that this was an entirely opportunistic attempt by the appellant to rely on a misreading of the Court’s decision in Liew Kit Fah to get out of a bad bargain as the independent valuation of his shares was unsatisfactory to him. The present facts were far removed and entirely distinguishable from the facts in Liew Kit Fah. In the present case, the ambit of the Consent Order was quite different as parties came to a settlement and appeared before the High Court to record the agreed terms of a settlement in a consent order. The High Court did not make any substantive determination of any issue in Suit 168. Further, when the parties entered into the Consent Order, it was clear that the parties intended to abandon all claims and counter-claims, including that of minority oppression, against each other. The Court observed that the present case simply involved a settlement agreement between the parties that was recorded as a consent order by the High Court: at [4], [31]–[34].
9 The Court held that the appellant’s submission that Liew Kit Fah established that if the parties opted to enter into a consent order without having the issue of minority oppression determined, they would be deemed to be willing buyers and willing sellers, and thus the discounts for lack of control and lack of marketability discount could apply was premised on an erroneous interpretation of Liew Kit Fah. In Liew Kit Fah, it was held to the contrary that unlike the minority discount for lack of control, the discount for lack of marketability was “industry specific” and should be left to “the expertise of the independent valuer to decide whether to apply the lack of marketability discount for the respondents’ shares”: [35] and [36].
10 The Court observed that the real unhappiness of the appellant was with Nexia’s final valuation of the appellant’s shares itself, and not with the application of the lack of marketability discount per se. When parties agreed to the joint appointment of an independent valuer, it would be within the parties’ contemplation that the valuer may arrive at a valuation which is different from the way each of them may subjectively value their respective shares. However, in agreeing to a valuation by a jointly appointed independent valuer, the parties must be bound by the resultant valuation. Further, it was clear to the Court that Liew Kit Fah could not possibly have had any impact or influence on the Valuer’s decision. The Court reiterated that the majority and minority decisions in Liew Kit Fah did not assist the appellant’s submission: [37]–[40].
Whether the High Court had the jurisdiction or power to grant the Consent Order
11 The Court observed that the true issue concerned the power exercised by the High Court (ie, the High Court’s capacity to give effect to its determination in granting the orders or reliefs sought by the successful party to the dispute), and not its jurisdiction (ie, the authority, however derived, to hear and determine a dispute that is brought before it). It could not be denied that the High Court was clearly seised of jurisdiction pursuant to s 16(1) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (“the SCJA”) to hear the dispute in Suit 168. Thus, it was strictly incorrect for the appellant to argue that the High Court had no jurisdiction to grant the Consent Order: at [43]–[45].
12 The Court further observed that the proposition that the parties cannot by consent confer on the court a power which the court otherwise lacks could only gain traction in the present context if a share buy-out order could only be made via s 216(2)(d) of the Companies Act. In granting a consent order pursuant to a settlement between the parties, the court was clearly not purporting to grant any buy-out order under s 216(2)(d). The whole purpose of a court granting a consent order pursuant to a settlement was to avoid the court having to make a finding of minority oppression in the first place and to allow the parties to enforce the order in the event of non-compliance without having to institute a fresh action. It would be counter intuitive to require the court to make a finding of minority oppression, when that was exactly what parties were seeking to avoid: at [53]–[54].
13 The court must have the inherent power to grant consent orders, even where the consent order provided for one party to purchase the shares of the other, without a prior finding of minority oppression. There could not be any dispute that it was common for courts to grant consent orders or judgments in order to give effect to the parties’ settlement of disputes pursuant to its inherent jurisdiction. The Court observed that the court’s inherent powers existed precisely “to do justice between the parties” and it could not think of a more appropriate use of the court’s inherent powers than to assist the parties to resolve their dispute amicably by granting the consent order at the express request of the parties: at [55] and [58].
Other arguments
14 The Court held that the remaining arguments put forth by the appellant were plainly untenable. The Court rejected the appellant’s submission on mistake as there was simply no common mistake of law. There was no evidence that either party was of the mistaken belief that the share buy-out was made under s 216(2)(d) of the Companies Act. The appellant’s intention to abandon his minority oppression claim was clearly evidenced by the express language of the Consent Order, where all parties agreed to abandon all allegations against each other in their pleadings. Further, there was no common mistake as to the applicability of the lack of marketability discount. Had the parties truly held a contrary view on the applicability or non-applicability of the said discount, they would have expressly provided for it in the Consent Order. The alleged common mistake was thus an afterthought by the appellant and was his attempt to get out of a bad bargain after having sight of an unfavourable valuation report, despite having agreed to jointly appoint Nexia as an independent valuer. For the same reasons, the Court also rejected the appellant’s submission that it would be inequitable to enforce the Consent Order: at [61], [64]–[65]
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
