
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE20 September 2023Case summaryNewton David Christopher v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGHC XXGeneral Division of the High Court – Magistrate’s Appeal No 9091 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: The General Division of the High Court allows the appeal of an offender who had pleaded guilty to a single charge of cheating punishable under s 417 read with s 120B of the Penal Code 1871 (2020 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”) and reduces the sentence of 16 weeks’ imprisonment that was imposed by the District Judge (“DJ”) to 12 weeks’ imprisonment. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A party alleging judicial bias must be very clear as to whether his case is mounted on the basis of actual or apparent bias on the decision maker’s part. The two allegations differ in substance. An allegation of actual bias is an assertion that a judge had in fact been influenced by extraneous considerations in arriving at his decision and did so otherwise than based on the merits of the case. A claim of apparent bias is concerned with whether there are circumstances that would give rise to a reasonable suspicion or apprehension of bias in a fair-minded and informed observer: at [31].•  Where a court reproduces substantial portions of the written submissions of one side in its grounds of decision, it opens itself to the charge that it has failed to apply a judicious mind and has simply, and without sufficient consideration and discernment, adopted the submissions of one party. This in turn opens the court to a complaint of actual and/or apparent bias. Such a practice is especially unsatisfactory where the court has just reproduced or dealt with one side’s arguments and failed to engage with the submissions of the losing side. It leaves the losing party feeling that its case has not been fairly understood or considered. Aside from the question of bias, a court that engages in such unsatisfactory conduct also opens itself to the criticism of a lack of diligence: at [34]–[40].•  There is nothing inherently wrong or impermissible for a judge to come prepared with an outline or even a draft of a judgment or remarks accompanying a decision that the judge thinks he is likely to arrive at after hearing the oral arguments. The key and mandatory requirement is that the judge must keep an open mind until the moment the decision is pronounced: at [50].•  The incidence or likely incidence of harm as a result of a deception is an element of the offence of cheating. It is therefore essential that the court carefully examines and assesses the nature of harm occasioned by the offender, so that it may gain a proper appreciation of the severity of the offence: at [54]–[55].•  It is inherent in some offences such as cheating that the offender seeks some form of personal benefit or monetary recompense. In these cases, absent exceptional circumstances, it is not meaningful for the court to ascribe separate weight to the offender’s motivations for committing the offence: at [71].Background to the appeal 1 The appellant, Mr Newton David Christopher (“Mr Newton”) is a 44-year-old Australian male. Sometime around December 2021, Mr Newton became acquainted with Mr Chua Cheng Soon Thomas (“Mr Chua”). Mr Chua worked as a logistics supervisor for Dr Jipson Quah (“Dr Quah”).2 Mr Newton asked Mr Chua if he could arrange to falsely certify Mr Newton as having been vaccinated against COVID-19, and his wife, Ms Wonglangka Apinya (“Ms Apinya”) as being medically ineligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Mr Newton did not wish to be vaccinated, but he had a job offer in Australia and knew that he would face difficulties entering that country if he were unvaccinated.3 Mr Chua discussed Mr Newton’s request with Dr Quah on 27 and 28 December 2021. On Dr Quah’s instructions, Mr Chua arranged for Mr Newton and Ms Apinya to be injected at Dr Quah’s clinic. However, the injections would not use a COVID-19 vaccine. Instead, Mr Newton and Ms Apinya would be injected with a simple saline solution.4 On 29 December 2021, Mr Newton and Ms Apinya consulted Dr Quah. Dr Quah informed them that he would inject them with the Sinopharm vaccine. Mr Newton (but not Ms Apinya) knew this to be untrue. Dr Quah then injected Mr Newton and Ms Apinya with a saline solution, but recorded in his clinic’s medical records that they had both received their first dose of the Sinopharm vaccine. Dr Quah’s staff then submitted the medical records of Mr Newton and Ms Apinya to the National Immunisation Registry (“NIR”), which on 7 January 2022, duly reflected Mr Newton and Ms Apinya as having received their first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine.5 Further to Mr Newton’s request that a second dose of saline injections be administered, Mr Chua arranged for Mr Newton and Ms Apinya to consult Dr Quah on 15 January 2022. On this occasion, Dr Quah again falsely informed Mr Newton and Ms Apinya that he would be administering the Sinopharm vaccine to them, and proceeded to inject them with a saline solution. Ms Apinya remained unaware of the deception that had been practiced on her.6 Dr Quah then recorded in his clinic’s medical records that Mr Newton and Ms Apinya had each received their second dose of the Sinopharm vaccine. His staff sent both their vaccination records to the NIR. As a result, the NIR reflected both Mr Newton and Ms Apinya as having been fully vaccinated against COVID-19.7 In exchange for these services, Mr Newton paid Mr Chua $6,000. Mr Chua and Dr Quah split this sum between them.8 Mr Newton was subsequently charged with two offences under s 417 read with s 120B of the Penal Code on 17 March 2023. The first charge averred that he had engaged in a conspiracy with Dr Quah and Mr Chua to cheat the Health Promotion Board (“HPB”) into reflecting in the NIR that he had been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 when he had received only saline injections and was not vaccinated against COVID-19 at all (“First Charge”). The second charge, also under s 417 read with s 120B of the Penal Code, pertained to the conspiracy he engaged in with Dr Quah and Mr Chua to deceive Ms Apinya (“Second Charge”).Proceedings before the DJ9 As Mr Newton indicated that he wished to plead guilty to the charges, the matter was fixed for mention on 27 April 2023. The Prosecution and the Defence filed written submissions setting out their positions on sentence on 17 March 2023 and 6 April 2023 respectively. The Prosecution also filed a set of Reply Submissions dated 25 April 2023.10 On 27 April 2023, Mr Newton pleaded guilty to the First Charge and consented to the Second Charge being taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. 11 Immediately upon convicting Mr Newton, the DJ asked about charges to be taken into consideration for sentencing as well as antecedents and then said as follows: I have read both parties’ submission [sic] and I think they are quite comprehensive. I have prepared a grounds on decision [sic] but I don’t propose to read them but I’ll highlight to you what are the reasons for my sentence which I will impose on the accused.12 In response, counsel for Mr Newton, Mr Paul Loy Chi Syann (“Mr Loy”) indicated that he wished to make some oral submissions. The DJ allowed him to do so. The Prosecution then responded to Mr Loy’s oral submissions, after which the DJ made it clear that the oral submissions had not caused him to change his mind and he proceeded to sentence Mr Newton to 16 weeks’ imprisonment.13 The DJ furnished brief grounds for his decision. He explained why he thought public interest considerations called for a deterrent sentence and noted that Mr Newton’s offence disclosed various aggravating factors, including a degree of sophistication. He also rejected Mr Loy’s submission that mitigating weight should be placed on the fact that Mr Newton did not cause the HPB pecuniary loss, intended to leave Singapore for Australia in March 2022, and had offended out of concern for Ms Apinya.14 In his GD that was released later that same day, the DJ elaborated on these oral grounds. He explained that a custodial sentence was warranted in the interest of general deterrence, that Mr Newton’s offence disclosed several aggravating factors, that he derived some guidance from Public Prosecutor v Tan Jia Yan [2019] SGMC 60 (“Tan Jia Yan”) in arriving at the sentence of 16 weeks’ imprisonment, and that he did not think it relevant that Mr Newton had not caused the HPB to suffer pecuniary loss.The present appeal15 Mr Newton appealed against the DJ’s decision on sentence on two grounds. 16 His first contention was that the DJ’s decision ought to be set aside because a fair-minded and informed observer would reasonably apprehend that the DJ was biased against him. In support of this claim, Mr Loy pointed to the DJ having already prepared his GD before either side had made oral submissions on 27 April 2023. Furthermore, Mr Loy relies on the undisputed fact that the bulk of the DJ’s GD reproduced substantial portions of the Prosecution’s submissions. This extended to copying the cross-references in the Prosecution’s written submissions.17 Secondly, Mr Newton contended that the sentence imposed on him was manifestly excessive because the DJ placed excessive weight on certain aggravating factors and failed to attribute due weight to other mitigating factors.Issues to be determined 18 Two issues arose for this court’s determination. First, whether the DJ’s decision ought to be set aside on the basis of apparent bias. Secondly, whether the sentence imposed by the DJ is manifestly excessive: at [29].Decision of the courtApparent bias19 The assertion of apparent bias was eventually abandoned by Mr Loy at the hearing after the court invited him to consider certain points. Nevertheless, the court set out its view on the matter so that there is a clear understanding of a judge’s role and responsibility in these circumstances and also to explain whether and how this may give rise to a remedy in favour of an accused person: at [30].20 A party alleging judicial bias must be very clear as to whether the case is mounted on the basis of actual or apparent bias on the decision maker’s part. The two allegations differ in substance. An allegation of actual bias is an assertion that a judge had in fact been influenced by extraneous considerations in arriving at his decision and did so otherwise than based on the merits of the case. On the other hand, a claim of apparent bias is concerned with whether there are circumstances that would give rise to a reasonable suspicion or apprehension of bias in a fair-minded and informed observer: at [31].21 The test for apparent bias is objective and is applied from the perspective of an observer who is apprised of all relevant facts that are capable of being known by members of the public generally, and these include the “interactions between the court and counsel, and such facts of the case as could be gleaned from those interactions and/or known to the general public”: at [33].22 It was unsatisfactory that the DJ had reproduced the Prosecution’s written submissions in his GD. Where a court reproduces substantial portions of the submissions of one side, it opens itself to the charge that it has failed to apply a judicious mind and has simply, and without sufficient consideration and discernment, adopted the submissions of one party. This in turn opens the court to a complaint of actual and/or apparent bias. Such a practice is especially unsatisfactory where the court has just reproduced or dealt with one side’s arguments and failed to engage with the submissions of the losing side. It leaves the losing party feeling that its case has not been fairly understood or considered. Aside from the question of bias, a court that engages in such unsatisfactory conduct opens invites the criticism of a lack of diligence: at [34]–[40].23 The court regarded the DJ’s conduct as wholly unsatisfactory from the perspective of considering what would amount to acceptable judicial practice. In a sense, this was exacerbated in this case because the DJ came to the hearing apparently intending to pronounce the sentence he intended to impose without hearing oral submissions: at [41]–[42].24 But even so, the DJ’s substantial reproduction of the Prosecution’s written submissions in his GD is not sufficient in and of itself to establish a basis for setting aside his decision on the grounds of apparent bias, once regard is had to the totality of the circumstances: at [43].25 Whilst the DJ had reproduced almost the entirety, of the Prosecution’s written submissions in his GD, there were four additional points which were pertinent but which Mr Loy failed to consider. First, the parties had filed extensive written submissions prior to the hearing. Second, the parties would have anticipated that the DJ would have read and considered these submissions. Third, when the DJ intimated that he was ready to deliver his decision, Mr Loy at once informed the DJ that he wished to make some oral submissions. The DJ duly permitted Mr Loy to do so. And finally, there was an oral exchange between counsel and the DJ on 27 April 2023. These facts all formed an important part of the factual matrix that the fair-minded and informed observer would have considered in coming to a view on the question of apparent bias. The oral exchange is especially significant because it showed that the DJ had read and digested the case materials, had considered the merits of the parties’ respective submissions, and had come to a view on this. And, there is nothing to suggest that in doing so, he had not applied an independent judicial mind to bear on the materials and the dispute before him: at [44]–[45].26 On an objective consideration of all the material, the reasonable and fair-minded observer would have concluded that the DJ had strong views on the matter by the time he came to the hearing, as a result of his study and assessment of the written submissions; and that the DJ was not persuaded by what Mr Loy had to say. It would also have been obvious from what the DJ said during the oral arguments, why he was not persuaded by Mr Loy’s submissions. The observer would not conclude that the DJ had a closed mind and was not open to being persuaded otherwise: at [47].27 The court also placed some weight on the fact that the DJ had reorganised the Prosecution’s written submissions in his oral and written grounds and arranged these in a way that he thought would best substantiate his position on sentence. Whilst he may not have supplemented the Prosecution’s written submissions with his own thoughts, the fact that the DJ had synthesised the various arguments suggested that he had digested the material and thought about how these influenced his view of the issues: at [48].28 As for the fact that the DJ had already prepared his written grounds prior to the oral hearing, this has to be seen in the context of the DJ’s understanding of how the matter was to proceed. Moreover, there is nothing inherently wrong or impermissible for a judge to come prepared with an outline or even a draft of a judgment or remarks accompanying a decision that the judge thinks he is likely to arrive at after hearing the oral arguments. The key and mandatory requirement is that the judge must keep an open mind until the moment the decision is pronounced: at [50].The appropriate sentence to be imposed on Mr Newton29 Turning to the appropriate sentence to be imposed on Mr Newton, the court observed that the incidence or likely incidence of harm as a result of a deception is an element of the offence of cheating. The type of harm alleged to have been suffered by the HPB, namely, potential reputational harm arising from the fact that the vaccination records it maintained were inaccurate for a short period of time, is not the same as harm such as the loss of money or property that typifies the usual case of cheating. It is therefore essential that the court carefully examines and assesses the nature of harm occasioned by the offender, so that it may gain a proper appreciation of the severity of the offence: at [54]–[55].30 While the Prosecution had relied on Tan Jia Yan as a yardstick for the appropriate sentence to be imposed on Mr Newton, Tan Jia Yan was not a helpful precedent. The similarities between Tan Jia Yan and the present case suggested by the DJ were superficial at best and in any case, are cast at a high level of abstraction. The sentencing factors set out by the District Judge in Tan Jia Yan also provided little guidance on what the indicative sentence in a case like the present one might be, or how this indicative starting sentence may be derived. Aside from this, Mr Newton’s role in the conspiracy was not analogous to that of the teachers in Tan Jia Yan: at [56]–[61].31 Given the dearth of cases directly comparable to the present, and considering that the facts of the present case do not fall within any of the sentencing frameworks that have been laid down for certain types of the offence under s 417 of the Penal Code, the court considered it appropriate to assess the propriety of the sentence imposed on Mr Newton with reference to: (a) the maximum punishment of three years’ imprisonment carried by the First Charge; (b) the harm occasioned by the offence and the culpability of the accused; and (c) any other aggravating or mitigating factors: at [62].32 The court accepted that harm for the purpose of assessing the appropriate sentence may be broader than the type of harm that is sufficient to constitute the offence, and the public disquiet arising from Mr Newton’s offence and the fact that the victim of the offence was a public agency may be viewed as factors going towards the assessment of harm: at [63]–[64]. 33 Even so, the harm occasioned by Mr Newton did not rise above the higher end of “low”. The risk of the potential harm to HPB’s reputation eventuating was low. Furthermore, the element of public disquiet should not be overstated as the public would quite quickly have concluded that the safeguards in place were robust and would likely have taken heart that HPB’s systems had quickly exposed Mr Newton’s refusal to abide by his obligations: at [65]–[68].34 My Newton’s culpability fell within the middle range of “low”. The Prosecution relied on the following points to underscore Mr Newton’s culpability: that Mr Newton had (a) acted in a premeditated fashion and proceeded with the offence with some determination; (b) cheated his wife in the process; and (c) offended because he wished to take up a job offer in Australia: at [69]–[70].35 It is inherent in some offences such as cheating that the offender seeks some form of personal benefit or monetary recompense. In these cases, absent exceptional circumstances, it is not meaningful for the court to ascribe separate weight to the offender’s motivations for committing the offence. Mr Newton’s motivations were not exceptional: at [71].36 The remaining culpability factors were not so significant as to elevate Mr Newton’s culpability to a moderate or high level. The scheme of administering saline injections to patients and documenting instead that COVID-19 vaccines had been administered was entirely the brainchild of Mr Chua and Dr Quah. As for Mr Newton having deceived Ms Apinya, this formed the subject of the Second Charge taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing and the court considered this when deciding whether to make any adjustments to the indicative starting sentence: at [72].37 The court had regard to the harm-culpability matrix set out at [40] of Wong Tian Jun De Beers v Public Prosecutor [2022] 4 SLR 805 (“De Beers”) to obtain a sense of the appropriate indicative starting sentence in the present case. It made clear that by doing so, it was not purporting to lay down a sentencing framework for cases of cheating under s 417 of the Penal Code involving non-pecuniary loss, much less for all forms of cheating under that provision. Rather, the court considered the broad analytical approach adopted in De Beers to get a sense of how it should calibrate the sentence in the present case: at [73].38 An offence disclosing harm and culpability in the high and middle range of “low” respectively would attract an indicative starting sentence of around three months or approximately 12 weeks’ imprisonment: at [74].39 No further adjustments were made to this indicative starting sentence. This balanced the interest of general deterrence and the Second Charge that was taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing on one hand, and Mr Newton’s plea of guilt on the other: at [75].40 No weight was accorded to Mr Newton’s loss of job prospects, the fact that his plans to relocate to Australia were delayed by the investigations into his offences, or that he was unable to lease accommodation other than on a short-term basis because the authorities had cancelled his employment pass upon learning of his offences: at [76].41 In the circumstances, an appropriate sentence for the First Charge is a sentence of 12 weeks’ imprisonment. The sentence of 16 weeks’ imprisonment imposed by the DJ was therefore manifestly excessive, and the court set it aside and imposed in its place a sentence of 12 weeks’ imprisonment: at [77].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
