
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
19 October 2020
Case summary
Gobi a/l Avedian v Public Prosecutor [2020] SGCA 102
Criminal Motion No 3 of 2020
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):
Outcome: CoA allows criminal motion, setting aside applicant’s conviction on a capital drug trafficking charge and convicting him on a reduced non-capital charge of attempted importation.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:

The knowledge that is presumed under s 18(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) is confined to actual knowledge of the nature of the drugs in the accused person’s possession, and does not encompass knowledge of matters to which the accused person is said to be wilfully blind. The Prosecution is not permitted to invoke the s 18(2) presumption to presume that the accused person was wilfully blind to the nature of the drugs in his possession, and the doctrine of wilful blindness is irrelevant to the analysis of whether the s 18(2) presumption has been rebutted (at [56]). 
In order to establish that an accused person was wilfully blind to the nature of the drugs in his possession, the Prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that (at [79]): 

 (a) the accused person had a clear, grounded and targeted suspicion that what he was told or led to believe about the nature of the thing he was carrying was untrue; 
 (b) there were reasonable means of inquiry available to the accused person which, if taken, would have led him to discover the truth, namely, that his suspicion that he was carrying something other than what he was told the thing was or believed it to be was well founded; and
 (c) the accused person deliberately refused to pursue the reasonable means of inquiry available to him because he wanted to avoid any adverse consequences of being affixed with knowledge of the truth.
 Background to the criminal motion
1 The applicant, Gobi a/l Avedian (“the Applicant”), claimed trial to a capital charge under s 7 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”) of importing not less than 40.22g of diamorphine (“the Drugs”). 
2 At the time of the offence, the Applicant, a Malaysian citizen, lived in Johor Bahru and commuted to Singapore for work. Sometime in 2014, he approached his friend, “Guru”, for some suggestions as to a part-time job because he needed funds for his daughter’s operation. Guru introduced the Applicant to one “Vinod”, who told the Applicant that he could earn some money by delivering drugs to Singapore. Vinod further told the Applicant that the drugs involved were mixed with chocolate and were to be used in discos, that they were “ordinary” and “not serious”, and that if he was apprehended, he would receive “just a fine or a small punishment”. The Applicant initially refused Vinod’s offer because he was “scared” and thought that delivering drugs for Vinod would be a “problem”.
3 As the date of his daughter’s operation approached, the Applicant became “desperate” because he had not managed to raise enough money. He decided to consult another friend, “Jega”, about whether the drugs described by Vinod “would be a problem”. Jega informed him that such drugs were “not … very dangerous” and “should not be a problem”.
4 On the basis of the separate assurances he had received from Vinod and Jega, the Applicant decided to accept Vinod’s offer and proceeded to deliver drugs for Vinod on eight or nine occasions. On each occasion, the Applicant would collect the packets of drugs and wrap them as instructed by Vinod. In the course of doing so, the Applicant observed that the drugs did indeed look like they had been mixed with chocolate. On 11 December 2014, the Applicant was arrested with the Drugs at Woodlands Checkpoint.
Procedural history
 
5 At the Applicant’s trial, the sole issue was whether he had rebutted the presumption of knowledge of the nature of the drugs under s 18(2) of the MDA. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) held that the Applicant had rebutted the presumption and acquitted him of the capital charge under s 7 of the MDA (“the capital charge”). He convicted the Applicant of a reduced non-capital charge of attempting to import a Class C controlled drug (“the amended charge”) and sentenced him to 15 years’ imprisonment and ten strokes of the cane.
6 The Prosecution appealed by way of CA/CCA 20/2017 (“CCA 20/2017”) against the Judge’s decision. The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) allowed the appeal and convicted the Applicant of the capital charge, holding that the Judge erred in finding that the s 18(2) presumption had been rebutted. 
7 On 25 February 2020, the Applicant filed the present application in CA/CM 3/2020 (“CM 3/2020”) pursuant to s 394I of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“the CPC”) for the Court to review its decision in CCA 20/2017.
The Court's decision
The statutory framework under s 394J of the CPC
8 The Court held that under s 394J of the CPC, there were two stages to the court’s inquiry in an application to review an earlier decision in a concluded criminal appeal (at [23]): 
 (a) At the first stage, the court considered whether it should exercise its power of review to reopen the earlier decision. The legal test set out in s 394J(2) of the CPC was whether there was “sufficient material … on which the appellate court may conclude that there has been a miscarriage of justice”. This test comprised two elements: (i) the material put forward in the review application must be “sufficient”; and (ii) such material must reveal a potential “miscarriage of justice” (at [24]). 
 (b) If the court was satisfied that it should exercise its power of review, then at the second stage, it considered whether the conviction or sentence in the earlier decision could stand in the light of the material put forward in the review application (at [28]).
Whether CCA 20/2017 should be reopened
9 The Court was satisfied that CCA 20/2017 should be reopened. The Court’s decision in Adili Chibuike Ejike v Public Prosecutor [2019] 2 SLR 254 (“Adili”), which was handed down after CCA 20/2017 was decided, had restated the law pertaining to the interplay between the presumptions under s 18 of the MDA and the doctrine of wilful blindness in two relevant respects. First, it highlighted the need to keep the concepts of actual knowledge and wilful blindness “separate and distinct” (see Adili at [93]). Second, it held that the doctrine of wilful blindness was “a legal concept or construct” that involved “a question of mixed law and fact”, whereas the s 18 presumptions were “presumptions of fact” (see Adili at [66]). These holdings were expressly confined in Adili to the s 18(1) presumption of possession (at [45]).
10 The Applicant made the legal argument that the aforesaid holdings in Adili should apply to the s 18(2) presumption of knowledge and that the s 18(2) presumption should not encompass wilful blindness. The Applicant also made the legal argument that the Prosecution’s case at the trial was not one of actual knowledge, but, at most, one of wilful blindness, and, therefore, the Prosecution could not have invoked the s 18(2) presumption. The Court held that these legal arguments, which could not have been raised in CCA 20/2017 even with reasonable diligence because of the state of the law as it then stood, provided sufficient material on which it might be concluded that there had been a miscarriage of justice in CCA 20/2017 if the Court’s decision in that appeal was reconsidered in the light of the subsequent legal developments. Specifically, if the Court were to decide in CM 3/2020 that it should apply the principles laid down in Adili in relation to the doctrine of wilful blindness to the s 18(2) presumption and hold that wilful blindness was not encompassed within that presumption, and if it were to find that the Prosecution’s case at the trial was one of wilful blindness, then the Prosecution could not have invoked the s 18(2) presumption against the Applicant. On that basis, the decision in CCA 20/2017 could be considered to be demonstrably wrong in so far as the Court arrived at it on the ground that the Applicant had failed to rebut the s 18(2) presumption (at [44], [47] and [49]).
11 The Court highlighted that its assessment that the decision in CCA 20/2017 might be demonstrably wrong was not based on the arguments that were in fact made in CCA 20/2017 or that could have been made in view of the legal position as it was understood then. Rather, in the light of the Court’s subsequent decision in Adili, which did not directly address the issues that arose in CCA 20/2017 but which could so by way of analogous reasoning, there was a need to reconsider CCA 20/2017 and to assess whether the outcome in that appeal would still be the same despite the subsequent developments in the law. For these reasons, the Court was satisfied that it should exercise its power of review under s 394J of the CPC (at [49] and [50]).
The merits of the Applicant’s legal arguments in CM 3/2020
The s 18(2) presumption and the doctrine of wilful blindness
12 The Court agreed with the parties that the knowledge that was presumed under s 18(2) of the MDA was confined to actual knowledge of the nature of the drugs in the accused person’s possession and did not encompass knowledge of matters to which the accused person was said to be wilfully blind. The Prosecution was not permitted to invoke the s 18(2) presumption to presume that the accused person was wilfully blind to the nature of the drugs in his possession, and the doctrine of wilful blindness was therefore irrelevant to the analysis of whether the s 18(2) presumption had been rebutted (at [56]).
13 To rebut the s 18(2) presumption, the accused person was only required to establish that he did not know the nature of the drugs in his possession. In this regard, an assertion or finding of ignorance or indifference alone would not suffice (at [57], [64] and [65]).
14 In order to establish that an accused person was wilfully blind to the nature of the drugs in his possession, the Prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that (at [79]):
 (a) the accused person had a clear, grounded and targeted suspicion that what he was told or led to believe about the nature of the thing he was carrying was untrue; 
 (b) there were reasonable means of inquiry available to the accused person which, if taken, would have led him to discover the truth, namely, that his suspicion that he was carrying something other than what he was told the thing was or believed it to be was well founded; and
 (c) the accused person deliberately refused to pursue the reasonable means of inquiry available to him because he wanted to avoid any adverse consequences of being affixed with knowledge of the truth.
The Prosecution’s case in respect of the Applicant’s knowledge of the nature of the Drugs
15 The Court held that it did not follow from the parties’ and the Judge’s acceptance at the trial that the s 18(2) presumption was relied on and had to be rebutted that the Prosecution’s case must have been one of actual knowledge. This was because the legal position then was that the s 18(2) presumption encompassed the doctrine of wilful blindness, and the parties did not have the benefit of the guidance subsequently set out in Adili. The Prosecution might thus have formulated its case at the trial on the premise that actual knowledge and wilful blindness were not distinct concepts, and that the doctrine of wilful blindness was relevant in considering whether the s 18(2) presumption had been rebutted. The Court had now held that this was incorrect, and that wilful blindness was irrelevant in the context of the s 18(2) presumption. Accordingly, the Prosecution’s case at the trial should now be assessed in that light (at [105] and [110]).
16 Having reviewed the questions that the Prosecution put to the Applicant during cross-examination as well as the Prosecution’s opening address, closing submissions and reply submissions at the trial, the Court was satisfied that the Prosecution’s case was not one of actual knowledge, but one of wilful blindness to the nature of the Drugs. In putting to the Applicant that he “had no reason to trust Vinod when [Vinod] told [him] that the drugs [he was] bringing in were only chocolate drugs” [emphasis added], the Prosecution seemed to implicitly accept that the Applicant did believe Vinod’s representations as to the nature of the Drugs, although (as the Prosecution saw it) he should not have done so. The Prosecution also failed to put to the Applicant that he did not in fact believe what Vinod and Jega had told him about the nature of the Drugs. In addition, when the Judge asked the Prosecution to clarify its case, the Prosecution stated that its position was not that the Applicant disbelieved Vinod and Jega, but that, objectively speaking, he had no reason to believe them (at [105], [107], [109] and [115]).
17 In contrast to its case at the trial, the Prosecution’s case on appeal was one of actual knowledge, premised on the contention that the Applicant did not in fact believe Vinod’s and Jega’s assurances as to the nature of the Drugs. The Court held that this change in the Prosecution’s case was ultimately prejudicial to the Applicant because he was never squarely confronted with the case that he did not in fact believe what he had been told by Vinod and Jega, and so could not have responded to such a case. Moreover, given that the Prosecution’s case at the trial was one of wilful blindness and not actual knowledge, recourse to the s 18(2) presumption was foreclosed to the Prosecution (at [117], [120] and [121]).
The Applicant’s conviction in CCA 20/2017 and consequential orders 
18 The Court held that in so far as its decision on conviction in CCA 20/2017 was premised on the Applicant’s failure to rebut the s 18(2) presumption, that could no longer form the basis of his conviction on the capital charge. The Court thus considered whether the Applicant was wilfully blind to the nature of the Drugs such that his conviction on the capital charge remained safe (at [121]). 
19 The Court held that the first element of wilful blindness relating to suspicion was not made out. The Applicant had made certain inquiries into the nature of the Drugs. On the basis of the separate assurances he had received from Vinod and Jega, he was led to believe that the Drugs were “not serious” and “not … very dangerous”. This description of the Drugs did not objectively correspond to diamorphine, and there was no evidence to suggest that the Applicant subjectively understood the Drugs to be diamorphine. The Applicant had also inspected the Drugs and had observed that they looked like they had been mixed with chocolate. Given that the Prosecution did not establish or even suggest that the Applicant in fact disbelieved what he had been told about the nature of the Drugs or suspected that what he had been told was untrue, his failure to make further inquiries amounted, at its highest, to negligence or recklessness. This was insufficient to constitute the mens rea of the capital charge. The Court therefore set aside the Applicant’s conviction on the capital charge (at [124] and [125]).
20 The Court highlighted that this outcome was the result of the coming together of the following three circumstances, and that if any of these three circumstances had been absent, the outcome might well have been different (at [125] and [126]):
 (a) first, the nature of the Prosecution’s case at the trial, which was that the Applicant was wilfully blind to the nature of the Drugs, and not that he had actual knowledge of their nature;
 (b) second, the different case that the Prosecution ran on appeal, namely, that the Applicant had actual knowledge of the nature of the Drugs, a difference that was not pointed out by the Defence in the course of the appeal and that was likely not thought to be material by either the Prosecution or the Defence at that time, given the prevailing legal position then; and 
 (c) third, the change in the legal position in respect of the doctrine of wilful blindness that was effected by the Court in Adili after CCA 20/2017 was decided, and that the Court had now decided should apply to the interplay between the s 18(2) presumption and the doctrine of wilful blindness and, specifically, the question of the Applicant’s knowledge of the nature of the Drugs. 
21 The Court reinstated the Applicant’s conviction on the amended charge as the parties had agreed that it should be reinstated if his conviction on the capital charge were set aside, and, in any case, there were no grounds for refusing to reinstate the conviction on the amended charge. On the Applicant’s own case, he knew that the Drugs were illegal and would attract penal consequences. Convicting the Applicant of the amended charge was the option that was both consonant with the admitted illegality of his actions and least prejudicial to him. The Court also reinstated the sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment and ten strokes of the cane that the Judge imposed in respect of the amended charge, and backdated the sentence to the date of the Applicant’s remand (at [127] to [130] and [133]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
