

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


17 September 2020


Case summary


Ilechukwu Uchechukwu Chukwudi v Public Prosecutor 
[2020] SGCA 90



Criminal Motion No 4 of 2017


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Decision of the majority of the Court of Appeal comprising
Sundaresh Menon CJ, Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA, Judith Prakash JA
and Chao Hick Tin SJ (delivered by Chao Hick Tin SJ):


Outcome: CoA by 4:1 majority sets aside its previous conviction of
Ilechukwu Uchechukwu Chukwudi on a drug trafficking charge.





Pertinent and significant points of the decision:


The court’s power to draw adverse inferences, whether from lies or
omissions, is a discretionary one based on the specific facts and all the
evidence in each case: at [151]-[156].


Background to the application


1 Ilechukwu Uchechukwu Chukwudi (“the Applicant”) was charged under s 5(1)(    a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”), with
trafficking of not less than 1,963.3g of methamphetamine found in a black
luggage (“the Black Luggage”) which he had brought from Nigeria into
Singapore and had handed over to one Hamidah Binte Awang (“Hamidah”) on 13
November 2011.


2 In 2015, at the end of a joint trial of the Applicant and Hamidah, the
High Court judge (the “Judge”) acquitted the Applicant. The Prosecution
appealed against the Judge’s decision acquitting the Applicant. The Court
of Appeal reversed the acquittal and convicted the Applicant on the
trafficking charge in    Public Prosecutor v Ilechukwu Uchechukwu Chukwudi [2015] SGCA 33
(“CA (Conviction)”). Critically, what tipped the scales in the
appeal were the numerous lies and omissions made by the Applicant in his
statements to the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB), for which there did not
appear at the time to be any innocent explanation. For instance, in his
oral evidence at trial, the Applicant claimed that one “Kingsley”,
introduced to him by a friend of his, “Izuchukwu”, had told him to pass the
Black Luggage to a contact in Singapore.


3 Following the decision in CA (Conviction), when the matter was
remitted to the Judge for sentencing, fresh and material evidence came to
light that the Applicant suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder
(“PTSD”) with dissociative symptoms. This evidence arose from the
examination of the Applicant by Dr Jaydip Sarkar, a psychiatrist with the
Institute of Mental Health (IMH), who was slated to be the Prosecution’s
witness. According to Dr Sarkar, the Applicant’s PTSD arose as a result of
a childhood trauma in his hometown in Wukari, Nigeria, when the Applicant
was nearly killed and had witnessed the killing of others.


4 In Dr Sarkar’s opinion, the Applicant’s PTSD symptoms were triggered
after he was informed that he was facing the death penalty associated with
the trafficking charge, and this condition might have resulted in an
“overestimation of threat to his life which could have prompted him to
utter unsophisticated and blatant falsehoods in order to save his life”.
For this reason, the Court of Appeal in 2017 granted the criminal motion
filed by the Applicant to reopen its earlier conviction. No finding was
made by the Court of Appeal as to Dr Sarkar’s assessment of the Applicant.
The matter was remitted to the Judge for him to receive further expert
evidence on PTSD based on the terms of reference issued by the Court of
Appeal.


5 The Judge made three main findings in    Public Prosecutor v Hamidah Binte Awang and another [2019] SGHC
161 (“HC (Remitted)”) in the light of the expert evidence adduced
at the remitted hearing:


(a) The Applicant suffered from PTSD as a child after witnessing the Wukari
massacre when he was about five years old and continued to suffer from it
until some indefinite time before he arrived in Singapore on 13 November
2011.


(b) However, the Applicant was not suffering from PTSD after his arrest on
14 November 2011 when the various statements were taken. This was because
neither the arrest nor the Applicant being informed that the charge
attracted the death penalty was sufficient to constitute a traumatic event.


(c) The Applicant suffered from various post-traumatic stress symptoms
(“PTSS”) during the statement-taking process.


The majority’s decision


6 The central question in this application is whether the decision in    CA (Conviction) is in fact demonstrably wrong. This
entailed an examination of the following questions (at    [50] and [52]):


(a) Was the Judge correct to find that the Applicant suffered from PTSD
during his childhood?


(b) Was the Judge correct to find that the Applicant did not experience a
traumatic event in 2011 for the purpose of Criterion A of the DSM-5 PTSD
Criteria?


(c) Was the Judge correct to find that the Applicant suffered from PTSS in
2011 and if so, how were they connected to his lies and omissions?


7 On the evidence it was clear that the Applicant suffered from PTSD during
his childhood as a result of the Wukari incident: at [61]-    [65].


8 The majority of the Court of Appeal also found that the Applicant’s
arrest and his being informed of the death penalty associated with the
trafficking charge each constituted a traumatic event in the circumstances.
This is attributable to the sensitisation effect, which all the expert
witnesses agreed was operating on the Applicant. This sensitisation effect
essentially meant that since the Applicant was found to have suffered from
PTSD as a child, he was at a higher risk of developing PTSD subsequently.
The finding that the two events were traumatic is also borne out by the
Applicant’s testimony given at the first-instance trial in 2014, long
before any issue relating to the Applicant’s PTSD was raised: at    [82]-[124].


9 The majority agreed with the Judge that the Applicant suffered from
various PTSS during the recording of his statements to the CNB: at    [126]-[134].


10 Contrary to the Judge’s findings, there was a credible connection
between the Applicant’s condition in 2011 and his lies and omissions in his
statements. As the majority of the expert witnesses testified, the
Applicant’s condition led to an overestimation of the threat to his life
which could have prompted him to utter unsophisticated and blatant
falsehoods to save his own life. In other words, the PTSS caused the
Applicant to harbour irrational or illogical notions of his circumstances
including that he was in danger even though he might have been innocent.
These misconceived conceptions in turn supplied a plausible explanation for
his lies because, conceivably, the Applicant was eager to save his own life
and foolishly thought that by telling lies this objective could be
achieved. While an ordinary person without similar psychiatric ailments
like the Applicant may also experience fear under the same circumstances,
the present case is fundamentally different because the Applicant’s
response was not simply a case of difference in the degree of fear
experienced but rested on an epistemically distinct basis – that is, a
gross misapprehension of the situation brought about by his history of PTSD
and his PTSS: at [138]-[146].


11 In respect of the decision in CA (Conviction), the Court of
Appeal had drawn adverse inferences against the Applicant as a result of
his numerous lies and omissions, for which there was no innocent
explanation. In the light of the fresh evidence and findings above, it
cannot be said with any reasonable degree of confidence that the
Applicant’s lies and omissions were only attributable to a realisation of
his guilt. It follows that no adverse inference can now be drawn against
the Applicant in this regard. Consequently, it is also no longer
appropriate to rely on the Applicant’s lies and omissions to impugn his
creditworthiness: at [157]-[168].


12 Since no weight can be given to the Applicant’s lies and omissions, the
majority found that on the remaining evidence, the Applicant had rebutted
the presumption of possession under s 18(1) of the MDA on the balance of
probabilities. As the Judge had found in his first-instance acquittal
decision, the totality of the circumstances, including the Applicant’s
conduct and demeanour around the time of the alleged offence, was more
consistent with a lack of knowledge on his part of the drugs in the Black
Luggage: at [171]-[181].


13 Therefore, the decision in CA (Conviction) is demonstrably
wrong in the light of the fresh evidence, which arose out of exceptional
circumstances, ie, an opinion proffered by the Prosecution’s
psychiatrist instead of the Applicant’s own appointed psychiatrist. The
Court of Appeal’s conviction in 2015 is hereby set aside. 
Accordingly, the majority affirmed the order of the High Court acquitting
the Applicant of the trafficking charge: at [182]-    [184].



Decision of the minority of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Tay Yong
Kwang JA):



14 The central question was whether the motive for the Applicant’s lies was
his realisation of guilt and fear of the truth: at [232].
Proceeding on the basis of the Judge’s findings of PTSS at the various
points in time, the many lies told by the Applicant in his statements were
found to be Lucas lies (ie, lies which could be used as
corroborative evidence of guilt). These pointed clearly and cogently to his
guilty mind concerning the drugs concealed in the Black Luggage: at    [230] and [273].


15 In the statement recorded from him approximately two hours after his
arrest (“the First Statement”), the Applicant consciously and deliberately
lied when he claimed that he had only brought one luggage, namely, a laptop
bag into Singapore and further lied in court to explain away the lie in the
First Statement: at [248]-[254]. The
Judge rightly did not accept the Applicant’s submissions on how his
“intense psychological distress” caused him to lie. If he had been
frightened and shocked when his room was raided suddenly by the officers,
he could have explained at the trial that he had lied in the First
Statement because he had been so overwhelmed by the officers’ actions that
they evoked in his mind the Wukari incident: at [251] and    [252]. It was implausible, given his allegedly naïve trust
in Izuchukwu and Kingsley, that his first thoughts after arrest would have
been that there was something illegal about the Black Luggage and therefore
that the only safe course was for him to lie and deny any connection with
it when questioned by law enforcement officers: at [253]
.The edifice of lies was such that the experts’ evidence, to the limited
extent they addressed the link between intense psychological distress and
lying on the facts of the present case, should be viewed with
circumspection. This distress did not provide an innocent explanation for
the lie in the First Statement: at [256].


16 In the cautioned statement recorded from the Applicant (“the Cautioned
Statement”), the Applicant claimed he had not given “anything to anybody”,
among other lies: at [257]. The reasons the Applicant gave
for the lies were rejected. For example, contrary to Dr Sarkar’s assertion
that the Applicant had been focused on protecting himself, the Applicant
had told Dr Christopher Cheok that when the charge was read to him, he made
up his mind to tell the truth and he only changed his mind thereafter.
Further, if he had indeed thought that the death penalty was a certainty as
he claimed, it was unclear how lying could have provided any protection. He
had also been warned before the statement was recorded that it might be
better for him to mention any facts in his defence: at    [260] and [261]. Despite his claim that
he had been confused, it was clear the Applicant had been able to
distinguish between facts that would have linked him to the Black Luggage
and facts which were quite innocuous: at [263]. The
persistent efforts to say nothing about the Black Luggage or that he had
met someone in Singapore were very telling and pointed clearly to a guilty
mind which was acutely aware of the drugs in the Black Luggage: at    [262].


17 The Applicant also told several untruths in the statements recorded from
him some seven to ten days after his arrest (“the Long Statements”), which
were again calculated to avoid any reference to the Black Luggage or
individuals that would have connected him to it: at [264].
The various PTSS suffered by the Applicant did not provide an explanation
for the lies and omissions: at [269] and    [270]. Even if the Applicant did not trust the
investigating officer, it was illogical for this to have resulted in his
persistent efforts to dissociate himself from the Black Luggage especially
if he did not know at the time that the charge was linked to it and after
he had been cautioned that he should not hold back anything in stating his
defence. It was not sheer coincidence that the individuals the Applicant
falsely denied knowing were also subsequently arrested for drug offences
involving methamphetamine: at [270] and    [271]. It would have been evident by the time of the Long
Statements that he was in the hands of law enforcement officers and not in
a situation or place which remotely resembled the circumstances of the
Wukari massacre. Any fear or anxiety he felt then would have been
reasonably expected of anyone in remand for a serious offence: at    [272].


18 Even if the lies and omissions were not corroborative evidence of the
Applicant’s guilt, he would not have rebutted the presumption in s 18(1)
MDA. The Applicant told many deliberate lies on highly material issues on
separate occasions and continued to lie both in the 2014 trial and the
remitted hearing, despite the lack of evidence that he was suffering from
PTSD or PTSS during the two hearings. As such, any PTSD or PTSS would not
have provided a remotely satisfactory answer to the edifice of lies
constructed by the Applicant: at [273]. His defence was in
the final analysis a highly unlikely account from a totally unreliable and
untruthful source: at [274]. The defence was a case of
hypothesis built upon hypothesis built upon hypothesis in order to try to
explain away a continuous and consistent stream of very focused lies: at    [275]. The Prosecution’s case had been proved beyond
reasonable doubt and the application to set aside the Applicant’s
conviction should be dismissed: at [276].



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


