
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
20 August 2020
Case summary
China Coal Solution (Singapore) Pte Ltd v Avra Commodities Pte Ltd [2020] SGCA 81
Civil Appeal No 83 of 2019

 

Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith Prakash):
Outcome: Court of Appeal allows appellant’s appeal, finding that parties did not enter into a contract on the basis of their exchange of four e-mails. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment
Whether a binding contract has come into existence between the parties is highly fact-specific. A party who has insisted upon the application of its standard terms will not easily be allowed to resile from those terms by alleging that the “subject to execution” clause therein does not apply: at [2], [32] and [33].  
Background to the dispute 
1 The appellant (“China Coal”) and the respondent (“Avra”) were companies involved in commodity trading. They began transacting with each other in 2015. The present dispute arose out of attempts to enter into one such transaction in March to April 2017, involving three shipments of Indonesian steam coal (“the Cargo”).
2 On 29 March 2017, Avra and China Coal exchanged four e-mails in which they agreed on quantity, quality, price, laycan and type of vessel to be deployed (“the “First Four E-mails”). Avra then sent China Coal a draft contract on its standard terms (the “Draft Contract”). Amongst other terms, the Draft Contract contained terms reflecting the matters agreed on in the First Four E-mails. It also contained an entire agreement clause with “subject-to-signature” and “Buyer’s nomination” provisos (“cl 26”). 
3 On 6 April 2017, China Coal proposed amendments to the Draft Contract, though it did not revisit cl 26 or any of the matters agreed on in the First Four E-mails. Avra rejected most of China Coal’s proposed amendments, reiterating that these were either “non-negotiable terms from [the] shipper” or “standard terms as accepted in business confirmation and previous contracts”. This exchange concluded with Avra executing the final draft of the Draft Contract on 18 April 2017 and asking China Coal to do the same. China Coal failed to do so and, on 4 May 2017, e-mailed Avra seeking to “carry out only one cargo … and cancel other two cargoes” [sic]. On 29 May 2017, Avra’s lawyers wrote to China Coal purporting to formally terminate the contract on the basis of the latter’s “material breaches” or “anticipatory repudiatory and/or repudiatory breach” of contract. 
4 Before the transaction giving rise to the present dispute, China Coal and Avra had transacted with each other on three previous occasions in September 2015, July 2016 and March 2017. All their dealings proceeded similarly, in that: (a) Avra would e-mail China Coal to propose key terms; (b) China Coal would respond with a counter-proposal; (c) the parties would reach agreement in their “business confirmation emails”, and (d) Avra would e-mail to China Coal a draft contract in its own standard form for comment and approval. Parties signed draft contracts in respect of only the July 2016 and March 2017 transactions, which were duly carried out. In respect of the September 2015 dealing, the parties’ positions were reversed – it was Avra who failed to execute the draft formal contract and China Coal who insisted that the parties had nevertheless entered into a concluded contract, though China Coal did not follow up with any legal action against Avra. 
Decision below and issues on appeal
5 Avra sued China Coal for breach of contract. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) held that the parties had entered into a contract for the sale and purchase of coal on the basis of the First Four E-mails. The parties had intended to create legal relations on those e-mails alone, and the contractual terms were sufficiently certain and complete. The Judge then found China Coal liable for about US$1.6m in damages and interest. China Coal appealed only in respect of the Judge’s decision on liability. 
6 The issues on appeal were: (a) whether (and if so, when) a contract came into existence between China Coal and Avra; and (b) whether that contract was unenforceable due to uncertainty or incompleteness. 
The Court of Appeal’s decision
7 The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal, finding that the parties had not intended to create legal relations on the basis of the First Four E-mails alone: at [27].
8 First, the wording of cl 26 was significant in that it included provisos that the Draft Contract “shall only come into force after being signed by both the Buyer and the Seller”, and, as an alternative, that “the Buyer’s nomination of a performing vessel shall signify binding acceptance of all the terms … even if the Buyer has not executed this Agreement”. This clause made clear that parties intended to be bound only if one of these two exclusive situations in which the contract would come into existence arose: at [28] and [29].
9 Second, cl 26 was contained in Avra’s standard terms, which Avra had insisted upon. As the correspondence demonstrated, Avra staunchly refused to exercise any flexibility in modifying most of these terms despite China Coal’s requests to that effect. Having insisted on the terms of the formal contract, it did not lie in Avra’s mouth to now allege that China Coal could not hold it to cl 26, which was part of the package of terms it initially refused to depart from: at [32] and [33].
10 Third, in relation to the position taken by China Coal in its e-mail of 4 May 2017, this was better characterised as reflecting its wish to maintain a cordial working relationship with Avra. In any event, it was not the subjective view of a party that prevailed but the intention of the parties viewed objectively: at [34]. 
11 Fourth, in relation to the September 2015 dealing, Avra no doubt did not expressly allege that the exchange of e-mails was not binding without the execution of a formal contract. However, it did not perform. Nor did China Coal take any follow-up action. Parties appeared to have preferred to let sleeping dogs lie, save for keeping alive the possibility of a quid pro quo in future transactions should their positions be reversed: at [35]. 
12 Accordingly, the Court held that parties had not entered into a binding contract, and allowed the appeal. 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
