
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE13 September 2023Case summaryLim Chang Huat v Stronghold Global Holdings Limited [2023] SGCA(I) 6Court of Appeal / Civil Appeal No 5 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Steven Chong JCA, Belinda Ang Saw Ean JCA and Arjan Kumar Sikri IJ (delivered by Justice Chong):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses the appeal against the decision of the International Judge that the appellant had breached a share purchase agreement he had entered into with the respondent.Background 1 On 30 June 2017, the appellant, Mr Lim Chang Huat (“Mr Lim”), agreed to sell to the respondent (“Stronghold”) his shares in NEP Holdings (Malaysia) Berhad (“NEP Holdings”) which is the parent company of several subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “NEP Group”). 2 The consummation of the share purchase agreement (“SPA”) was conditioned on the following obligations: a. the satisfaction of Stronghold with the results of its due diligence on the NEP Group (section 6.02(d) of the SPA); and b. pursuant to this due diligence process, Mr Lim was obliged to deliver to Stronghold the audited financial statements of the NEP Group for the financial year ending 30 June 2016 (“FY16”) and the consolidated management accounts of the NEP Group from 1 July 2016 to 31 May 2017 (“11M17”) (see section 6.02(f) of the SPA). Mr Lim was also obliged to provide to Stronghold “reasonable access … to the offices, properties and books and records of the [NEP] Group, … and operating data and any other information relating to the [NEP Group] as [Stronghold and its representatives] may reasonably request” (section 5.02 of the SPA), and covenanted to take “commercially reasonable efforts” to consummate the transaction (section 5.03 of the SPA).3 Before the International Judge (“Judge”), Stronghold claimed that Mr Lim and/or his representatives had failed to provide the financial documents it had requested either through the employees of its parent company (referred to as “Ozner”), or by the professional auditors Stronghold had engaged, Ernst & Young (China) Advisory Limited (“EY”). Stronghold also alleged that Mr Lim failed to meet the requests made by EY and Ozner for interviews with the management teams of the NEP Group, and the inspection of NEP Holding’s commission calculating system (ie, items that went beyond the scope of section 6.02(f) of the SPA) were not met. The Judge found that Mr Lim failed to fulfil these requests in breach of sections 5.02, 5.03, 6.02(d) and 6.02(f) of the SPA, and that Stronghold was therefore entitled to terminate the SPA. 4 In the present appeal, Mr Lim makes five principal points. a. First, he submits that the Judge had erred in failing to consider the laws of Malaysia, which was the governing law of the SPA under section 10.05 of the SPA. b. Secondly, he avers that the Judge’s decision to admit (a) a note provided by one Mr Runald Li of EY to Ms Violet Wei of Ozner dated 1 August 2018, which set out the challenges faced by EY in conducting its due diligence on the NEP Group (the “EY Note”); and (b) a host of e-mails sent by the representatives of EY and/or Ozner which recorded their requests for financial statements and documents from personnel of the NEP Group (the “E-mail Correspondence”) under ss 32(1)(b) and 32(1)(j) of the Evidence Act 1893 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “EA”) was wrong and prejudicial. c. Thirdly, he submits that: (a) he had delivered the FY16 audited financial statements of all companies within the NEP Group to either Ozner or EY; (b) provided the consolidated management accounts of the NEP Group for 11M17, and if not, that the data already provided, when put together, comprised such consolidated management accounts; and (c) that EY and Ozner representatives were allowed and did in fact visit NEP Holdings’ office in Malaysia for interviews from 10 May 2017 to 2 June 2017. d. Fourthly, that Stronghold had repudiated the SPA either during a meeting on 28 December 2017, where one Mr Xiao Shu (“Mr Xiao”) of Stronghold proposed to Mr Lim revised timelines for his submission of the requisite financial documents (the “28 December 2017 Meeting”), or on the following day by sending to Mr Lim an “Advancement Plan” which reflected those revised timelines. This repudiatory act meant that Stronghold was not entitled to terminate the SPA under the relevant subsections of section 8.01.e. Mr Lim’s fifth submission is that he was not obliged to return a RM5 million deposit (the “Deposit”) that Stronghold had paid to Mr Xiao by reason of a private arrangement between him and Mr Xiao. The Court’s Judgment Malaysian law5 It was not disputed that Mr Lim had failed to plead and prove foreign law as an issue of fact. Further, Mr Lim had previously agreed in a Case Management Conference that he would not be adducing evidence on Malaysian law which explained why Mr Lim’s counsel confirmed below that the parties were content for Malaysian law to be treated as the same as Singapore law for the purpose of these proceedings. In any event, while Mr Lim sought to rely on two Malaysian decisions to argue that the position in Malaysia was different, these Malaysian decisions did not represent the propositions advanced: at [6]–[10].The admissibility of evidence6 The court agreed with the Judge’s analysis of ss 32(1)(b) and 32(1)(j) of the EA and his consequent decision to admit the impugned evidence. Contrary to Mr Lim’s submission, the evidence appeared to be wholly reliable and of great probative value. The impugned evidence chiefly comprised communications as to whether certain financial documents had in fact been provided by NEP Holdings. Of particular significance was an email dated 28 December 2017 from EY to two representatives of NEP Holdings (the “28 December 2017 e-mail”) which the Judge found provided a true and accurate record of the documents that remained outstanding: at [12]–[14].Breach of the SPA7 There was no reason to disturb the Judge’s findings that Mr Lim had not fulfilled his obligations under the SPA. Much of the evidence considered by the Judge comprised objective, contemporaneous and probative business records that plainly spelt out the financial documents which remained outstanding. None of the documents relied on by Mr Lim undermined the Judge’s finding. It was also telling that at no time did Mr Lim or any representative of NEP Holdings dispute the content of the 28 December 2017 e-mail: at [16]–[22].Repudiation8 Mr Lim’s case below was that Stronghold’s Termination Notice dated 30 September 2018 was a repudiation of the SPA and amounted to a wrongful termination of the same. On appeal, Mr Lim instead submitted that Stronghold had repudiated the SPA at an earlier date: either at the 28 December 2017 meeting, or by way of the Advancement Plan sent a day after on 29 December 2017. The court found that there were a number of difficulties with this new argument. For one, the new claim was not pleaded, with the consequence that neither party led evidence on whether the discussions at the 28 December 2017 meeting or the contents of the Advancement Plan were repudiatory in the circumstances: at [24].9 Further, it was obvious to all that the SPA could not be completed by the End Date of 31 December 2017 at the point when the 28 December 2017 Meeting took place. It was in that context that the proposals at the 28 December 2017 Meeting and as captured in the Advancement Plan were advanced with a view to “come up with [Stronghold’s] proposed next steps”. However, it is not disputed that there was no reply from Mr Lim and his representatives to the proposals. When the events surrounding the End Date are seen in this light, it is clear that no reasonable person would have concluded that Stronghold no longer intended to be bound by the provisions of the SPA: at [25].The Deposit10 Mr Lim’s case was that he and Mr Xiao had a private arrangement in August 2017 such that Mr Lim did not need to return the Deposit. There was, however, no evidence to support this alleged private arrangement. Apart from the fact that the alleged private arrangement was only raised closed to three years after the filing of his initial defence, Mr Lim’s defence was also entirely contradicted by section 2.01(b) of the SPA which expressly provided that the sum of RM29.682m was to be paid “less the amount of the Deposit”: at [26]–[28].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
