
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
14 August 2020
Case summary
Civil Appeal No 226 of 2019, Civil Appeal No 228 of 2019 and Summons No 64 of 2020
Lim Suk Ling Priscilla and another v Amber Compounding Pharmacy Pte Ltd and another and another appeal and another matter [2020] SGCA 76
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):
Outcome: Court of Appeal holds that a multifactorial balancing exercise is to be adopted in determining whether a party ought to be released from its Riddick undertaking. Applying the balancing approach, no leave is granted to disclose certain documents obtained pursuant to a search order to the authorities for criminal investigation purposes. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

In determining whether a party ought to be released from its Riddick undertaking, the conjunctive two-step test in Beckkett Pte Ltd v Deutsche Bank AG [2005] 3 SLR(R) 555 ought not to be applied. Instead, a multifactorial balancing exercise is to be adopted: at [60]–[68] and [71]–[72].
 

Search orders ought to be targetted and specific in their reach, and the breadth of search orders should be carefully calibrated to meet the needs of the discovering party only, and no further. To this end, broad guidelines are provided for litigants and judges: at [120] and [123].

Facts
1 Amber Compounding Pharmacy Pte Ltd and Amber Laboratories Pte Ltd (collectively, “Amber”) commenced an action against Lim Suk Ling Priscilla (“Lim”) and UrbanRx Compounding Pharmacy Pte Ltd (“UrbanRx”) (collectively, “the defendants”) claiming, among other things, that the defendants had misappropriated Amber’s confidential information and trade secrets for the purposes of benefitting UrbanRx’s business.
The search orders
2 To support its claim, Amber applied for and obtained search orders against the defendants. In the search orders, Amber also gave the express undertaking “[n]ot, without the leave of the Court, … to use any information or documents obtained as a result of the carrying out of this Order except for the purposes of these proceedings …”. 
3 The search orders were then executed in the presence of Lim and a supervising solicitor. More than 100,000 documents were seized by Amber pursuant to the search orders. 
The setting-aside application and Listing Exercise
4 About a month after the execution of the search orders, the defendants applied to set aside the search orders, arguing among others that the ambit of the search orders was too wide, as it gave Amber “carte blanche to all documents belonging/relating” to the defendants.
5 The Judge did not deal directly with the setting-aside application. Instead, on the back of the solicitors’ undertakings that the seized documents would not be released to any other parties, and that the documents would be returned to their rightful owners, the Judge directed the parties to carry out a “Listing Exercise”. 
6 Under the Listing Exercise, Amber was to employ search terms to determine the ownership of the seized documents. Thereafter, all documents which indubitably belonged to Amber or the defendants were to be returned to their respective owners and deleted/destroyed by the other party, who was not to keep the documents in any form. If the ownership of any of the documents was disputed, such disputed documents would be returned to the defendants’ counsel only, and were not to be kept in any form by the plaintiffs. 
The leave application
7 As it transpired, while Amber was conducting the Listing Exercise, it had apparently formed the view that certain documents (“the Documents”) were probative of various criminal offences, including offences under the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act (Cap 91A, 2009 Rev Ed) (“the EFMA offences”), and an incident whereby staple bullets were found in Amber’s pharmaceutical products (“the staple saga”).
8 Spurred by the view that “serious criminal offences” had been committed by the defendants, and allegedly out of civic-mindedness, Amber’s representative made reports to the Singapore Police Force, Ministry of Manpower, and the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau (collectively, “the authorities”), disclosing ten of the Documents or excerpts of them in the process. These reports were allegedly made in the third quarter of 2018, without prior leave of court. 
9 After the reports were made, between January and February 2019, Amber’s new counsel continued to represent to the court and to the defendants’ counsel that Amber’s persistent failure to comply with the timelines set for the Listing Exercise was due to “the sheer number of documents involved”. 
10 In the interim, Amber took out the present leave application (HC/SUM 484/2019) ex parte seeking leave to use the Documents for the purpose of making reports to the authorities. As the leave application was taken out ex parte, the defendants had no notice of the extraneous purpose which Amber had used, and was seeking to use, the Documents for. Without such knowledge, the defendants agreed to a further extension of time sought by Amber to comply with the Listing Exercise. On the premise of the defendants’ agreement, the Judge granted Amber an extension of time to comply with the terms of the Listing Exercise by April 2019.
11 After the extension of time was obtained, on 12 February 2019, Amber served the summons for leave and the supporting affidavit on the defendants. The defendants objected to the leave application.
Procedural history
12 The Judge granted Amber leave to disclose 23 of the 32 Documents which pertained to the EFMA offences. Leave was denied for the release of the remaining nine documents, which pertained to other offences, including the staple saga. 
13 Both parties appealed against the Judge’s decision, with the defendants arguing that leave ought not to have been granted for any of the Documents, and Amber arguing that leave ought to have been granted for all of the Documents. 
Decision of the Court of Appeal
14 One of the core principles which regulated the conduct of civil proceedings was that documents ordered to be disclosed were to be used only for the purposes of the civil proceedings from which the disclosure was made, and not for any collateral purpose save with express leave of court (“the Riddick undertaking”): at [1].
The balancing of interests approach
15 The weight of the authorities in the Commonwealth demonstrated that, in determining whether a party ought to be released from its Riddick undertaking, a balancing of interests test was to be adopted: at [45].
16 Under the balancing of interests approach, the court would engage in a multifactorial balancing exercise, and leave would be granted if, in all the circumstances of the case, the interests advanced for the extraneous use of the disclosed documents outweighed the interests that were protected by the Riddick undertaking. Factors such as injustice (or lack thereof) to the disclosing party and the privileges which could be asserted, were relevant factors, with the appropriate weight dependent on the specific circumstances of each case: at [46]–[47] and [69].
17 Surveying the authorities, the following were non-exhaustive factors in favour of lifting the Riddick undertaking: (a) countervailing legislative policy; (b) support of related proceedings; (c) investigation and prosecution of criminal offence(s); (d) public safety concerns; and (e) international comity: at [71].
18 The factors in favour of granting leave were to be balanced against the interest sought to be protected by the Riddick undertaking, namely the public interest in encouraging full disclosure and the disclosing party’s privacy interests. Other factors which could militate against the grant of leave included: (a) injustice or prejudice to the disclosing party; (b) improper purpose for which leave was sought; and (c) the timeous assertion of the privilege against self-incrimination by the disclosing party: at [72].
19 As regards the factor of prejudice, while this court had held in Beckkett Pte Ltd v Deutsche Bank AG [2005] 3 SLR(R) 555 that prejudice to the disclosing party would operate as an overriding factor against the grant of leave, the court held that prejudice was but a factor which could be accorded relevance, with the appropriate weight to be given to it dependant on the entire circumstances of each case: at [60] and [68].
Leave to release Amber from its Riddick undertaking
20 The court held that the weightiest factor against the release of the Riddick undertaking was the defendants’ privilege against self-incrimination. In the present case, the defendants could not reasonably have been expected to assert the privilege against self-incrimination until they gained notice of the present summons for leave. Prior to that, the defendants had been led by Amber to form the impression that the seized documents would be returned upon the completion of the Listing Exercise, which had been delayed simply because of the magnitude of the task. Once the defendants gained notice of the present summons for leave and of Amber’s intention to utilise the Documents for criminal investigation purposes, it became apparent to them, for the first time, that there was a reasonable, rather than fanciful, risk that they could be incriminated by the Documents which had been handed over to Amber pursuant to the search orders. Given the reasonable risk, the defendants then timeously asserted the privilege against self-incrimination through the first affidavit which they filed in response to the summons for leave. Save in exceptional circumstances, such timeous and proper assertion of the privilege was a factor which was to be given significant weight in the balancing exercise: at [78]–[91].
21 Another significant factor against the lifting of the Riddick undertaking was that Amber’s application was motivated by an improper purpose. Amber gave multiple express undertakings, both to the defendants and the court, that the seized documents would not be used for extraneous purposes, or disclosed to third parties. Despite these undertakings, and even though Amber itself accepted that it had no entitlement to the documents which belonged to the defendants, or in respect of which ownership was disputed, Amber unilaterally proceeded to review the substance of the defendants’ documents, even though this was not required under the Listing Exercise. Despite doing so, Amber consistently conveyed the misleading impression that its various delays in complying with the Listing Exercise were solely attributable to the magnitude of the exercise. By acting in this manner, Amber obtained various extensions of time, with the final extension having been obtained while it was concealing the ex parte leave application from the defendants. This lengthy review of the defendants’ documents enabled Amber to identify the Documents which apparently disclosed the commission of potential offences. In the court’s view, it beggared belief that Amber was spurred solely by a sense of “civic duty” to undertake the extensive review of the defendants’ documents, which it did not have to do pursuant to the Listing Exercise. Rather, reviewing its conduct in totality, the repeated extensions of time sought to review the defendants’ documents was to drive further investigations in order to exert pressure on the defendants and was thus a blatant abuse of process by Amber. To grant leave to Amber to disclose the Documents in such circumstances would be to condone the grave misuse of the court’s machinery: at [92]–[101].
22 The release from the Riddick undertaking would also undermine the protection of privacy and confidentiality afforded by the undertaking, and compromise the public interest in encouraging full disclosure of documents in the interests of justice: at [102]–[103].
23 Finally, the defendants would also suffer prejudice, in being subject to criminal investigations and possible prosecution, by the release of the Riddick undertaking. This was a relevant, albeit not necessarily overriding, factor: at [106].
24 Balanced against the factors above was that the Documents were necessary for the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. However, the relevant reports had already been made to the authorities, and the reports were also supported by some of the Documents. Therefore, the authorities had been notified of the possible offences, and were well positioned to invoke their own powers to seize any additional documents or information from the defendants. Despite this, there was little evidence of ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution of the defendants following Amber’s reports. In the result, the merit of allowing further disclosure of the Documents to the authorities was uncertain: at [110]–[111].
25 In all the circumstances, the balance weighed overwhelmingly against the grant of leave with respect to all the Documents: at [112].
 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
