
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
13 August 2020
Case summary
Civil Appeals Nos 23 of 2020 and 24 of 2020
Gobi a/l Avedian and another v Attorney-General and another appeal [2020] SGCA 77
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses appellants’ applications to prevent death penalty from being carried out based on an allegation of an illegal execution method 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

There was no factual basis to grant leave to commence judicial review to seek an order to prohibit the executions as the appellants had only produced unreliable evidence in support of their allegations of illegal execution methods.
There was no legal basis to grant leave to commence judicial review to seek orders to grant immunity from criminal and civil liability to the Witness as the AG had already declined to do so and the court did not have the power to grant immunity.
There was no breach of the appellants’ right to counsel as the right did not exist in the context of civil proceedings. In any event, the counsel continued to act for the appellants without reservation.

Background
1 The appellants were convicted in separate proceedings for drug-related offences and sentenced to the death penalty. While they were awaiting the execution of their sentences, Lawyers for Liberty (“LFL”) released a press statement (“the LFL Press Statement”) alleging that it had discovered that in the event the rope broke during an execution, officers of the Singapore Prison Service (“the SPS”) were trained to execute the prisoner by kicking the back of the prisoner’s neck. LFL claimed it received this information from a former SPS officer who was not identified (“the Witness”).
2 The appellants applied for leave to commence judicial review seeking a prohibiting order to stay their sentences (“the Prohibiting Order”) and a mandatory order directing the Attorney-General (“the AG”) and the Minister for Home Affairs (“the Minister”) to grant immunity from criminal and civil liabilities to the Witness so that he would be willing to provide evidence (“the Mandatory Order”). In their application, they relied on the LFL Press Statement and an affidavit filed by their Malaysian solicitor, Mr Zaid bin Abd Malek (“Mr Zaid”), in which he claimed he had met the Witness. The appellants were represented by Mr Ravi s/o Madasamy (“Mr Ravi”). 
3 At a pre-trial conference, the representative for the Attorney-General informed the court, “I am also instructed to state that we are expressly reserving all our rights against Mr Ravi” (“the Statement”). Subsequently, the appellants filed an application for a declaration that the Statement breached their right to counsel and a fair hearing. To their first application, the appellants also added an application for an order that the court grant immunity to the Witness (“the Court Immunity Order”).
4 The High Court judge dismissed the applications and the appellants filed appeals to the Court of Appeal. Prior to the substantive hearing of the appeals, the appellants wrote to complain that the SPS had forwarded copies of their documents to the AGC. The AGC’s position was that the documents they had received from the SPS were neither confidential nor privileged.
 
The court’s decision
 
5 There was no basis for the Mandatory Order in relation to the AG. Prosecutorial discretion was vested wholly in the AG and the court would not interfere unless the discretion had been exercised unlawfully. As a general rule, an applicant for judicial review also had to exhaust all alternative remedies, and the appellants had not sought a stay of execution first. In any event, the AG had considered the matter and declined to grant immunity and in doing so, had exercised his discretion. There was no basis to claim that the exercise of discretion was unlawful (at [47]–[49]).
6 There was no basis for the Mandatory Order in relation to the Minister. In relation to criminal liabilities, the prosecutorial power was exercised by the AG and not the Minister. The appellants did not indicate what civil liabilities the Witness risked by testifying, and there was no basis to find that the Minister could grant immunity from those liabilities (at [50]).
7 The provision of the Evidence Act that the appellants relied on for the Court Immunity Order did not provide a basis to avoid prosecution for potential criminal offences revealed in the Witness’s affidavit or events that occurred outside of judicial proceedings, or prosecution for giving false evidence (at [52]).
8 The threshold of proof for an application for leave to commence judicial review was a very low one but this did not mean that the evidence and arguments placed before the court could be either skimpy or vague. The only evidence before the court was the LFL Press Statement and Mr Zaid’s affidavit. The LFL Press Statement was a media statement that on its own was not reliable evidence. Mr Zaid’s affidavit was admissible but failed to meet the minimum threshold of reliability and no weight could be placed on it. There was no basis for the Prohibiting Order (at [54], [55] and [63]).
9 As for the application for declaratory relief, the Statement was a wide and open-ended reservation that lacked specificity. In the circumstances, the Statement might reasonably have been construed as intimidating, but it was not a breach of the appellants’ right to counsel. The right to counsel did not exist in civil proceedings and in any event, Mr Ravi continued to act for the Appellants (at [78], [79] and [82]).
10 There were regulations that permitted the SPS to make copies of the appellants’ documents, but the regulations were intended to facilitate the management of the prison by the SPS. Forwarding correspondence to the AGC was not relevant to the good management of the prison. If the AGC wished to obtain copies of letters belonging to the prisoner that were in the SPS’s possession, the proper procedure was to obtain the prisoner’s consent or an order of court (at [88]–[91]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
