
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
7 August 2020
Case summary
Law Society of Singapore v Tan Chun Chuen Malcolm [2020] SGHC 166
Originating Summons No 1 of 2020
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):
Outcome: Court of Three Judges strikes solicitor off the roll for charges involving dishonesty and conflict of interest. 
Pertinent and significant points of the decision:

As a general rule, it is inadvisable for solicitors to enter into business transactions with their clients since this will often have a real potential to give rise to a conflict of interest. In that light, a solicitor who invites a prospective client to consummate a solicitor-client relationship with him in order to then deal with that client as a principal in a separate business transaction is courting professional disaster: at [55] and [58].

The Court's decision
1 This was an application by the Law Society of Singapore (“the Law Society”) for sanctions to be imposed on the respondent, Mr Tan Chun Chuen Malcolm (“Mr Tan”), under s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”). 
2 At all material times, Mr Tan, an advocate and solicitor of 20 years’ standing, practised with Keystone Law Corporation (“Keystone”), and was also the sole shareholder and director of Bluesky Group Pte Ltd (“Bluesky”), a company providing business management consultancy and real estate agency services.
3 The Law Society brought seven charges against Mr Tan, all of which essentially arose from the intended engagement of Keystone’s services by the complainant, Mr Kuek Yan Yeon (“Mr Kuek”). Mr Kuek signed two letters of engagement with Keystone, each relating to a scheme promoted to him by Mr Tan, and which he intended to invest in. The first was a “12% guaranteed returns investment” scheme in respect of a sum of $150,000. According to Mr Kuek, Mr Tan had assured him by way of a Whatsapp message (“the March Statement”) and also orally that the promised 12% profits under this scheme would be guaranteed by “his professional indemnity insurance as a lawyer”. The second scheme was a “[f]ull sum non guaranteed” investment scheme in respect of a sum of $100,000. Both letters of engagement stated that Keystone would, among other duties, oversee the investment of Mr Kuek’s monies, and that Mr Tan would be “[t]he lawyer in charge of this matter”. 
4 Apart from signing the two letters of engagement, Mr Kuek also signed Warrants to Act in favour of Keystone. However, he paid the sum of $250,000 which he was investing (“the investment sum”) to Bluesky, instead of into Keystone’s client account as provided for in the letters of engagement. He testified that he did so because Mr Tan had told him that it was “for ease of transaction” and would be “the same” as making the payment to Keystone.
5 Of the seven charges brought by the Law Society, the Disciplinary Tribunal (“the Tribunal”) held that the first five charges had been established, and that there was cause of sufficient gravity in relation to these charges for the purposes of s 93(1)(c) of the LPA. In essence, these charges alleged that:


Mr Tan made false and fraudulent representations to Mr Kuek for the purpose of soliciting the latter’s engagement of his and/or Keystone’s services in respect of the investment sum (“the first charge”). The representations in question were that: (i) Mr Tan was qualified and able to promote investment products and provide investment advice in his capacity as an advocate and solicitor; and (ii) his professional indemnity insurance as an advocate and solicitor would assure or guarantee the promised returns in respect of the “12% guaranteed returns investment” scheme.
Mr Tan procured Mr Kuek’s execution of the two letters of engagement under improper and dishonest circumstances (“the second charge”), in that he: (i) did not in fact provide legal services but instead provided investment services under the false pretence reflected by the letters of engagement; and (ii) procured Mr Kuek’s payment of the investment sum into Bluesky’s account by falsely representing to him that this was in accordance with the terms of the letters of engagement, even though those letters provided for that sum to be paid into Keystone’s client account instead. 
Mr Tan failed to keep Mr Kuek reasonably informed of the progress of matters pertaining to his engagement of Keystone’s services and failed to provide satisfactory responses and/or updates despite his queries (“the third charge”).
Mr Tan failed to keep proper contemporaneous records of instructions received from and advice rendered to Mr Kuek (“the fourth charge”).
Mr Tan placed himself in a position in which his duty to serve Mr Kuek’s best interests conflicted with his own interests when he procured and/or instructed Mr Kuek to pay the investment sum to Bluesky, and he failed to take the necessary steps to obviate the conflict (“the fifth charge”).

6 Although Mr Tan chose not to give evidence in the proceedings before the Tribunal, he contested the charges both there and also before the Court of Three Judges (“the Court”). He contended that he had never consummated a solicitor-client relationship with Mr Kuek, and therefore never came under the duties and obligations of an advocate and solicitor that he might otherwise have been subject to.

The Court’s decision
7 The Court held that there had been a solicitor-client relationship between Mr Tan and Mr Kuek. Mr Tan’s assertion to the contrary was plainly contradicted by the express terms of the letters of engagement, which left no room for any doubt that Mr Kuek was engaging Keystone as a law firm to act for him in connection with the two investment schemes promoted to him by Mr Tan. This conclusion was fortified by the fact that the letters of engagement and the Warrants to Act had been signed in the context of Mr Tan’s representation that the profits under the “12% guaranteed returns investment” scheme would be guaranteed by his professional indemnity insurance as a lawyer. Mr Kuek had been left with the impression that in investing in the two investment schemes, his interests would be protected by Mr Tan as his solicitor pursuant to the terms of the letters of engagement. There was no evidential basis for Mr Tan’s contention that those letters were subsequently superseded by a revised and final agreement. Pertinently, in the proceedings before the Tribunal, Mr Tan’s then counsel had conceded that Mr Kuek would not have invested in the two investment schemes without the assurance of Keystone’s supervision of his investments, and that there was an obligation on Keystone to perform the terms of the engagement. The Court was therefore satisfied that Mr Tan was at all times subject to the duties incumbent upon him as a solicitor in a solicitor-client relationship with Mr Kuek: at [10]-[13].
8 On the first charge, the Court held that Mr Tan’s representation that his professional indemnity insurance as a lawyer would guarantee the promised returns under the “12% guaranteed returns investment” scheme had been proved beyond reasonable doubt. The March Statement indicated clearly and unambiguously that Mr Tan’s professional indemnity insurance could be used to guarantee those returns, and Mr Tan had also repeated this to Mr Kuek orally. Mr Tan could not have honestly believed in the truth of this representation. It was plain that Mr Tan had been trying to impress Mr Kuek in order to induce him to invest in the “12% guaranteed returns investment” scheme. Given the blatantly false nature of this representation and the fact that it had been repeated, the Court found that it had been made fraudulently in an effort to procure Mr Kuek’s engagement of Keystone in order to secure his investment. This alone was sufficient to establish the first charge: at [17]-[20].
9 The Court was also satisfied, in respect of the first charge, that Mr Tan had falsely and fraudulently represented that he was qualified and able to promote investment products and provide investment advice in his capacity as an advocate and solicitor. The only way to make sense of Mr Tan’s unequivocal representation, both in the March Statement and orally, that his professional indemnity insurance as a lawyer could be invoked to guarantee the payment of the promised investment returns was if he, as an advocate and solicitor, could provide the relevant services that would ensure that those returns would be forthcoming. Mr Tan did not contend that this representation was true, and the Court was similarly satisfied that it had been made fraudulently. Mr Tan’s dishonesty was flagrant and an abuse of the trust Mr Kuek had placed in him as an advocate and solicitor. This was fraudulent and grossly improper conduct under s 83(2)(b) of the LPA: at [21] and [23].
10 In relation to the second charge, the Court held that the terms of the letters of engagement clearly indicated that Keystone was being engaged to supervise Mr Kuek’s investments, among other duties. Keystone thus had a professional and fiduciary duty to act in Mr Kuek’s interests, including to ensure that his investments were subject to the protections Keystone had been engaged to provide. It was common ground that, in spite of this, the legal services stipulated in the letters of engagement were not provided, and the evidence showed that Mr Tan never intended to provide those services. The fact that Mr Kuek paid the investment sum to Bluesky despite the letters of engagement providing for it to be paid to Keystone did not show that Mr Kuek knew that he was investing that sum directly with Bluesky and that Keystone would not be acting as trustee of that sum. This was because Mr Kuek made the payment to Bluesky after being assured by Mr Tan that it would be “the same” as making the payment to Keystone. What was material to Mr Kuek was Keystone’s supervision of his investments, without which he would not have invested in the two investment schemes promoted by Mr Tan at all, and Keystone’s supervision, or rather, the lack thereof, was also the key fact as to which he was being deceived by Mr Tan. In addition, there were other falsehoods operating at the material time, such as Mr Tan’s false representation that his business entities would soon qualify for a licence issued by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. The Court thus found that the second charge was made out, and that Mr Tan’s conduct amply met the threshold for fraudulent and grossly improper conduct under s 83(2)(b) of the LPA: at [27]-[32].
11 The Court held, and Mr Tan’s counsel also accepted, that given that the first two charges were made out, the fifth charge was necessarily made out as well. Mr Tan had convinced Mr Kuek, his client, to enter into a transaction which furthered Mr Tan’s own interests under false pretences. In doing so, Mr Tan had preferred his own interest, which was ultimately to procure Mr Kuek to invest his monies with Bluesky through those false pretences, over that of Mr Kuek, which was to have his investments safeguarded in accordance with the assurances that had been given to him. This was a very serious conflict of interest and an abuse of trust. It was incumbent on Mr Tan to take steps to obviate the conflict. However, Mr Tan did not discharge his obligation to ensure that Mr Kuek was not under the impression that his interests were being protected by Mr Tan. In this regard, the mere fact that Mr Kuek knew that Bluesky was Mr Tan’s company was beside the point. Rather, it was critical for Mr Tan to disclose the fact that Keystone would not supervise Mr Kuek’s investments since this was the matter of central importance to Mr Kuek. As the very premise on which Mr Kuek had agreed to invest in the two investment schemes promoted by Mr Tan was false and not corrected, there could be no conceivable argument that Mr Tan had adequately disclosed his conflict of interest to Mr Kuek: at [38], [39] and [41].
12 Although the Court held that the first, second and fifth charges were made out, it set aside Mr Tan’s conviction on the third and fourth charges. This was because these two charges were inconsistent with the first, second and fifth charges. A central feature of the latter three charges was that the solicitor-client relationship had been entered into on a fraudulent basis, with Mr Tan having had no intention to act as Mr Kuek’s lawyer. In contrast, the third and fourth charges rested on the premise that Mr Tan was nevertheless expected to perform the duties he would have been required to perform as Mr Kuek’s lawyer: at [44] and [45].
13 The Court held that while Mr Tan’s conduct as set out in the fifth charge alone warranted striking him off the roll, the first and second charges, which were closely tied to the fifth charge, also provided ample basis to conclude that striking off was the appropriate sanction. These three charges all involved dishonesty that violated the relationship of trust and confidence inherent in a solicitor-client relationship, in that Mr Tan procured Mr Kuek’s engagement of Keystone’s services (and, in turn, his services as the designed solicitor in charge) by making representations that created false expectations as to what assurances the solicitor-client relationship could provide. Those representations were directly tied to Mr Tan’s standing as an advocate and solicitor, and his dishonesty was exacerbated by the fact that he constructed an elaborate hoax using the letters of engagement and the Warrants to Act as a pretext to secure payment of the investment sum into the account of a company that he controlled. Under the framework set out in Law Society of Singapore v Chia Choon Yang [2018] 5 SLR 1068, striking off was the presumptive sanction in the absence of any truly exceptional facts: at [43] and [46]-[48]. 
14 The Court noted that Mr Tan had made efforts to settle the matter with Mr Kuek prior to the hearings before the Tribunal and before it, and had also repaid half of the investment sum to Mr Tan. The Court held that while these actions might reduce Mr Tan’s personal culpability in any criminal proceedings that might ensue, personal culpability and mitigating circumstances had little relevance in the context of disciplinary proceedings concerning dishonesty, particularly in cases where striking off was the presumptive penalty. The need to protect the public and uphold public confidence in the legal profession were the predominant considerations in the present case: at [52].
15 The Court therefore ordered Mr Tan to be struck off the roll and to pay costs of $25,000 in respect of the proceedings before it and the Tribunal. The Court also stated that it would refer the matter to the Public Prosecutor to consider whether any criminal charges ought to be brought against Mr Tan: at [53] and [54].

Coda on business transactions between solicitors and their clients
16 The Court stated that as a general rule, it was inadvisable for solicitors to enter into business transactions with their clients since this would often have a real potential to give rise to a conflict of interest. In that light, the Court cautioned that a solicitor who invited a prospective client to consummate a solicitor-client relationship with him in order to then deal with that client as a principal in a separate business transaction was courting professional disaster, particularly where the solicitor used his professional status to give the prospective client some sort of assurance that the client’s interests would thereby be safeguarded: at [55], [58] and [59].
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
