
 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
4 August 2020
Case summary
VDZ v VEA [2020] SGCA 75
Civil Appeal No 212 of 2019
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

Judicial mercy will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances.
The non-adversarial system of “Therapeutic Justice” in the family justice system is not merely an ideal, but a necessity. 

Introduction
1 The respondent and the appellant, who were previously husband and wife, had two children – a son and a daughter. The respondent had initiated contempt proceedings against the appellant for her purported breach of two court orders dated 4 September 2017 (“the 2017 Order”) and 27 June 2018 (“the 2018 Order”). The 2017 Order prohibited the parties from making disparaging remarks about the other party to the children, while the 2018 Order restrained the parties from involving the children in the litigation between them, including showing them copies of any legal or court documents.
Background to the appeal
2 On 24 June 2019, the daughter made a series of posts on her Facebook and Instagram social media accounts, alleging that the respondent was a pervert and sexual predator. The posts revealed the respondent’s personal information, including his name and employment details. Following these posts, a reporter from the newspaper contacted the daughter and was granted an interview at the former matrimonial home. The appellant allowed the interview, which focused on the daughter’s social media posts. The interview resulted in a news article on 27 June 2019.
3 On 4 July 2019, the daughter made another social media post on her Instagram account, alleging that the respondent had abused the court process to harm the appellant and the children. The next day, on 5 July 2019, the daughter made another social media post on Facebook, focusing on how the appellant and children had suffered as a result of court orders and the respondent’s actions. Subsequently, the respondent obtained leave from the High Court to commence committal proceedings against the appellant. 
4 The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) found that the appellant had been in breach of the 2018 Order, as she had allowed access to court documents which the daughter had read and used as reference material for her social media posts. After taking into account the appellant’s prevailing medical condition, the Judge sentenced the appellant to a one-week imprisonment term for her contempt of court.
The decision on appeal
5 The Court of Appeal found that, notwithstanding the fact that the 2018 Order was not limited to negative obligations only, it was, in any event, clear that the Judge had arrived at her decision on the basis that the appellant had breached the negative obligation to refrain from involving the children in the litigation between her and her husband. The appellant’s argument that the 2017 and 2018 Orders only imposed specific negative obligations which the appellant had not breached was therefore rejected: at [27] and [28].
6 The Court of Appeal found that the appellant had allowed her daughter access to court documents. The daughter’s posts were replete with details that she could not have obtained herself, unless she had read the appellant’s affidavits. In addition, the daughter’s posts contained numerous intimate pictures of the respondent that could not have been easily obtained without the appellant’s assistance: at [29] and [33].
7 Although the appellant denied that she was responsible for any access by the children to legal or court documents, her explanations were unconvincing. On her own testimony, although she became aware of the daughter’s posts on 25 June 2019, she only took steps to prohibit the daughter from accessing the court documents after 4 July 2019: at [30]–[32]. 
8 The Court of Appeal affirmed that circumstantial evidence did not bar the court from finding that the standard of beyond a reasonable doubt had been met. The totality of the evidence provided an irresistible inference that the appellant had breached the 2018 Order: at [39] and [44].
9 There was a need to impose a sufficiently punitive sentence to ensure that the appellant refrained from any further instances of contempt of court. The appellant had also previously been found to be in contempt for refusing to handover the children to the respondent at the correct venue. Considering the prevailing case law on contempt by disobedience, a one-week imprisonment sentence would be appropriate: at [56]–[66]. 
10 However, the Court of Appeal found that the severity of the appellant’s medical condition justified the exercise of judicial mercy to temper the punishment to be imposed. The appellant had been diagnosed with metastatic advanced Stage 4 breast cancer, and had been found to be unsuitable for incarceration. In the circumstances, humanitarian considerations would take centre stage. The appellant was thus ordered to pay a fine of $5000: at [70]–[74].
11 The concept of “Therapeutic Justice”, which functions as a non-adversarial system that allows the healing, restoring and recasting of a positive future, is not merely an ideal in the family justice system – it is a necessity. Former spouses ought to refrain from engaging in antagonistic behaviour so that they (and their children) can achieve as much healing in all its variegated aspects as is possible in order that they move forward as positively as possible in their lives: at [78]–[82].
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
