
 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
28 July 2020
Case summary
Singapore Recreation Club v Abdul Rashid Mohamed Ali & Anor [2020] SGHC 156 
Suit No 1104 of 2017
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outcome: High Court dismisses suit by Singapore Recreation Club against former Club General Manager-cum-Secretary and former Club President. 
 
1 This suit arises in the backdrop of a change in leadership at one of Singapore’s oldest social clubs: [2], [5].  In gist, the Club sued its former General Manager-cum-Secretary (the “first defendant”) and former President (the “second defendant”) on several bases.  All of the Club’s claims have been dismissed in their entirety: [138].  The first defendant counterclaimed against the Club for wrongful dismissal and was, at least in part, successful. 
The Club’s claims
2 The Club made, inter alia, the following claims in relation to the first and second defendants:
 a) That the first defendant had removed the Club’s property, including one Dell laptop, from the Club and not returned the said property: [34] to [50];
 b) That the second defendant had improperly and without the approval of the Club’s management committee (“MC”) procured the payment of “special” bonuses to the first defendant, and that the first defendant accepted such bonuses despite knowing that they had not been approved: [51] to [83];
 c) That the first and second defendants caused loss to the Club by failing to ensure that Visiting Membership fees were collected by the Club for the guests who stayed at the Residence from 2009 to 2014: [84] to [89];
 d)That the first and second defendants improperly and without the approval of the Club’s MC procured the payment of moneys to various online booking agents and platforms which had been contracted by the Club for the purposes of securing occupancy of the Residence: [90] to [103]; and
 e)That the first and second defendants operated the Residence in breach of the Hotels Act and/or a condition set by the Urban Redevelopment Authority that the Residence not be operated as an independent hotel and therefore ought to indemnify the Club: [104] to [113].
3 Each of these claims was dismissed by the Court.  The first defendant’s counterclaim for wrongful dismissal after having been allegedly summarily dismissed on 1 September 2014, was partially successful.  The Court ordered that the first defendant be paid his salary-in-lieu-of-notice for his two-month notice period, subject to the sums already paid to him by the Club: [127].  
 
The material facts
4 The first defendant was employed by the Club as its General Manager-cum-Secretary from June 2002 until the end of August 2014.  The second defendant had been elected as the Club’s president in 1995 and held that position for almost 22 years.  Although the second defendant was the Club’s President until April 2016, he had in fact been suspended by the Club at the end of 2015 pursuant to a complaint made in July 2015 by the Club’s then vice-president, Dr Sarbjit Singh (“Dr Singh”).
5 In the MC elections of April 2014, nine of the 12 members elected were part of a team led by Dr Singh.  These nine had campaigned as part of Dr Singh’s team.  The remaining three elected MC members were the second defendant and two members of the previous MC.  Thus, while the second defendant still held his position as the Club’s president, he no longer held sway over the MC. 
6 After the new MC took office, there were discussions amongst the members who came in as part of Dr Singh’s team that the time was ripe for a change of General Manager-cum-Secretary for the Club.  On 11 August 2014, the MC resolved, by majority, that the first defendant’s employment would be terminated.  This resolution, proposed by Dr Singh, was passed at the MC’s monthly meeting.  The first defendant was given an option to either resign or be given two months’ notice of the termination of his employment by the Club.  The first defendant opted for the former option, and he signed a pre-prepared letter of resignation which was handed to him by Dr Singh.  The first defendant was then placed on garden leave for his notice period. 
7 The Club alleges that the first defendant, after having resigned, took documents from the Club that night on 11 August 2014 before leaving.  The Club also alleges that the first defendant failed to return the laptop issued to him.  Without informing the first defendant, Mr Derrick D’Souza (“Mr D’Souza”), an MC member of the Club, made two police reports against the first defendant, alleging that he had “stolen” the Club’s documents and property. 
8 On 1 September 2014, whilst he was serving his garden leave, the first defendant was asked to attend a meeting at the Club.  The reason he was given for the meeting was to discuss the issue of his substantial unconsumed annual leave and whether it would be encashed.  However, at the meeting, which the Club itself acknowledges is more aptly described as an “inquiry”, Dr Singh, and three other MC members grilled the first defendant about the missing laptop.  The first defendant denied any wrongdoing.  However, the Club nonetheless decided to terminate him with immediate effect on grounds of unprofessional conduct.  A year later, the Club brought proceedings against the first defendant.  These proceedings were added to over time until they encompassed all the claims outlined at [2] above. 
The court’s grounds of decision
9 In relation to the Club’s claim that the first defendant had misappropriated its property, including the Dell laptop, the Club did not adduce any evidence as to what might have been removed by the first defendant and/or not returned by him to the Club.  The Club also has been unable to identify what property or documents of the Club, if any, were supposedly removed from the first defendant’s office the night of 11 August 2014 and not returned: [37].  In fact, both Dr Singh and Mr D’Souza conceded during cross-examination that up to the time of the trial, more than five years since the incident on 11 August 2014, the Club still had not been able to identify any particular missing documents or property, apart from the Dell laptop, which might have been taken away by the first defendant: [37]. 
10 As for the Dell laptop which was allegedly taken by the first defendant, whether the allegation was made out depended on the contrasting evidence of the first defendant and Mr D’Souza on whether the laptop was left on the table in the office: [46].  The Court did not find Mr D’Souza to be a credible witness: [47] – [48].  The “objective” evidence relied on by the Club was also equivocal at best: [42] – [44].  Overall, the Club had failed to discharge its burden of proof that the first defendant had misappropriated the Dell laptop. 
11 The Club’s claim in relation to the “special” bonuses was that the relevant MCs had not approved such bonuses to be paid out to the first defendant over several years.  In fact, according to Dr Singh, the second defendant, who together with the first defendant had “control” over payments, had secretly arranged the payment out of these bonuses: [60].  The Court rejected this as being at tension with the objective evidence.  Dr Singh’s evidence that this issue of “special” bonuses had never been discussed by the relevant MCs was contradicted by the clear evidence of ten former MC members who gave evidence, and was in any event showed to be false by objective evidence in the form of letters dating back to 2007: [59].  Because of significant inaccuracies in Dr Singh’s evidence, the Court was unable to accept it in relation to the “special” bonuses: [60].  Further, the fact that approval had not been explicitly recorded in the MC minutes was not in itself sufficient to indicate that the MC had not granted the relevant approvals – several important decisions were not recorded in the MC minutes even after Dr Singh took over leadership of the Club, and the second defendant provided a coherent explanation as to why the MC minutes may not have included reference to the relevant bonuses: [61] – [64], [76].
12 As for the Club’s claim for uncollected Visiting Membership fees, the difficulty with the Club’s case in this regard is that almost all the MC members, past and present, who gave evidence in this case, whether for the Club or for the defendants, did not appear to be aware of the existence of any requirement to collect Visiting Membership fees.  There was no evidence before the Court that the MC had ever authorised the collection of Visiting Membership fees for the guests at the Residence: [87].  In fact, Article 18 of the Club’s Constitution states that no entrance fee shall be collected for Visiting Members, and it would have been a breach of the Club’s Constitution for Visiting Membership fees to have been collected: [88].
13 Turning to the commissions paid by the Club to various booking agents, the Court found that the MCs for the period from 2008 to 2014 were fully aware of the condition that the guest rooms at the Residence not be operated as independent hotel rooms.  This was the clear and consistent evidence of the MC members who testified on behalf of the defendants: [91].  The minutes of the MC meeting of 15 December 2009 even showed that an email from the URA to the Club dated 2 December 2009 had been tabled and discussed, and that email concerned the condition set that the Residence not be operated as an independent hotel: [91].  The MC members from 2007 to 2013 who gave evidence for the defendants testified that they were fully aware of and approved the use of booking agents in order to secure occupancy of the Residence guest rooms: [93].  Like the case of the first defendant’s bonuses, Dr Singh was the only MC member from that period who was prepared to testify that he was ignorant that the Club was using booking agents.  After reviewing the totality of the evidence, documentary and oral, the Court concluded that Dr Singh was simply not being truthful in this regard: [93] – [96].  The objective evidence from the time, including the Club’s Annual Report and various financial reports, made clear that moneys were being paid to various booking agents.  This was done with the knowledge and acceptance of the MC. 
14 As for any indemnities sought by the Club, the grant of indemnities at this stage was inappropriate given the absence of any pending regulatory proceedings against the Club (at [108]), the clear authority indicating that granting an indemnity at this point would be premature (at [109]), and the fact that an indemnity would not properly account for the range of regulatory measures the relevant authorities could take, if they chose to do so (at [111]). 
15 Finally, in relation to the first defendant’s counterclaim, the Club had failed to show that it had sound basis to summarily dismiss the first defendant on 1 September 2014.  None of the required grounds for repudiatory breach outlined in RDC Concrete Pte Ltd v Sato Kyogo (S) Pte Ltd and another appeal [2007] 4 SLR(R) 413 from [90] to [101] had been satisfied.  In particular, the Club’s “inquiry” into the first defendant’s behaviour had been carried out in an oppressive and aggressive manner where the first defendant was ambushed and caught unawares: [125] – [126], and had hampered the ability of the first defendant to properly explain himself.  However, in relation to any ex gratia payments the first defendant sought, the Club was entitled, in the absence of any implied term that it would pay them, to decline to make payment: [131].
16 Overall, the Court was satisfied that there was no basis for any of the Club’s claims, and they were accordingly dismissed: [127]. 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
