
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
24 July 2020
Case summary
Asep Ardiansyah v Public Prosecutor [2020] SGCA 74
Criminal Appeal No 32 of 2019
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):
Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against High Court’s decision to convict the accused person on a charge for attempted rape and a charge for sexual assault by penetration.

1 This appeal pertained to the conviction of Asep Ardiansyah on a charge of sexual assault by penetration and also on a charge of attempted rape. There was no appeal against sentence. 
Background to the appeal
 
2 The alleged victim (“the complainant”) arrived at Duxton Hotel just after midnight on 26 January 2014 for a birthday party, where she consumed a number of alcoholic drinks. At about 1.00am, some of the other attendees prepared to leave for a nightclub. However, the complainant had difficulty standing up on her own, collapsed on the ground of the first floor, and some evidence suggested she also vomitted there, in the bathroom, and subsequently on the bed. With the exception of Mr Muhammad Fadly bin Abdull Wahab (“Mr Fadly”) and Mr Muhammad Hazly bin Mohamad Halimi (“Mr Hazly”), the other attendees of the party left for Zouk. 
3 At around 2.20am, the complainant was seen in an unconscious state on the floor of the bedroom. Between 2.20am and 3.45am, the complainant was raped by Mr Fadly and Mr Hazly. The appellant returned to the hotel room alone at around 3.45am and saw the complainant lying in the bathtub. In his investigative statements, he described the complainant as having been “very drunk” at this point.
4 At some point after 3.57am, Mr Muhammad Faris bin Ramlee (“Mr Faris”) went into the bathroom and had sexual intercourse with the complainant, who was still in the bathroom. The statement the appellant gave to the police on 16 October 2014 (“the second statement”) recorded him as saying that he did not think the complainant could have consented to having sexual intercourse with Mr Faris at the material time. The Judge convicted Mr Faris of rape, and found that the complainant had been severely intoxicated, at least close to unconsciousness at the material time and had not had the capacity to consent to sexual activity. Mr Faris did not appeal against his conviction. 
5 The appellant was waiting outside the bathroom and entered as soon as Mr Faris emerged alone. It was common ground that while the appellant was in the bathroom, his penis had been inserted into the complainant’s mouth, and that he had attempted to insert his penis into her vagina, although he had not managed to do so as he could not sustain his erection. The complainant testified that she could only remember flashes of the events that transpired in the bathroom with Mr Faris and the appellant, including that her body felt heavy, she had been unable to balance herself, and that she had felt like vomiting. Subsequently, the appellant left the bathroom on his own. The complainant remained in the bathroom until Mr Fadly helped her out by placing the complainant’s arm over his shoulder. 
6 Two psychiatrists, Dr Guo Song (“Dr Guo”) and Dr Munidasa Winslow (“Dr Winslow”), gave evidence at the trial on behalf of the Prosecution and the appellant respectively. Neither had examined the complainant at or around the time she was intoxicated, although Dr Guo attempted to estimate the complainant’s blood alcohol concentration levels (“BAC”) at the material time by suing the complainant’s approximation of how much alcohol she had consumed. 
7 The High Court judge identified the main issues as being whether the complainant had the requisite capacity to give consent at the material time; and (b) whether the complainant in fact consented: the Judgment at [5]. The Judge found against the appellant on both issues. The appellant filed an appeal against the conviction but not the sentence imposed.
The Court of Appeal’s decision
 
8 Three main questions arose for determination in the appeal. First, whether the complainant had the requisite capacity to consent to the sexual acts at the material time; second, whether the defence of mistake of fact applied; and third, whether the offence of attempted rape had been established: at [2].
9 The evidence, assessed as a whole, amply supported the Judge’s finding that the complainant did not have the capacity to consent to sexual activity at the relevant time (at [29]). The expert evidence in the present case was not entirely helpful in assessing the complainant’s capacity to consent at the material time. Neither of the experts examined the complainant while she was intoxicated, and the estimated BAC levels were based on various assumptions. The experts’ evidence showed that the suggestion that the complainant’s memories might have been confabulated was without basis and could be readily dismissed: at [30]-[33].
10 Further, both experts agreed that the most important assessor of the impact of alcoholic intoxication on an individual are the clinical manifestations of his or her condition. The evidence indicated that the complainant had been heavily intoxicated such that she would have had limited awareness of her surroundings as well as impaired physical and mental capabilities at the material time. The account the appellant had given in his investigative statements of the state the complainant had been in at about 3.45am indicated a very severe state of intoxication, for instance, he stated that the complainant had been “very drunk” and lying in the bathtub. The appellant also stated in the second statement that he did not think that the complainant was in a state to consent to having sex when Mr Faris went into the bathroom because she was drunk and seemed tired. Given that the alleged offences committed by the appellant occurred not long thereafter, there was little basis on which to infer that there would have been a material change in the complainant’s state of intoxication or ability to consent: at [34]-[35]
11 While there were gaps in the complainant’s memory, it was apparent from what she could remember that she had been physically very weak, nauseous, and had been falling in and out of sleep while in the bathroom. Dr Guo testified that the complainant’s account suggested that she would most likely have been unable to resist going back to sleep. This suggested that the gaps in the complainant’s memory were caused by her having been asleep or unconscious, or at least that in those moments she would have been in a similarly impaired state. The fact that she might have been standing up on her own at two points had to be seen in context. The evidence showed that her awareness of her surroundings would have been severely limited at best, and she could not have been able to voluntarily and consciously agree to the relevant sexual acts. The complainant had also needed help to leave the bathroom and get down the stairs thereafter: [37]-[40].
12 The appellant’s account of how he had obtained the complainant’s consent was incredible and did not give rise to any reasonable doubt. The account the appellant gave orally differed from that recorded in the second statement in a number of significant ways, and the latter was even more implausible. Even the appellant’s oral evidence was not credible given that the complainant had been very ill and weak and therefore could not have acted in the manner described by the appellant. It was also implausible that she would have consented in the circumstances: [41]-[43].
13 The defence of mistake of fact did not apply. The appellant’s account of how he sought and obtained the complainant’s consent was rejected on the basis that it was inherently incredible. The statements recorded from the appellant showed he had known that the complainant was heavily intoxicated both before and after the material time: [45]
14 The attempted rape charge had also been established. The appellant knew that the complainant did not have capacity to consent and it followed that he intended to engage in sexual activities with a person he knew could not consent. He had tried to insert his penis into the complainant’s vagina, which corroborated his intention to have sexual intercourse with her at that time and constituted more than substantial movement towards its fulfilment: at [47].
15 The court therefore dismissed the appeal against conviction. As there was no appeal against sentence, the sentence imposed by the Judge of 9 years’, 11 months’ and 28 days’ imprisonment and 8 strokes of the cane remained: at [50].

This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
