
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE 
17 July 2020 
Case summary 
Public Prosecutor v Aishamudin bin Jamaludin [2020] SGCA 70 Criminal Appeal No 4 of 2019 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ): 
Outcome: CoA allows Prosecution’s appeal against High Court’s decision to convict respondent on an amended, less serious charge and convicts respondent on the original charge. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment: 
 • The Court of Appeal provides guidance on the possible objections that an accused person might be entitled to raise when charged with one of a set of differing common intention charges – namely, an objection based on Art 12(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Rev Ed) or an objection based on inconsistent cases (at [91]). 
 • The Court of Appeal sets out the approach to determine whether the Prosecution has pressed inconsistent charges against two or more accused persons (at [69]). 
 • The Court of Appeal provides a tentative framework for the objection against inconsistent cases based on prejudicial outcomes (at [76]–[88]). 
Background to the appeal 
1 The respondent, Aishamudin bin Jamaludin (“Aishamudin”), was tried jointly with Mohammad Azli bin Mohammad Salleh (“Azli”) and Roszaidi bin Osman (“Roszaidi”) arising from their involvement in a drug transaction pertaining to, among other things, two packets containing not less than 32.54g of diamorphine (“the Drugs”). A separate judgment was issued in respect of Azli’s and Roszaidi’s appeals and their related applications (see Mohammad Azli bin Mohammad Salleh v Public Prosecutor and another appeal and other matters [2020] 1 SLR 1374). 
2 Aishamudin claimed trial to a capital charge of trafficking in the Drugs under s 5(1)(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) by delivering them to Roszaidi, in furtherance of his common intention with another co-accused person, Suhaizam bin Khariri (“Suhaizam”), by virtue of s 34 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed). At the material time, Aishamudin and Suhaizam were colleagues employed as truck drivers to deliver goods from Malaysia to Singapore. 
3 On 6 October 2015, Aishamudin asked Suhaizam to help him transport the Drugs to Singapore and deliver them, and Suhaizam agreed to do so. That day, Aishamudin boarded the truck driven by Suhaizam with a red plastic bag containing the Drugs, and he informed Suhaizam that there was diamorphine and methamphetamine in it. Sometime after 9.00pm, Suhaizam drove the truck to Bulim Avenue and parked it there. Roszaidi arrived in a car driven by Azli and collected the red plastic bag from Aishamudin. All the individuals involved in the transportation, delivery and collection of the red plastic bag and its contents were subsequently arrested at various locations. 
PP v Aishamudin bin Jamaludin 
4 Both Aishamudin and Suhaizam were charged for their involvement in the drug transaction. The quantity of diamorphine that was reflected in Aishamudin’s capital charge (the “original charge”) was not less than 32.54g. Suhaizam, on the other hand, pleaded guilty in the State Courts to a non-capital charge that mirrored Aishamudin’s original charge save in one material respect – the quantity of diamorphine was stated to be not less than 14.99g. 
5 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) found it logically unsound for the Prosecution to have charged Aishamudin and Suhaizam with a common intention to traffic in different amounts of diamorphine. Accordingly, he amended the quantity of diamorphine in Aishamudin’s original charge to not less than 14.99g, reflecting that stated in Suhaizam’s charge, and convicted Aishamudin on the amended charge. The Judge sentenced Aishamudin to 25 years’ imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane. 
6 The Prosecution appealed against the Judge’s decision to amend Aishamudin’s original charge. It contended that the original charge was made out, and that in reducing the original charge, the Judge interfered with the proper exercise of prosecutorial discretion. Aishamudin, on the other hand, defended the Judge’s decision to amend the original charge. 
7 The main issue in the appeal was whether the Prosecution could prefer “differing common intention charges” against two accused persons on the basis of a common intention between them − that is to say, a more serious charge against one accused person and a less serious charge against the other. 
The Court of Appeal’s decision 
8 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) held that there was nothing in the language of s 34 of the Penal Code that mandated that the Prosecution had to bring identical charges against all those who were charged pursuant to a common intention to do a criminal act, and that there were good reasons why there was no such general rule (at [45]). 
9 The Court noted that there were two well-established bases on which an accused person might be able to challenge differing common intention charges. He could raise a challenge under Art 12(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint), or he could seek to raise a reasonable doubt in respect of the elements of the charge against him (at [53]). 
10 The Court held that an accused person might also be able to challenge differing common intention charges as part of a wider objection against inconsistent cases. There were at least two strands to this objection. The first strand pertained to the need to ensure procedural fairness in criminal proceedings. In circumstances where the inconsistencies in the Prosecution’s case prevented the accused person from understanding, and therefore from being fully prepared to meet, the case which the Prosecution sought to advance against him, this might simply result in an acquittal of the charge against the accused person (at [55(a)] and [59]). 
11 The second strand of the objection against inconsistent cases concerned the need to avoid prejudicial outcomes. This might occur when the Prosecution secured a conviction against A on the basis of one set of facts, and then subsequently secured a conviction against B on the basis of a different set of facts which necessarily contradicted the basis of A’s conviction. The Court held that although there might not have been any procedural unfairness at either A’s trial or B’s trial, it would be objectionable in principle for the Prosecution to seek to secure prejudicial outcomes against different accused persons on the basis of inconsistent cases advanced against each accused person (at [55(b)], [61] and [65]). 
 
PP v Aishamudin bin Jamaludin 
12 It was important to identify what amounted to an inconsistent case, particularly in the context of differing common intention charges. The Court considered that the following approach could be used to determine whether the Prosecution was running inconsistent cases in respect of any series of charges: whether, when all the facts and arguments which were material to establishing the Prosecution’s case against each of the accused persons were spelled out, it would be possible for all of these facts and arguments to be cumulatively true. If this were answered in the negative, it would seem to point to the existence of a material inconsistency (at [68]). 
13 The present appeal was concerned with a particular subset of the analysis on inconsistent cases, namely, the pressing of charges against two or more accused persons that necessarily entailed the running of inconsistent cases (“inconsistent charges”). The Court held that inconsistent charges arose if there was some inconsistency in holding that all the elements of all the charges were cumulatively established. Such inconsistencies could be legal or factual in nature, or they could potentially be of mixed law and fact. By this definition, inconsistent charges were inconsistent on their face. This was distinct from other inconsistencies which could arise in the course of the proceedings – such as by virtue of inconsistencies in the evidence adduced, or in the case theories advanced (at [69] and [71]). 
14 The Court held that Suhaizam’s charge and Aishamudin’s original charge were not inconsistent charges. The differing elements of the two charges, which related to the actus reus of the quantity of diamorphine trafficked and the mens rea of the quantity intended to be trafficked, were entirely consistent with each other. Both Suhaizam’s charge and Aishamudin’s original charge were capable of constituting part of a single coherent world of facts in which Suhaizam and Aishamudin both shared the common intention to traffic in 32.54g (or more) of diamorphine (at [74]). 
15 The Court also held that the Prosecution did not run inconsistent cases against Suhaizam and Aishamudin in the course of their respective proceedings. It was evident from Suhaizam’s statement of facts that the Prosecution’s case against him was based on precisely the same factual matrix as the Prosecution’s case against Aishamudin. There was no basis to conclude that Suhaizam’s intention was limited to an intention to traffic in anything less than the entire quantity of diamorphine contained in the red plastic bag in Aishamudin’s possession (at [94] and [95]). 
16 Since the Prosecution did not run inconsistent cases against Suhaizam and Aishamudin, it was not necessary to consider further the notion of prejudicial outcomes, and the recourse which was available to accused persons who found themselves faced with such outcomes. However, the Court provided a tentative framework based on the doctrine of abuse of process so that these issues could be considered more fully on a subsequent occasion (at [76]–[88]). 
17 The Court held that the Prosecution had established each of the elements of the original charge against Aishamudin. It therefore allowed the Prosecution’s appeal and convicted Aishamudin of the original charge. As the Prosecution confirmed at the hearing of the appeal that it would be issuing Aishamudin with a certificate of substantive assistance, and the evidence showed that Aishamudin was a mere courier, the Court exercised its discretion under s 33B(1)(a) of the MDA to sentence Aishamudin to life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane (at [108] and [112]). 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
