
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 September 2023Case summaryHo Tze Woon v Singapore Medical Council [2023] SGHC 254Court of Three Judges – Originating Application No 3 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: The court dismisses the appellant’s appeal against his conviction but allows his appeal against sentence, reducing the duration of his suspension from nine months to three months. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The test to be applied in s 53(1)(e) cases is stated clearly in the text of the MRA. A medical practitioner has committed a disciplinary offence when he has failed to provide professional services of the quality which is reasonable to expect of him: at [37].•  While it is possible for the Wong Meng Hang sentencing framework to apply to some cases under s 53(1)(e) of the MRA, it cannot apply to all such cases. Whether or not the framework can be applied to a s 53(1)(e) case would depend on the specific factual matrix of the case. Before the Wong Meng Hang framework is applied to any case under s 53(1), care must be taken to analyse the facts and determine if the medical practitioner’s conduct is, or is at least comparable to, professional misconduct: at [55] and [70].Background to the appeal1 Mr Ng Cheng Sea Sheares (“the Patient”) visited Central 24-Hr Clinic (Yishun) (the “Clinic”) complaining of breathlessness. The Patient had a long history of severe asthma and was 45 years old at the time.2 The appellant was the locum doctor on duty in the Clinic. He assessed the Patient to be having an asthma attack, prescribed him some medicine, and then instructed a clinic assistant to administer nebuliser treatment to the Patient. The Patient was seated in a chair while the nebuliser treatment was being administered.3 At some point during the nebuliser treatment, the Patient lost consciousness. The appellant assessed that the Patient was in cardiac arrest and immediately began performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (“CPR”) on the Patient. The Patient remained seated in the chair, unconscious, while the appellant performed CPR on him.4 The appellant continued performing CPR on the Patient until the paramedics arrived. All this while, the Patient had remained in the same seated position on the chair. The paramedics moved the Patient from the chair to the floor in a supine position before starting to perform manual CPR on him. They then transported the Patient from the Clinic to Khoo Teck Phuat Hospital (“KTPH”) while efforts continued to resuscitate him.5 Later, the Patient was transferred to the intensive care unit of KTPH. One week later, the Patient was declared brain dead and passed away while still on life support.6 The Patient’s sister filed a complaint with the respondent, the Singapore Medical Council (“SMC”), alleging that the appellant failed to correctly perform CPR on the Patient.7 Before the Disciplinary Tribunal (the “DT”), the appellant faced a single charge under s 53(1)(e) of the Medical Registration Act 1997 (2014 Rev Ed) (the “MRA”) for failing to provide professional services of the quality that was reasonable to expect of him. The DT found that the appellant should have attempted to transfer the Patient to a supine position on the floor before commencing CPR. The DT convicted the appellant of the charge and sentenced him to a suspension of nine months.DecisionAppeal against conviction8 The test to be applied in s 53(1)(e) cases is stated clearly in the text of the MRA. A medical practitioner has committed a disciplinary offence when he has failed to provide professional services of the quality which is reasonable to expect of him. Despite what the appellant argued, there does not have to be a serious disregard of or persistent failure to meet minimum standards for there to be a breach of s 53(1)(e). There also does not need to be a failure to meet “elementary” clinical standards for there to be liability under s 53(1)(e), insofar as the word “elementary” connotes standards that are lower than standards “reasonably expected” of a practitioner: at [31]–[37].9 There was a consensus between the experts that effective CPR requires the patient to be lying flat on his back on a firm surface. The expert evidence also showed that CPR in a seated position would be ineffective. Further, the Basic Cardiac Life Support (“BCLS”) course manual explicitly states that, for CPR to be effective, the patient must be lying on his or her back on a firm flat surface. At the time of the incident, the appellant held a BCLS certification. It would be reasonable to expect a medical practitioner who had gone through the BCLS course and administered CPR previously to reposition a patient to a supine position, if possible, before performing CPR: at [40]–[46].10 It was possible for the appellant to reposition the Patient to a supine position on the floor before starting CPR. There was clearly enough space given that the paramedics were eventually able to place the Patient on the floor and perform CPR on him. There was also clearly enough manpower for the appellant to reposition the Patient. There were three other individuals in the clinic that could have assisted the appellant. It was not the appellant’s evidence that he had asked any of these individuals to help him move the Patient and that they had refused or told him that they were not able or willing to do so: at [47]–[49].11 The suggestion that a medical practitioner would only be reasonably expected to do what was explicitly stated in the BCLS manual was troubling. The appellant should have known that, as a general rule, he should place a patient in cardiac arrest in a supine position before administering CPR unless there were manpower or spatial constraints preventing him from doing so. The important point was that the BCLS manual did not contain anything which suggested that moving a patient in cardiac arrest was dangerous, and was therefore prohibited or advised against: at [51].12 The fact that the appellant was faced with an emergency could not be a relevant consideration in this context. The very issue concerned what was reasonably expected of a doctor when performing CPR. All cases where a doctor is required to perform CPR will be emergencies. In such situations, doctors are expected to provide emergency care. While the court is cognisant that a doctor dealing with a medical emergency will not have the luxury of long and mature consideration of what the appropriate step to take is, there is nothing onerous about expecting a doctor to reposition a patient to a supine position in an emergency. Making the decision to attempt to reposition the Patient would not need long and mature consideration: at [52].13 Even if the appellant could not reasonably have known whether it was possible to move the Patient or how long it would have taken to do so, one would reasonably expect him to have at least made an attempt before concluding that it was not possible and would have taken too long: at [53].14 Accordingly, the court agreed with the DT’s conclusion that the appellant failed to provide professional services of a quality reasonably expected of him and dismissed his appeal against conviction: at [54].Appeal against sentence 15 In arriving at the nine-month sentence that it imposed on the appellant, the DT used the sentencing framework that was set out in Wong Meng Hang v Singapore Medical Council and other matters [2019] 3 SLR 526 (“Wong Meng Hang”). While it was possible for the Wong Meng Hang framework to apply to some cases under s 53(1)(e) of the MRA, it could not apply to all such cases. Whether or not the framework could be applied to a s 53(1)(e) case would depend on the specific factual matrix of the case. On the facts of this case, the court had some hesitation about applying the Wong Meng Hang framework: at [55].16 The Wong Meng Hang framework was developed to deal with cases under s 53(1)(d) of the MRA. These cases involve professional misconduct. Professional misconduct entails more than mere negligence, professional incompetence or an error of judgment. While negligence can sometimes amount to professional misconduct, it is only cases involving gross negligence that amount to professional misconduct. For an offence under s 53(1)(e) to be made out, there is no need for the doctor involved to have been guilty of professional misconduct. There is an overlap between clinical cases of professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) and offences under s 53(1)(e) of the MRA. In all cases where the conduct of a medical practitioner amounts to professional misconduct, the medical practitioner will undoubtedly have failed to provide professional services of the quality reasonably expected of him. The converse, however, is not true. There will be many cases where a medical practitioner has failed to provide professional services of the quality reasonably expected of him, but where his conduct does not amount to professional misconduct. If the Wong Meng Hang framework were applicable to all cases under s 53(1)(e), it would apply to some cases where there was no professional misconduct and the medical practitioner’s culpability fell short of even the minimum culpability contemplated when the framework was developed. This could not be the correct position: at [65]–[68].17 The Wong Meng Hang framework can provide a useful analytical guide in sentencing for many cases under all limbs of s 53(1). However, there will be certain cases under s 53(1) where the Wong Meng Hang framework is not applicable. It is not appropriate to apply the Wong Meng Hang framework to cases where there is no proof of misconduct. Before the Wong Meng Hang framework is applied to any case under s 53(1), care must be taken to analyse the facts and determine if the medical practitioner’s conduct is, or is at least comparable to, professional misconduct: at [70].18 In the present case, it was common ground that the appellant’s wrongdoing did not amount to professional misconduct. The court therefore had reservations about the DT’s decision to use the Wong Meng Hang framework to determine the appellant’s sentence: at [71].19 Comparing the facts of the present case to the two precedents under s 53(1)(e), the appropriate sentence for the appellant was a suspension of three months: at [72]–[77].20 In any event, had the Wong Meng Hang framework been applied, the court would have arrived at the same sentence. The DT’s finding that harm was on the high-end of the moderate band was incorrect. The appellant’s failure to properly administer CPR to the Patient did not cause the Patient’s death. Rather, the appellant’s failure constituted an omission to provide care which could potentially have saved the Patient’s life, or at the very least increased his chances of survival. The DT’s finding was simply that the appellant’s conduct directly affected the Patient’s chances of survival. This finding was insufficient to support the conclusion of high-moderate harm because it was not accompanied by a finding of how much the appellant’s breach affected the Patient’s chances of survival. Harm is a function of both the injury to the patient and the degree of connection between the doctor’s conduct and that injury. In this case, there was little evidence regarding the extent of the adverse effect of the appellant’s conduct on the Patient’s chances of survival. To justify the DT’s conclusion there would need to be clearer evidence of how much the appellant’s conduct decreased the Patient’s chances of survival: at [78]–[81].21 Therefore, regardless of the sentencing approach used, the court arrived at a sentence of a three-month suspension for the appellant: at [82].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
