
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
6 July 2020
Case summary
Effrizan Kamisran v Public Prosecutor [2020] SGHC 135 
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9053 of 2019/01

 

Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: Court dismisses appellant’s appeal against sentence, holding that sentence is not manifestly excessive. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

Court holds that the exercise of discretion by the Director of the Central Narcotics Bureau (“the Director” and “CNB”) in making an order under s 34 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) does not impinge on the prosecutorial discretion vested in the Attorney-General (“AG”): at [46]. 
Court holds that subsequent prosecutions brought based on the same conduct that led to a drug abuser’s admission into a drug rehabilitation centre (“DRC”) are not generally permissible because these will usually give rise to an abuse of the judicial process and of prosecutorial power: at [54] and [56]. 
Court holds that the Director is not generally required to give reasons for his decision in making a DRC order: at [49] and [50].

 
Background and decision below
1 The appellant, Effrizan Kamisran (“the Appellant”), was arrested in October 2018 on suspicion of committing offences under the MDA. His antecedents rendered him liable for punishment under the long-term imprisonment regime (“LT”), specifically for “LT-2” punishment which was of a longer duration than “LT-1” punishment. 
2 In March 2019, the Appellant pleaded guilty to a repeat LT-2 consumption charge for consumption of methamphetamine under s 8(b)(ii) punishable under s 33A(2) of the MDA; an enhanced possession charge for methamphetamine under s 8(a) punishable under s 33(1) of the MDA; and a possession of utensils charge under s 9 punishable under s 33(1) of the MDA.
3 The District Judge (“the DJ”) sentenced the Appellant to seven years six months’ imprisonment and six strokes of the cane for the first charge, two years’ imprisonment for the second charge, and three months’ imprisonment for the third charge. The sentences for the first and third charges were ordered to run consecutively, resulting in a global sentence of seven years nine months’ imprisonment and six strokes of the cane. Two other charges (an LT-2 charge for consumption of monoacetylmorphine and an enhanced possession charge for diamorphine) were taken into consideration.

Arguments on appeal
 
4 The Appellant appealed against his sentence. While he did not provide any specific reasons why his sentence was manifestly excessive, his skeletal arguments named one Mohamed Salim bin Abdul Aziz (“Salim”), who apparently faced similar charges but was sent for treatment in a DRC instead of being prosecuted. The Appellant had also mentioned Salim in his mitigation plea before the DJ, when he asserted that Salim was “converted to DRC” because he was categorised as a “pure abuser”. According to him, Salim was admitted to a DRC on 12 April 2018 even though his case had been dealt with “before the amendment bill was made”. By the “amendment bill” the Appellant presumably referred to the Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Bill 2019 (“the MDA Bill”), which was passed by Parliament on 15 January 2019. Under the MDA Bill, pure drug abusers who admitted to drug consumption would be admitted to a DRC regardless of how many times they had previously been detained.
5 The Appellant’s reference to Salim’s case and the alleged inconsistent treatment of two seemingly similarly situated offenders raised questions about the exercise of discretion by the Director in deciding whether to make a DRC order, as well as the interaction between the CNB and the AG’s exercise of prosecutorial discretion. The Prosecution was therefore directed to answer these questions:

 (a) What is the nature and scope of the discretion afforded to the Director under s 34(2)(b) of the MDA, and how does this cohere with the power of the AG under Art 35(8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) to direct criminal prosecutions?
 (b) Does the Director have a duty to give reasons for the way in which he exercised his discretion under s 34(2)(b) of the MDA?
 (c) What were the circumstances surrounding the DRC admission of Salim, if there was indeed such an admission?
6 The court directed that a young amicus curiae (“YAC”) be appointed and that parties file further submissions on the above issues. 
7 The Prosecution submitted that: (a) the Director’s exercise of discretion did not interfere with prosecutorial discretion, in view of not only the decision-making process adopted by the relevant agencies, but also how, applying Lim Keng Chia, the AG could still institute criminal proceedings against an individual for the same conduct that led to his DRC admission (a “same-conduct DRC/prosecution” scenario); (b) the Director had no duty to provide reasons for the exercise of his discretion; and (c) Salim’s case was distinguishable from the Appellant’s because there was insufficient evidence to prosecute Salim for drug consumption. 
8 The YAC submitted that: (a) the Director’s exercise of discretion did not interfere with prosecutorial discretion, in view of the decision-making process adopted by the relevant agencies, but Lim Keng Chia was incorrectly decided insofar as it suggested that same-conduct DRC/prosecution scenarios were not an abuse of process; and (b) the Director should not be required to give reasons except in the “exceptional case” where, contrary to the CNB’s prevailing policy, the drug user was not admitted to a DRC even though he was not facing charges for other offences and had admitted to his drug consumption. 
9 The following issues arose for the court’s determination: 

 (a) Was the Appellant’s sentence manifestly excessive?
 (b) What did the Director’s decision-making process for making a DRC order entail, and did it impinge on prosecutorial discretion?
 (c) Did the Director have a duty to give reasons for his decision whether to make a DRC order?
The Court’s decision
 
10 The Appellant’s sentence was not manifestly excessive. The sentence of seven years six months’ imprisonment for the LT-2 charge was appropriate in view of the separate LT-2 charge that was taken into consideration, and the Appellant’s recent antecedents. Nor would running these sentences consecutively offend the totality principle: at [40]. 
11 The only potential issue of concern that was raised by the Appellant was the comparison of his situation with Salim’s. However, the court was satisfied that the Appellant and Salim were not similarly situated, considering their differing urine test results and circumstances of arrest (in particular whether drugs or drug utensils were found on them). The decision to refer the Appellant to prosecution while making a DRC order in respect of Salim was explicable and in line with the CNB’s stated policy: at [42]–[45]. 
12 Having examined, in the course of considering the Appellant’s arguments, the process by which decisions were made to either prosecute a suspected offender or to make a DRC order, the court was satisfied that the Director’s decision-making process as explained by the Prosecution did not impinge on prosecutorial discretion. In all situations, the Prosecution would either have given its authorisation or “standing instructions”, or have the case referred to it by the CNB for it to consider whether to bring a prosecution: at [46]. 
13 There was no need for the Director to give reasons where the decision was made to refer an individual to the AG for him to decide whether to prosecute. The question of the Director giving reasons would not even arise, given that it would not be the Director but the AG who determined how the individual’s case would be dealt with. There was no requirement for the AG to disclose his reasons for making a particular prosecutorial decision: at [49]. 
14 There was, in general, no need to give reasons where the Director decided to make a DRC order in lieu of prosecution. Notwithstanding the loss of liberty that resulted from confinement in a DRC, it was important to consider not only the fact of confinement but also the reason for this. In DRC admission cases, the individual was being sent for treatment rather than punishment. DRC admissions were also contingent upon the presence of qualifying urine test, hair test or medical examination or observation results, as well as an admission to drug consumption in the individual’s statements, such that the individual would know why he was being admitted to a DRC. Finally, such an individual would generally be protected by the abuse of process doctrine from a prosecution being initiated on the basis of the same conduct that had led to his DRC admission: at [50].
15 The court left open the questions of whether there might be other specific grounds or circumstances that might warrant the giving of reasons when the Director made a DRC order, and whether reasons should be given by the Director where an individual was prosecuted despite prima facie qualifying for a DRC admission and where this would appear to be a departure from the general stance of the CNB and the Attorney-General’s Chambers: at [50] and [51].
16 Lim Keng Chia was correctly decided on the double jeopardy point. Because a DRC order was not a prior conviction, the making of a DRC order followed by a prosecution of the offender arising out of the same conduct would not engage the doctrine of double jeopardy: at [53]. 
17 However, Lim Keng Chia was incorrect in so far as it held that same-conduct DRC/prosecutions were permissible or that Parliament never viewed the making of a detention order as a bar to subsequent prosecution of the detainee after his release from the DRC. The initiation of a prosecution after a accused person had been made the subject of a DRC order for the same conduct would likely amount to an abuse of process and of the prosecutorial power, because the criminal process in such circumstances would serve a purpose other than the bona fide prosecution of criminals. Such prosecutions involved the Prosecution proceeding on charges that had been waived pursuant to authority delegated to the CNB by the Prosecution itself. It was not appropriate for the AG, having delegated the discretion in the first instance to the Director and having permitted the Director to deprive the offender of his liberty, to then commence a fresh action alleging that this was not foreclosed by the strict double jeopardy doctrine: at [54] and [56]. 
18 Accordingly, the court dismissed the Appellant’s appeal against sentence: at [58]. 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
