
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 August 2023Case summaryCarlsberg South Asia Pte Ltd v Pawan Kumar Jagetia [2023] SGHC(A) 29Appellate Division of the High Court - Civil Appeal No 52 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division (delivered by Justice Debbie Ong):Outcome: The Appellate Division allowed the appeal of Carlsberg South Asia Pte Ltd (“CSAPL”) in part.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The following principles were relevant for the purposes of contractual interpretation:o First, the court would start by looking to the text that the parties have used.o Second, the court may have regard to the relevant context as long as the relevant contextual points are clear, obvious and known to both parties.o Third, the meaning ascribed to the terms of the contract must be one which the expressions used by the parties could reasonably bear.o Fourth, the exercise of ascertaining what the parties objectively intended would generally be rooted in the context of the contractual purpose. Due consideration would therefore be given to the commercial purpose of the transaction or provision, and, more narrowly, to why a particular obligation was undertaken.o Fifth, while extrinsic evidence could be relied on to aid in the interpretation of a contract, it must go towards proof of what the parties, from an objective viewpoint, ultimately agreed upon. Extrinsic evidence would thus be admissible so long as it was: (i) relevant; (ii) reasonably available to all the contracting parties; and (iii) related to a clear or obvious context: at [23].•  A term may constitute a discrete part of the contract that was divisible from the rest of the contract – this was relevant to the issue of a claim in unjust enrichment as a grounding of such a claim was dependent on a total failure of basis; the total failure of a discrete part of the contract could ground a claim in unjust enrichment: at [86].Background 1 The underlying dispute concerned an employment contract (“the CSAPL Contract”) that was entered into between CSAPL and Mr Pawan Kumar Jagetia (“Mr Jagetia”).2 In the proceedings below, CSAPL sued Mr Jagetia to recover a sum of $367,500 (“the Relocation Sum”) consisting of: (a) an “Annual Benefits Package” of $362,500 and a “Relocation Allowance” of $5,000. CSAPL claimed that the Relocation Sum was paid to Mr Jagetia pursuant to an implied term in the CSAPL Contract that obligated him and his family to relocate to Singapore. CSAPL also sought to recover the Relocation Sum on an alternative claim in unjust enrichment as it alleged that the Relocation Sum was paid to Mr Jagetia on the basis that he and his family would relocate to Singapore. However, this basis had failed since Mr Jagetia and his family did not relocate to Singapore. CSAPL’s claim to recover the Relocation Sum was collectively referred to as “the Relocation Claim”. 3 In response, Mr Jagetia denied that there was an obligation for him to relocate to Singapore and defended his entitlement to the Relocation Sum. He also countersued CSAPL on several grounds. These included: (a) that his employment had been wrongfully terminated by CSAPL (“the Wrongful Termination Claim”); and (b) that CSAPL failed to pay him a short-term incentive (“STI”) that he had earned while employed by another entity within the Carlsberg Group (“the STI Claim”).4 The Judge dismissed the Relocation Claim and allowed the Wrongful Termination Claim and the STI Claim.5 In relation to the Relocation Claim, the Judge found that there was no implied term in the CSAPL Contract that obligated Mr Jagetia to relocate to Singapore. As for the alternative claim in unjust enrichment, the Judge found that the Annual Benefits Package was not tied to Mr Jagetia and his family relocating to Singapore and that CSAPL was therefore not entitled to claim the Annual Benefits Package from Mr Jagetia. While the Judge accepted that the payment of the Relocation Allowance was contingent upon Mr Jagetia and his family’s relocation to Singapore, she held that there was no total failure of consideration as Mr Jagetia had spent a “substantial period” of time in Singapore.  6 In relation to the Wrongful Termination Claim, the Judge held that the CSAPL Contract did not entitle Mr Jagetia’s employment to be terminated for any breach and noted that not every breach entitled the innocent party to terminate a contract. In any event, the Judge observed that none of the breaches alleged by CSAPL, including Mr Jagetia’s failure to relocate with his family, would amount to a repudiatory breach. 7 In relation to the STI Claim, the Judge held that it was CSAPL and not the other entity within the Carlsberg Group that was obligated to pay Mr Jagetia the STI. This was based on the Judge’s interpretation of several clauses of the CSAPL Contract and the contemporaneous evidence. The Judge thus allowed the STI Claim. The Appellate Division’s decision8 The Appellate Division allowed the appeal in relation to the STI Claim and Relocation Claim but did not allow the appeal in relation to the Wrongful Termination Claim: at [106].9 The court held that the following principles would apply in the interpretation of the relevant clauses within the CSAPL Contract:(a) First, the court would start by looking to the text that the parties have used.(b) Second, the court may have regard to the relevant context as long as the relevant contextual points are clear, obvious and known to both parties.(c) Third, the meaning ascribed to the terms of the contract must be one which the expressions used by the parties could reasonably bear.(d) Fourth, the exercise of ascertaining what the parties objectively intended would generally be rooted in the context of the contractual purpose. Due consideration would therefore be given to the commercial purpose of the transaction or provision, and, more narrowly, to why a particular obligation was undertaken.(e) Fifth, while extrinsic evidence could be relied on to aid in the interpretation of a contract, it must go towards proof of what the parties, from an objective viewpoint, ultimately agreed upon. Extrinsic evidence would thus be admissible so long as it was: (i) relevant; (ii) reasonably available to all the contracting parties; and (iii) related to a clear or obvious context: at [23].10 In relation to the STI Claim, the court applied the principles above and held that the clauses in the CSAPL Contract that Mr Jagetia relied on could not be said to impose an obligation on CSAPL to pay the STI. Moreover, the extrinsic evidence relied on by the Judge also could not support the conclusion that CSAPL was obligated to pay the STI to Mr Jagetia. Thus, the court reversed the Judge’s decision in relation to the STI Claim: at [25]–[36], [39]–[40].11 In relation to the Relocation Claim, the court observed that a fundamental antecedent question was whether the Relocation Sum was a discrete part of the CSAPL Contract that was divisible from the total employment package. This question was particularly relevant to the issue of a claim in unjust enrichment for a grounding of such a claim was dependent on a total failure of basis; a partial failure of basis would be insufficient. This necessitated a careful consideration of several clauses within the CSAPL Contract. In particular, the court was of the view that the terms expressed in Clause 1.4 were pertinent: at [44], [49]. 12 After carefully considering the relevant terms of the CSAPL Contract, the court held that the Relocation Sum was included in the CSAPL Contract as an expatriate package for the specific purpose of Mr Jagetia and his family living in Singapore: at [50]–[54], [58], [77].13 This being the case, the court held that Mr Jagetia’s claim in unjust enrichment could be made out. While the court was cognisant that restitutionary principles would ordinarily be supplemental to the law of contract where the parties were in a contractual relationship, the court also noted that the recognised exception where restitution may apply was where there was total failure of consideration. Given that the payment of the Relocation Sum related to a divisible and discrete part of the CSAPL Contract, the court allowed CSAPL’s appeal in unjust enrichment for the Relocation Sum given the failure of Mr Jagetia and his family to relocate: at [83], [86]–[88].14 Having reached the conclusion that CSAPL succeeded in its Relocation Claim in restitution, there was no need for the court to decide on the contractual claim. Nonetheless, the court observed that the contractual claim would fail as there was no “true gap” in the CSAPL Contract as the express words of Clause 1.4 of the CSAPL Contract provided for the situations in which the Relocation Sum could be retained by Mr Jagetia. Thus, the present facts were more accurately understood as a matter of interpretation of the express terms of Clause 1.4 than an exercise of implication of terms by filling “gaps” in the CSAPL Contract: at [91], [93].15 In relation to the Wrongful Termination Claim, the court agreed with the Judge that Clause 11.5 of the CSAPL Contract did not allow CSAPL to terminate Mr Jagetia’s employment for “any breach”. Moreover, the court was also of the view that the breaches that CSAPL alleged were committed by Mr Jagetia were either not committed or did not justify his termination. Thus, the court agreed with the Judge that there was no repudiatory breach of the CSAPL Contract by Mr Jagetia that would have allowed CSAPL to terminate the contract. The Wrongful Termination Claim was thus dismissed: at [101], [104]–[105].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
