
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE8 August 2023Case summaryCVC v CVB [2023] SGHC 28Appellate Division of the High Court - Civil Appeal No 68 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Debbie Ong Siew Ling):Outcome: The Appellate Division of the High Court (the “Court”) allowed in part the appeal against the decision of the High Court Judge pertaining to the value of the matrimonial assets, the division of matrimonial assets, maintenance and costs.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  As proceedings for ancillary matters (“AM”) in respect of the division of assets often involve numerous assets and these proceedings tend to “evolve” as the case progresses, counsel have a crucial role to play in assisting the court to reach a just and equitable division of the assets. While there is some latitude for parties to adjust their position in these proceedings, it is incumbent on the parties or their counsel to apprise the judge of these changes with requisite clarity, rather than to inundate the court with documents that confuse the positions taken. In a similar vein, where it is undisputed by both parties that errors were made in the final calculations, counsel should inform the court of such errors: at [38] to [40].•  Inter-spousal transfers of assets may be made for a myriad of purposes and may be made with or without any intention by the transferor-spouse to permanently divest himself or herself of ownership of the asset. Such transfers may be made with the intention to share the enjoyment of the asset with the other spouse. The transferor-spouse in such a situation may be credited with direct contributions when these funds or assets are used to acquire matrimonial assets: at [72] and [73].•  Central Provident Fund (“CPF”) moneys are matrimonial assets which are liable for division pursuant to s 112 of the Women’s Charter 1961 (the “Women’s Charter”). When a property is sold pursuant to the division order and moneys from the parties’ CPF accounts previously utilised for the acquisition of that property are repaid into their respective CPF accounts as statutorily required, these sums repaid must be taken into account in the calculations of the party’s share of assets he or she is to receive in a division order. Repayment of CPF moneys may be made (1) before dividing the sale proceeds, or (2) after dividing the proceeds and payments are made from each party’s share of the proceeds.  Ultimately, the result in substance should be that the total value of the share received by each party must reflect the final division ratios ordered: at [105] to [107].Background 1 The appellant (the “Wife”) and the respondent (the “Husband”) were married on 3 January 2008. They have three children (the “Children”). The Husband commenced divorce proceedings against the Wife in April 2017, and an Interim Judgment (“IJ”) of divorce was granted on 9 May 2018. The AM hearings pertaining to the custody, care and control of the Children, the division of matrimonial assets, and maintenance for the Children were heard by the Judge in three tranches on 8 March, 22 June and 27 June 2022. The Judge made her orders on 27 June 2022, and issued her grounds of decision (the “GD”) on 29 December 2022.2 In her determination of the pool of matrimonial assets, the Judge made the following findings (amongst others): a. The Judge agreed with the Husband’s submission that in April 2008, he had transferred a sum of $400,000 to the Wife as a loan (the “2008 Transfer”) in order for her to purchase “Citibank bonds” with a view to using the proceeds to finance properties in the parties’ joint names. As such, the Judge attributed as the Husband’s direct contributions (a) the Wife’s non-CPF contributions to the acquisition of the parties’ flat in Bishan (the “Bishan Property”); and (b) the Wife’s contributions to the acquisition of a shop unit at Concorde Shopping Centre jointly-owned by the parties (the “Concorde Unit”).b. The Family Court had directed a valuation of the three car workshop businesses (the “Car Workshop Businesses”) over which the Husband was the director and controlling shareholder. The independent valuer was GAO Advisors Pte Ltd (“GAO Advisors”), who provided the court with a valuation report (“GAO’s Report”). While the Judge agreed with the valuation arrived at in GAO’s Report, she held that a discount for lack of marketability (“DLOM”) should have been applied to the valuation of one of the Husband’s companies (referred to as “JJ”) even though the GAO’s Report did not use a DLOM. As such, the Judge arrived at a valuation of the Car Workshop Businesses at $886,478.50 after applying a 25% DLOM to JJ.c. The Husband claimed that the Wife failed to account for the proceeds of the sale of two tranches of shares which were valued at $227,882.36 and US$54,988.49 respectively. The Wife only conceded to failing to account for $204,188.67 in the former tranche but accepted the Husband’s claim for the latter tranche. The Judge held in favour of the Husband.d. The Judge drew an adverse inference against the Wife for the non-disclosure of her assets. The Judge found that the Wife’s substantial earning power over the years suggested that she would have more assets than what she had declared. She also found that it was fair to accord both parties an equal ratio for their indirect contributions.e. The Judge ordered the sale of the Bishan Property and Concorde Unit, and the division of the sales proceeds of these properties in the ratio of 98:2 in favour of the Husband. Both parties were to retain their sole assets.3 With respect to the maintenance for the Children, the Judge held that the Husband was to pay the Children’s maintenance in the sum of $2,700 monthly (apportioned equally to each child) from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023; and thereafter a monthly sum of $3,600. She arrived at this result by first noting that the parties had agreed that the Children’s monthly expenses totalled $7,797.71. The Judge also rejected the Wife’s claim against the Husband for backdated maintenance. As for costs, the Judge ordered that the Wife was to pay the Husband $11,840 as partial reimbursement of the Husband’s disbursements.4 The Wife appealed against the Judge’s decision on the value of the matrimonial pool, the division of the matrimonial assets, maintenance, and costs.The Court’s Judgment Value of the pool of matrimonial assets Computational Errors5 The Wife highlighted three computational errors in the Judge’s findings: a. First, she argued that the Judge had found that the joint value of the Bishan Property and the Concorde Unit was $1,266,325.94 (at [121] of the GD). This was despite the parties agreeing that the Bishan Property and the Concorde Unit was $560,028.26 and $660,000, which totals $1,220,028.26 instead (the “Joint Assets Error”). b. Second, the Judge’s final ratios at [121] of the GD do not amount to 100% (the “Final Ratio Error”). c. Third, the Wife submitted, and the Husband agreed that the Judge had erroneously attributed in her computation of the Husband’s solely acquired assets a “Honda [valued at] $75,000” at [125] of the GD (the “Vehicle Error”). The Court accepted that the Judge had erred in this regard: at [20] and [36].6 The Court held that the Joint Assets Error and Final Ratio Error did not represent the Judge’s final determination on the value of the matrimonial pool. While it did appear that the Judge had “accept[ed]” outdated figures at [121] of the GD, it was clear from a closer examination of the GD that her final calculations were set out at [125] of the GD instead. As such, the Joint Assets Error and Final Ratio Error were not material errors for present purposes: at [23] to [35].7 Addressing the computational errors generally, the Court observed that the figures presented before the Judge over the course of the AM hearings were confusing, with the finalised figures only presented to the Judge at the third and final tranche. Further, neither party informed the court of the typographical/computational errors following the issue of the GD, and no attempt was made to seek clarification on the GD despite the fact that the parties were confused or at least unclear about various aspects of the decision on appeal. The Court thus emphasised the role of counsel in assisting the court in reaching a just and equitable result in AM proceedings. While there is latitude for parties to adjust their position in AM proceedings, it is incumbent on the parties or their counsel to apprise the judge of these changes with requisite clarity, rather than inundate the court with yet more documents that confuse the positions taken: [37] to [40]. 8 The Judge’s approach in making conclusive orders on the division of matrimonial assets on 27 June 2022 before finally ascertaining the total value of the matrimonial pool through correspondence with the parties in December 2022 involved an error in principle. The total pool of matrimonial assets ought to have been identified and valued before the structured approach in ANJ v ANK [2015] 4 SLR 1043 could be undertaken: [41] and [44].The application of a DLOM to JJ9 In the assessing the evidence by a court-appointed valuer, the court may intervene where the court-appointed valuer does not act in accordance with his terms of reference, or if his valuation is patently or manifestly in error. The Court found that GAO Advisor’s decision not to apply a DLOM to the valuation of JJ was not made in patent or manifest error. The Court agreed with the Wife that the Judge should not have applied a DLOM to the valuation of JJ, and adopted the aggregate valuation of the Car Workshop Companies advanced in GAO’s Report of $1,079,816: [45] to [52].The allegedly dissipated moneys10 The Wife argued that the Judge had erroneously attributed an amount of $23,693.69 as having been dissipated. The Wife submitted that this sum had already been returned to her ‘POEMs Account’ at or around 16 November 2020, which account she had fully disclosed in the AM proceedings. The Husband submitted that the pool of assets should be ascertained at the date of IJ, ie, 9 May 2018, and thus the return of the sum to the Wife’s POEMs account could not be taken into consideration: [53] and [54].11 The Court agreed with the Wife that the Judge had erred in her determination that the Wife had dissipated the sum of $23,693.69. The Husband had in his First Joint Summary relied on a bank statement (which included the POEMs Account) by the Wife dated 30 April 2021, with the parties agreeing by the final AM hearing that the POEMs Account should be valued at this date. There would be a double-counting of the sum of $23,693.79 if it was notionally added into the pool as a dissipated sum when the same sum had already been included in the Wife’s POEMS Account in April 2021. As both parties had used the value of the balance in the account in April 2021 even though the IJ date was in May 2018, the Court did not disturb this valuation: [56].12 In light of the above, the Court found that the value of the matrimonial pool was adjusted from $4,123,349.53 to $4,292,992.84: at [58] and [59].Division of matrimonial assetsDirect contributions ratio: the 2008 Transfer Issue13 Following her finding that the Husband had made the 2008 Transfer as a loan to the Wife, the Judge attributed $140,250 and $85,793.35 of the Wife’s payments to the Bishan Property (the “Bishan Payment”) and Concorde Unit (the “Concorde Payment”) respectively as the Husband’s direct contributions towards these assets. The Wife submitted instead that the 2008 Transfer was a gift from the Husband, and further argued that the Husband did not satisfactorily establish the evidential link between the 2008 Transfer and the Bishan Payment and Concorde Payment: at [62] and [63].14 The Court found that there was sufficient linkage between the 2008 Transfer and the Bishan Payment, but little evidence to support any linkage between the 2008 Transfer and the Concorde Payment: at [65] to [71].15 In terms of the nature of the 2008 Transfer, the Court observed that both parties seemed to think that there were only two possibilities: that the 2008 Transfer was a gift, or a loan. However, there was a third possibility in the context of inter-spousal transfers of money – sharing. The Husband had made the 2008 Transfer with the intention of sharing those funds with the Wife. Both parties appear to have regarded the $400,000 as moneys to be applied to acquiring joint assets and the common use of the family expenses: at [72] to [77]. The Methodology Issue16 The Wife averred that the Judge had in fact applied the classification methodology in reaching her ratios of division when she purported to apply the global assessment methodology. The Court rejected this ground of the Wife’s appeal, noting that the Judge’s order that the sale proceeds of the Bishan Property and the Concorde Unit be divided in certain proportions was not an application of any particular methodology, but rather the means by which the order on the division of matrimonial assets was to be effected. This was a consequential order that gave effect to the Judge’s overall decision on the division of assets: at [82].Indirect Contributions Issue17 The Wife also submitted that the Judge erred in attributing an equal ratio to the parties’ indirect contributions, contending that a ratio of 75:25 in her favour was the correct result. The Court rejected this ground of the Wife’s appeal. In ascertaining the ratio of indirect contributions, the court does not place undue focus on the minutiae of family life, but looks instead to broad factual indicators such as the length of marriage, the number of children, and which spouse was the primary caregiver of the children. On the facts, there was nothing to suggest that one party had contributed significantly more such as to render the Judge’s determination unreasonable: at [85] to [86].Adverse Inference Issue18 Adverse inferences are drawn to counter the effects of one party’s non-disclosure of assets which diminish the value of the matrimonial pool. The court may draw an adverse inference for failure to disclose where it is shown that (a) there is a substratum of evidence that establishes a prima facie case against the person against whom the inference is to be drawn; and (b) that person must have had some particular access to the information he is said to be hiding: at [89] to [91].19 The Court found that the Judge had erred in drawing an adverse inference against the Wife. On the evidence, it could not be said that the disparity between the Wife’s annual income and her disclosed assets were so great as to suggest a prima facie case of non-disclosure. While the Wife had engaged in a belated disclosure of assets, there was no evidence to suggest a non-disclosure of the same: at [94] to [97].20 In the round, the Court found that the final ratio of division was 58:42 in favour of the Husband: at [101].Unworkability Issue21 The Wife submitted that the Judge’s order regarding the sale of the Bishan Property and Concorde Unit was unworkable. In this regard, she averred that the parties’ respective CPF contributions for the Bishan Property should be refunded before the net sale proceeds were divided in the proportions ordered by the Judge, citing the case of WBI v WBJ [2023] 3 SLR 998 (“WBI”): at [103].22 The Court noted the general position that CPF contributions applied by each party towards the acquisition of matrimonial property were matrimonial assets and liable for division pursuant to s 112 of the Women’s Charter. When a property is sold and moneys from the parties’ CPF accounts previously utilised for the acquisition of that property are repaid into their respective CPF accounts as statutorily required, these sums repaid must be taken into account in the calculations of the party’s share of assets he or she is to receive in a division order. Repayment of CPF moneys may be made (1) before dividing the sale proceeds, or (2) after dividing the proceeds and payments are made from each party’s share of the proceeds. To the extent that WBI stands for the proposition that the “repayment of CPF monies should always be paid before [the] division of sale proceeds” (at [10]), this was incorrect. Ultimately, the result in substance should be that the total value of the share received by each party must reflect the final division ratios ordered: at [105] to [107].Maintenance for the children23 As for maintenance for the Children, the Wife submitted that the Judge erred in: (i) the quantification of the maintenance payable by the Husband for the Children and (ii) failing to order the Husband to pay backdated maintenance for the Children. Both parties agreed that the Judge had erred in finding that they had agreed to a sum of $7,797.71 as the Children’s monthly expenses. The Court found that the Children’s monthly expenses amounted to $14,000 a month. The Husband was ordered to pay a monthly sum of $4,600 in maintenance for the Children: at [110] to [112].24 The Court held that the Husband should pay backdated maintenance for the Children. It considered it relevant that the Husband did not make any maintenance payments from April 2017 onward. On the other hand, the Wife made no attempts at communicating with the Husband on the matter of maintenance. While parties should not be faulted for waiting until the AM hearing before seeking maintenance before the court, it is quite another thing for there to be no genuine attempts made at communicating with the other spouse. This is further compounded by the fact that there were strong indications that the Wife was distancing the Children from the Husband. It was apparent therefore that both parents had strayed from their duty as co-parents to mutually cooperate in caring for their children. In terms of the quantum of maintenance, the Court was cognisant that ordering the payment of a sum that was too sudden and too large may be unduly onerous. In light of this ‘snowball’ effect, the Court ordered the Husband to pay two years’ backdated maintenance, which amounted to $110,400: at [113] to [117].Costs25 The Court rejected the Wife’s appeal against the costs order below as there were no grounds to disturb the Judge’s costs orders: at [118]. 26 No order was made on the costs of appeal although the Wife succeeded on the majority of the issues, because many of the issues could have been resolved with clarifications before the Judge; and the case was unnecessarily complicated by confusing materials and joint summaries: at [121].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
