
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 July 2023Case summaryMuhammad Hamir B Laka v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGCA 23--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses drug trafficker’s appeal against conviction and sentence. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The defence of necessity is codified in s 81 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “Penal Code”). There are two limbs to be satisfied: the accused person must have (a) done an act that he knew was likely to cause harm (the “subject act”) and (b) done the subject act in good faith and for the purpose of preventing or avoiding other harm (the “avoidance of harm purpose”). These are the “two requirements”.•  The defence will not avail where the accused person engages in deliberate or premeditated criminal conduct or the deliberate and wilful infliction of harm. •  To avail of the defence, the offender must have acted in good faith and must have assessed the risk that inhered in the subject act and the justification for running that risk with due care and attention, though this will be considered having regard to the circumstances he was in.•  The defence may in principle be invoked if the offender has the oblique intention (meaning the intention that is ascribed to a person in respect of an effect or result that will be virtually certain to result from his voluntary act, even though he may not have had any specific desire to achieve that result) to cause some harm but acted solely for the purpose of avoiding much greater harm.•  The harm to be avoided must reasonably be apprehended to (a) be imminent; (b) be more likely and more serious than the harm risked by the subject act; and (c) leave the accused person with no reasonable legal alternative course to take.•  When challenging the integrity of the chain of custody of the drug exhibits, it is unhelpful to solely focus on discrepancies in the weights recorded by the investigating officer at the time of seizure and that recorded by the Health Sciences Authority (“HSA”) at the time of analysis (the “Weight Discrepancies”) without explaining how the discrepancies may lead a court to infer that there was a break in the chain of custody. Background to the appeal1 The appellant was convicted by a judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”) of having in his possession for the purpose of trafficking, 39.71g of diamorphine (the “Drugs”), an offence under the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed). The Judge sentenced the appellant to the mandatory death penalty. The appellant appealed against both his conviction and sentence.  2 The appellant raised three main grounds of appeal. First, he submitted that the defence of necessity under s 81 of the Penal Code was made out because he had only trafficked in the Drugs in order to raise funds to pay for his wife’s medical bills. The appellant had been working part-time to deliver items, but struggled to support his family financially when the volume of work reduced. Around this time, his wife developed diabetic symptoms, for which she subsequently underwent surgery. The appellant thus decided to traffic in the Drugs in order to raise funds to pay for his wife’s medical bills. According to him, he had no other sources of funds and was solely responsible for his wife’s medical expenses. 3 Second, the appellant contended that there was a break in the chain of custody of the drug exhibits. In support of this contention, he raised the issue of the Weight Discrepancies, among other arguments.  4 Third, the appellant argued that in view of certain purported inaccuracies in the statements recorded from him (the “Recorded Statements”), a conviction that relied on these statements for the purpose of proving the elements of the offence was unsafe.    The Court’s decision5 The Court was satisfied that each of the grounds raised by the appellant pertained to matters that had been raised below and considered by the Judge. The Court agreed with the Judge’s conclusions and found the grounds of appeal to be without merit: at [13].6 First, the Court affirmed the Judge’s ruling that the appellant could not avail of the defence of necessity: at [46].7 For an accused person to avail of the defence of necessity under s 81 of the Penal Code, the two requirements (as stated above) must be satisfied. The two requirements are to be weighed against each other so that what would normally be unjustifiable (ie, carrying out the subject act) may in certain circumstances be excused because it is done for the avoidance of harm purpose (ie, to prevent or avoid imminent injury or harm of such gravity to others that it justifies or excuses the risk of doing the subject act): at [26] and [27].8 As relates to the state of mind with which the subject act is carried out, there is an important distinction between the “knowledge that [the act] is likely to cause harm” and the “criminal intention to cause harm”. Section 81 of the Penal Code does not provide an excuse or justification for acts carried out with the latter state of mind: at [31] and [32]. 9 Further, the subject act must have been done “in good faith to avoid or prevent other harm to person or property” [emphasis added], as stated in s 81 of the Penal Code. This means that the assessment of the risk of the subject act, and the purpose and justification for running that risk must have been done with due care and attention given the circumstances that the accused person was in: at [33].10 The illustrations to s 81 of the Penal Code demonstrate that the defence of necessity is only available within certain circumscribed parameters. The defence may be available where the accused person is faced with a set of circumstances that compel her to commit the offending act, and run the risk of some harm ensuing as opposed to the certainty of imminent and much greater harm that would otherwise ensue. The accused person therefore acts solely for the avoidance of harm purpose and does not harbour the intention to cause harm, save where this is an oblique intention. The defence of necessity will not avail where the accused person engages in premeditated criminal conduct or the deliberate and wilful infliction of harm: at [36] and [37].11 In the present case, the appellant had made a deliberate, premeditated decision to traffic the Drugs. It was therefore clear that he could not avail of the defence of necessity. However, even leaving aside the legal hurdles, on the facts, the appellant failed to adduce the type of evidence that would have been needed to enable him to mount the defence. The Court therefore affirmed the Judge’s ruling that the appellant could not avail of the defence of necessity: at [44] and [46].12 Second, the Court affirmed the Judge’s finding that the Prosecution had established the chain of custody beyond a reasonable doubt. The Court observed that the appellant’s arguments pertaining to the chain of custody issue were the same ones that had been canvassed before the Judge, who had considered each in detail and rejected them. The Court was in broad agreement with the Judge and saw no reason to disturb the Judge’s findings: at [57].13 Importantly, the Court observed that counsel for the appellant seemed to approach the issue of the Weight Discrepancies from the perspective that proving the integrity of the chain of custody required a perfect match between the two sets of recorded weights. The Court rejected this approach and emphasised the different goals of each weighing process: at the point of seizure, the investigating officers seek to preserve the original state of the drug exhibits, which will eventually be examined during the trial; at the point of analysis, the HSA seeks to ascertain, with scientifically acceptable accuracy, the specific amount of a controlled drug that is contained in the package, having regard to the fact that this will often be mixed with other material. It is therefore unhelpful to focus on the discrepancies in weight without explaining how the discrepancies may lead a court to infer that there is a break in the chain of custody: at [50].14 Finally, the Court affirmed the Judge’s finding that the purported inaccuracies in the Recorded Statements were minor and did not raise a reasonable doubt as to the accuracy of the statements that went towards proving the elements of the offence. The Court was in broad agreement with the Judge and saw no reason to disturb the Judge’s finding: at [58].15 For these reasons, the Court dismissed the appeal: at [59].    This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
