
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 July 2023Case summaryRamesh Vangal v Indian Overseas Bank and another matter [2023] SGHC(A) 25Civil Appeal No 8 of 2023 and Originating Application No 6 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):Outcome: AD dismisses the appeal and application, affirming the decision of the Judge of the General Division (the “Judge”) that the court should not exercise its discretion to set aside a registration order for a foreign judgment, or grant a further adjournment of the setting-aside application or to stay execution.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  Drawing the threads from the foreign authorities, and also considering the factors applied by the Judge below, the following principles were derived on how a Singapore court should exercise its discretion under s 6(1) of the Reciprocal Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Act (Cap 265, 2001 Rev Ed) (“REFJA”): (a) The court must have regard to the interests of the judgment creditor in the fruits of its success, balanced against the interests of the judgment debtor that the foreign appeal is not rendered nugatory. (b) The court should examine whether there would be excessive delays occasioned to the judgment creditor in enforcement. (c) The court should factor in any offer by the judgment debtor to provide security. (d) The court should consider how readily the judgment debtor will be able to recover the judgment sums paid over if the registered judgment is enforced and the foreign appeal then subsequently allowed. (e) The court should be satisfied, in relation to the foreign appeal, that it is a bona fide one that is or will be prosecuted with due diligence. (f) It is inappropriate for the Singapore court to assess the merits of the appeal pending in the foreign court: at [44].Background 1 The present case arose out of HC/OS 1054/2019 (“OS 1054”), which was an ex parte application by the respondent, Indian Overseas Bank (“IOB”), to register a judgment from the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (“Hong Kong”) in Singapore. The registration order was successfully obtained by way of HC/ORC 5731/2019 (“ORC 5731”). In the underlying case, the Hong Kong Court of First Instance (“HKCFI”) previously held that the appellant, Mr Ramesh Vangal (“Mr Vangal”), and other defendants were jointly and severally liable to IOB for the sum of about CAD$9.6m and about US$137,000 with interest on those sums (the “HK Judgment”). 2 The defendants, including Mr Vangal, had filed an appeal against the HK Judgment to the Hong Kong Court of Appeal (the “HK Appeal”). Mr Vangal also filed an application in the HKCFI to stay the execution of the HK Judgment (the “First HK Stay Application”) pending the HK Appeal being determined.3 Thereafter, Mr Vangal made an application in Singapore to set aside ORC 5731 in HC/SUM 2662/2021 (“SUM 2662”). Mr Vangal relied on procedural and substantive grounds to set aside ORC 5731. The first procedural ground was that IOB had failed to comply with O 67 r 3(4) of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (the “ROC 2014”) as IOB failed to adduce evidence of the enforceability by execution of the HK Judgment in its country of origin, ie, Hong Kong. The second procedural ground was that IOB breached its duty of full and frank disclosure as IOB had not disclosed that Mr Vangal had successfully set aside a statutory demand issued by IOB in Singapore, because IOB had not yet registered the HK Judgment in Singapore under the REFJA at that time. The substantive ground of challenge was that ORC 5731 should be set aside or stayed pursuant to s 6(1) of the REFJA on the basis that the HK Appeal and also the First HK Stay Application were pending in Hong Kong. Alternatively, Mr Vangal argued that the hearing of SUM 2662 should be adjourned pending the HK Appeal.4  SUM 2662 was heard by an assistant registrar (“AR”) of the Singapore Supreme Court who decided to adjourn the hearing of SUM 2662 pending the disposal of the HK Appeal. The AR also granted a stay of execution of ORC 5731.5 IOB appealed against the AR’s decision and the Judge hearing the appeal varied the period of adjournment of SUM 2662 to sometime after the First HK Stay Application was disposed of, instead of after the HK Appeal was disposed of. When the First HK Stay Application was dismissed by the Hong Kong court, Mr Vangal filed a renewed application in Hong Kong once more to stay the execution of the Hong Kong judgment (the “Second HK Stay Application”). Thereafter, Mr Vangal filed another application in Singapore by way of HC/SUM 4456/2022 (“SUM 4456”) for a further adjournment of SUM 2662 and a stay of execution of ORC 5731.6 The Judge heard SUM 4456 and SUM 2662 together, and decided to dismiss both applications. Mr Vangal then filed the present appeal in AD/CA 8/2023 (“AD 8”) against the dismissal of SUM 2662; and also filed an application for permission to appeal in AD/OA 6/2023 (“OA 6”) against the dismissal of SUM 4456.Decision Permission to appeal in OA 67 It was incorrect for Mr Vangal to assume that the Judge should have granted an adjournment of SUM 2662 simply because the Second HK Stay Application was pending, and that the failure to grant the adjournment amounted to prejudging the Second HK Stay Application. Mr Vangal conveniently omits to highlight that the First HK Stay Application was already dismissed in Hong Kong, and that this should be given weight in the exercise of discretion: at [48] and [49].8 There was no good reason for the Judge to grant another adjournment pending the Second HK Stay Application when no new reasons were provided beyond the mere existence of the renewed application, and especially when Mr Vangal had failed to give any assurance to the Judge that that application would be heard soon: at [51].9 Mr Vangal failed to show that when the Judge decided not to grant an adjournment of SUM 2662, there was an error of law or an exceptional error of fact. The Judge correctly exercised his discretion not to adjourn as: (a) Mr Vangal made no offer of security despite the Judge mentioning this as a factor to be considered in any fresh application for a further adjournment for SUM 2662, (b) Mr Vangal would have no difficulty in recovering any sum paid over to IOB as IOB was a well-established bank with a presence in Hong Kong, and (c) there would be significant delays occasioned to IOB in enforcement as the HK Appeal has been outstanding for a few years and the Second HK Stay Application may not be heard for quite some time: at [52].10 There was no question of importance upon which further argument and a decision of a higher tribunal would be to the public advantage. The question framed by Mr Vangal was incorrect as the Judge considered other factors beyond the uncertainty surrounding when the Hong Kong proceedings would be resolved or that these would take a longer time than in Singapore to be heard: at [55] and [56].The appeal in AD 8 11 IOB’s omission to adduce evidence (as required under O 67 r 3(4) of the ROC 2014) that the HK Judgment was enforceable in Hong Kong at the time of applying for registration of the HK Judgment in Singapore was a curable non-compliance. There was nothing to suggest that there was bad faith on the part of IOB in this omission and this was likely an inadvertent mistake. IOB would not have intentionally made an error which was against its own interest. There was no utility to be gained in setting aside ORC 5731 only to require IOB to apply once more to register the HK Judgment, especially when both sides (and their experts) were in agreement and did not dispute its enforceability: at [62] to [66].12 Concerning IOB’s duty to make full and frank disclosure, the failure to disclose that Mr Vangal had successfully set aside a statutory demand issued by IOB was not material. The outcome of the setting aside of the statutory demand did not impugn upon the validity of the underlying HK Judgment and neither was it the case that the HK Judgment could not be registered in future. It was not as if IOB was trying to hide an adverse fact prejudicial to its application. The failure to disclose IOB’s delay in registering the HK Judgment was also not material as this would have been plain and apparent: at [67] to [69].13 The court then addressed the substantive issue of whether there was any basis to challenge the Judge’s exercise of discretion under s 6(1) of the REFJA to dismiss SUM 2662. Mr Vangal’s assertion that the Judge implicitly criticised the Hong Kong court system on the time it took for matters to be heard, was rejected. In deciding whether to adjourn the setting aside application or to set aside the registration of a foreign judgment, the court was entitled to consider the time required for proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction to be determined, and hence, this does not constitute an unwarranted criticism of foreign proceedings: at [70] to [72].14 Contrary to Mr Vangal’s arguments, the Judge did not make an assessment of the merits of the HK Appeal that was pending and did not consider the strength of Mr Vangal’s appeal in making his decision. Even if the Judge had misread Mr Vangal’s affidavit on a certain point, that was of no real consequence as it was a fleeting remark and did not suggest that the Judge had any negative perception of the merits of the HK Appeal: at [73] and [74].15 The Judge was justified in taking into account the absence of any offer of security in denying a further adjournment and also in refusing to set aside ORC 5731. There would be prejudice occasioned to IOB if a further adjournment was granted by the court. On the other hand, Mr Vangal would in all likelihood have no difficulty in recovering from IOB any sum paid over in the event of the HK Appeal succeeding as IOB was a major Indian nationalised bank with branches in Hong Kong: at [77] and [78].16 While it was indeed relevant for the court to consider whether the judgment debtor may suffer irremediable harm if no adjournment was granted, Mr Vangal had not demonstrated what prejudice he would face other than the usual consequences of having to face enforcement. Neither had he elaborated on his assets and means, both in the proceedings in Hong Kong and in Singapore: at [80].17 Whilst Mr Vangal argued that any delay in the hearing of the HK Appeal was attributable to IOB, at this stage of appellate intervention, it was not possible for this court to determine who was responsible for delaying the hearing of the HK Appeal. Nevertheless, the court observed that it would not have been in the interest of IOB to delay the hearing of the HK Appeal, that it was for Mr Vangal to deploy any argument that IOB was intentionally delaying the hearing of the HK Appeal before the courts in Hong Kong, and Mr Vangal does not claim that he was unable to obtain the assistance of the Hong Kong courts: at [83].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
