
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE7 July 2023Case summaryHow Weng Fan and others v Sengkang Town Council and other appeals [2023] SCGA 21Civil Appeals Nos 196 to 200 of 2019---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: The Court of Appeal finds Ms Sylvia Lim (“Ms Lim”), Mr Low Thia Khiang (“Mr Low”), Ms How Weng Fan (“Ms How”), and Mr Danny Loh (“Mr Loh”), but not Mr Pritam Singh (“Mr Singh”), Mr Chua Zhi Hon (“Mr Chua”) and Mr Kenneth Foo (“Mr Foo”), liable to Aljunied-Hougang Town Council (“AHTC”) in negligence for permitting the control failures to persist in AHTC’s payments process (the “System”).Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where the material facts of each element of the legal claim had been pleaded, albeit in support of a different legal conclusion than that which was subsequently advanced, the court will be more inclined to allow the legal claim unless there was clear evidence that the defendant will be unduly prejudiced. It will generally be for the party resisting the reformulated claim to show such prejudice: at [29(a)].•  Where the material facts of each element of the legal claim had not been pleaded, the court will only allow the legal claim if the court was satisfied that there will be no prejudice occasioned as a result because both sides had engaged with the issue at trial. It will generally be for the party advancing the unpleaded claim to show that there was no prejudice and this could be shown, for instance, by establishing that the issue was raised in evidence, it was clearly appreciated by the other party, and no reasonable objections were taken at the trial to such evidence being led and the point in question being put into issue: at [29(b)].•  AHTC pleaded the material facts of each element of a claim in negligence against Mr Low, Ms Lim, Mr Loh, and Ms How for permitting the control failures to persist in the System, and there was no prejudice in the court finding these four individuals liable for the tort of negligence for permitting the control failures to exist in the System: at [47] and [48].•  As for Mr Singh, Mr Chua and Mr Foo, the Court of Appeal found that AHTC did not run any case against them regarding the System, and it would unduly prejudice them for the court to now find them liable to AHTC in tort for breach of duty in permitting the control failures to exist in the System: at [54].Background1 In How Weng Fan and others v Sengkang Town Council and other appeals [2022] SGCA 72 (the “Judgment”), the Court of Appeal delivered its judgment on the substantive merits of the appeals (the “Appeals”) concerning the liability of members and senior employees of Aljunied-Hougang Town Council (“AHTC”) to AHTC and subsequently to Sengkang Town Council (“STC”). These members are Ms Sylvia Lim (“Ms Lim”), Mr Low Thia Khiang (“Mr Low”), Mr Pritam Singh (“Mr Singh”), Mr Chua Zhi Hon (“Mr Chua”) and Mr Kenneth Foo (“Mr Foo”) (collectively, the “Town Councillors”). The senior employees are Ms How Weng Fan (“Ms How”) and Mr Danny Loh (“Mr Loh”) (collectively, the “Employees”).2 In the Judgment, the Court of Appeal reversed several of the trial Judge’s factual findings and legal conclusions. Among other things, the Court of Appeal held that the Town Councillors and Employees did not owe fiduciary or equitable duties to AHTC. The Court of Appeal also held that they had acted in good faith in the award of various contracts on behalf of AHTC. However, the Court of Appeal held that the Town Councillors and Employees were grossly negligent in implementing AHTC’s payments process (the “System”), which led to the persistence of what were referred to by parties as “control failures” in the System. Specifically, this arose from the involvement of conflicted persons in processing payments to FM Solutions & Services Pte Ltd (“FMSS”) and FM Solutions & Integrated Services (“FMSI”) and the absence of safeguards, which together created a risk of overpayments being made. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal held that Ms Lim was liable in negligence for AHTC’s award of a contract to Red-Power Electrical Engineering Pte Ltd (“Red-Power”), having failed to discharge her burden of proof that she had acted in good faith when she chose not to renew the contracts with Digo Corporation Pte Ltd and Terminal 9 Pte Ltd which offered the same services at significantly cheaper rates.3 At [455] and [485] of the Judgment, the Court of Appeal directed the parties to file further written submissions to address two issues arising out of what appeared to be AHTC’s inadequate pleadings on the following two areas (the “Outstanding Issues”):a) The control failures in the System: First, in relation to the control failures in the system, AHTC’s pleaded case was that the relevant acts constituted a breach of fiduciary duties. However, AHTC did not plead that the Town Councillors had breached their duty of skill and care in tort and were negligent in implementing the payments process, leading to the control failures in the System. The question in these circumstances was what orders (on liability and apportionment) the Court of Appeal could make in respect of this claim. The Court of Appeal referred to this as the “Control Failures Issue”. b) The award of a contract to Red-Power: Second, in relation to the finding that Ms Lim breached her duty of skill and care in tort and was negligent in causing AHTC to award a new contract to Red-Power, it appeared that AHTC did not plead this claim. In the circumstances, how, if at all, should liability between AHTC and STC be apportioned on this issue? The Court of Appeal referred to this as the “Red-Power Issue”.The Court of Appeal’s decisionThe legal principles 4 The general rule was that the parties were bound by their pleadings and the court was precluded from deciding matters that had not been put into issue by the parties. There were two important principles that qualified the foregoing principle. First, only material facts supporting each element of a legal claim needed to be pleaded (the “Material Facts Principle”). On this basis, the particular legal result flowing from the material facts that the claimant wished to pursue need not be pleaded. Equally, the relevant propositions or inferences of law need not be pleaded: at [18] and [19].5 Second, a narrow exception existed where the court may permit an unpleaded point to be raised (and to be determined) if there was no irreparable prejudice caused to the other party in the trial that could not be compensated by costs or where it would be clearly unjust for the court not to do so (the “Prejudice Principle”): at [20].6 The legal principles on pleadings may be summarised as follows: a) Where the material facts of each element of the legal claim had been pleaded, albeit in support of a different legal conclusion than that which was subsequently advanced, the court will be more inclined to allow the legal claim unless there was clear evidence that the defendant will be unduly prejudiced. It will generally be for the party resisting the reformulated claim to show such prejudice: at [29(a)].b) Where the material facts of each element of the legal claim had not been pleaded, the court will only allow the legal claim if the court was satisfied that there will be no prejudice occasioned as a result because both sides engaged with the issue at trial. It will generally be for the party advancing the unpleaded claim to show that there was no prejudice and this could be shown, for instance, by establishing that the issue was raised in evidence, it was clearly appreciated by the other party, and no reasonable objections were taken at the trial to such evidence being led and the point in question being put into issue: at [29(b)].Red-Power Issue7 AHTC accepted that it did not plead a claim against Ms Lim regarding the award of a new contract to Red-Power, and AHTC confirmed that it did not pray for an order in its favour in respect of this claim made by STC. It followed that Ms Lim was liable only to STC in relation to the award of the contract to Red-Power: at [14].The Control Failures IssueMr Low, Ms Lim, Ms How, and Mr Loh8 The elements of the tort of negligence were well-established: there must be a (a) duty of care that had been (b) breached by the defendant, and this breach must have (c) caused the plaintiff damage. AHTC did plead, albeit loosely, that Mr Low and Ms Lim had set up the “flawed” System. These were the material facts going towards the elements of a duty of care that had been breached. AHTC also pleaded that the flawed System caused AHTC damage, as the flaws allowed Mr Loh and Ms How to be responsible for certifying work done, approving payments and/or signing cheques to FMSS/FMSI to benefit themselves from the very same payments. As such, as against Mr Low, Ms Lim, Mr Loh, and Ms How, AHTC did plead the material facts of the elements of the claim in the tort of negligence against the four of them. Therefore, the Court of Appeal was satisfied that AHTC had pleaded the material facts of each element of a claim in negligence against Mr Low, Ms Lim, Mr Loh, and Ms How for permitting the control failures to persist in the System: at [47].9 The Court of Appeal held that no prejudice would be occasioned to Mr Low, Ms Lim, Ms How, and Mr Loh by a finding of liability in negligence for the control failures. This was because evidence was adduced against these four individuals on the control failures, and AHTC had made submissions against these four individuals in relation to the control failures, albeit on the basis that this constituted a breach of fiduciary duties: at [48].Mr Singh, Mr Chua and Mr Foo10 The position was different in relation to Mr Singh, Mr Chua and Mr Foo. This was because AHTC did not plead that any of them were even involved in setting up or implementing the System. AHTC did not cross-examine the three of them regarding the control failures. In its trial closing submissions, AHTC also did not make any claim against Mr Singh, Mr Chua, and Mr Foo regarding the control failures: at [49] and [53].11 In these circumstances, the Court of Appeal found that AHTC did not run any case – much less a clear case – against Mr Singh, Mr Chua, and Mr Foo regarding the System. Consequently, it would unduly prejudice them for the court to now find them liable to AHTC in tort for breach of duty in permitting the control failures to exist in the System: at [54].12 The Court of Appeal did not accept AHTC’s alternative submission that it should be allowed to make a fresh application to amend its pleadings to include a claim in tort in relation to the control failures in the System, as it would cause Mr Singh, Mr Chua and Mr Foo substantial prejudice that could not be adequately compensated in costs: at [56] and [59].Apportionment13 Regarding the Red-Power Issue, as AHTC had no claim relating to Red-Power, it followed that there would be no issue of apportionment of liability between AHTC and STC on the Red-Power Issue: at [62].14 As for the Control Failures Issue, the Court of Appeal agreed with the parties that the court only needed to find, at this stage, which defendant(s) were liable to which plaintiff(s) for which claim(s). Any issue of apportionment should be dealt with at the assessment of damages stage: at [63].Conclusion15 For the above reasons, the Court of Appeal made the following orders in respect of the Appeals:a) In relation to STC:i. The Town Councillors and the Employees were liable to STC in negligence for permitting the control failures in the System to exist.ii. Ms Lim was liable to STC in negligence for causing AHTC to award a new contract to Red-Power.b) In relation to AHTC:i. Mr Low, Ms Lim, Ms How, and Mr Loh were liable to AHTC in negligence for permitting the control failures in the System to exist.c) All other findings by the Judge were overturned. Consequently:i. CA/CA 196/2019, which was an appeal brought by the Employees and FMSS against STC, was allowed in part, as the Judge’s findings that the Employees were liable to STC for breach of fiduciary duties and breach of equitable duties of skill and care were overturned. However, the Court of Appeal found that the Employees were liable to STC in negligence for the control failures in the System.ii. CA/CA 197/2019, which was an appeal brought by the Employees and FMSS against AHTC, was allowed in part, as the Judge’s findings that the Employees were liable to AHTC for breach of fiduciary duties and breach of equitable duties of skill and care were overturned. However, the Court of Appeal found that Ms How and Mr Loh were liable to AHTC in negligence for permitting the control failures in the System to exist. iii. CA/CA 198/2019, which was an appeal brought by the Town Councillors against STC, was allowed in part, as the Judge’s findings that the Town Councillors were liable to STC for breach of fiduciary duties and breach of equitable duties of skill and care were overturned. However, the Court of Appeal found that the Town Councillors were liable to STC in negligence for the control failures in the System, and Ms Lim was liable to STC for causing AHTC to award a contract to Red-Power.iv. CA/CA 199/2019, which was an appeal brought by the Town Councillors against AHTC, was allowed in part, as the Judge’s findings that the Town Councillors were liable to AHTC for breach of fiduciary duties and breach of equitable duties of skill and care were overturned. However, the Court of Appeal found that Mr Low and Ms Lim were liable to AHTC in negligence for permitting the control failures in the System to exist.v. CA/CA 200/2019, which was an appeal brought by STC relating to the legal principles governing reparative compensation necessarily fell away in light of the Court of Appeal’s finding that the Town Councillors and the Employees did not owe fiduciary duties to AHTC. The Court of Appeal accordingly dismissed CA/CA 200/2019: at [66].Costs16 The Court of Appeal reserved the issue of costs of the trial to the Judge to be decided after damages have been assessed. The costs of the Appeals, which dealt solely with the issue of liability, should be determined by the Court of Appeal at this stage and the parties were invited to tender written submissions on the same: at [68].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
