
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE3 July 2023Case summarySingapore Medical Council v Wee Teong Boo [2023] SGHC 180--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):Outcome: Basis on which C3J allowed SMC’s appeal against the sentence imposed on a doctor who breached Ministry of Health guidelines on prescribing medication, and ordered that doctor be struck off. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The sentencing ranges set out in Wong Meng Hang v Singapore Medical Council and other matters [2019] 3 SLR 526 (“Wong Meng Hang”) are only a guide and can be departed from where appropriate to do so. Section 53(2)(b) of the Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (“MRA”) limits the period of suspension that may be imposed by a disciplinary tribunal in a single proceeding to three years, regardless of the number of charges faced by the errant doctor. Accordingly, where an errant doctor faces multiple charges that each attract a substantial term of suspension, it would be appropriate for a sentencing tribunal or court to consider if the doctor’s overall misconduct warrants an order striking him or her off instead. In such cases, a term of suspension may not adequately reflect the seriousness of the doctor’s misconduct and may let the doctor’s additional offending go unpunished: at [64].Background 1 Dr Wee Teong Boo (“Dr Wee”) was registered as a medical practitioner on 26 April 1977 and practised as a general practitioner thereafter. 2 Dr Wee pleaded guilty before a disciplinary tribunal (the “DT”) to 20 charges of professional misconduct. Seven of these charges related to Dr Wee’s inappropriate prescription of codeine-containing cough mixtures to seven patients, while three charges related to Dr Wee’s inappropriate prescription of benzodiazepines to another three patients (collectively, the “Inappropriate Prescription charges”). Dr Wee prescribed these medicines to his patients in a manner that breached the relevant prescription guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health. The remaining ten charges pertained to Dr Wee’s failure to keep adequate medical records in respect of these patients (the “Inadequate Records charges”). Each of the charges alleged that Dr Wee’s conduct amounted to such serious negligence that it objectively constituted an abuse of the privileges of being a registered medical practitioner, and that Dr Wee was accordingly guilty of professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the MRA.3 Dr Wee was convicted on the charges and consented to a further five charges being taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing (the “TIC charges”). The TIC charges related to his failure to keep adequate medical records for another five patients. 4 The DT applied the sentencing framework set out in Wong Meng Hang. In relation to the Inappropriate Prescription charges, the DT assessed Dr Wee’s culpability to be medium and the harm caused by his offending to be moderate, and sentenced Dr Wee to periods of suspension varying between 12 and 18 months per charge. As for the Inadequate Records charges, the DT imposed periods of suspension of either three or four months per charge. The DT considered that an aggregate sentence of 30 months’ suspension was appropriate but applied a one-third sentencing discount on account of a delay in prosecution. Accordingly, the DT ordered that Dr Wee be suspended from the Register of Medical Practitioners for 20 months.5 The SMC appealed against the sentence imposed by the DT on the ground that it was manifestly inadequate. In relation to the sentences imposed for the Inappropriate Prescription charges, the SMC submitted that the DT had erred in finding that Dr Wee’s culpability was medium rather than high. The SMC contended that the appropriate aggregate sentence was a suspension of 36 months. In the alternative, the SMC highlighted that the court had the power to order that Dr Wee be struck off the Register of Medical Practitioners. Dr Wee submitted that the DT’s reasoning was sound and that the SMC’s appeal should therefore be dismissed.DecisionThe DT erred by characterising Dr Wee’s culpability as medium instead of high6 The totality of Dr Wee’s conduct justified finding that his culpability for the Inappropriate Prescription charges was high. It was clear that Dr Wee had not simply prescribed an excess of medication to his patients in a bid to treat medical conditions they suffered from. Rather, he had no clinical basis for his prescriptions and must have been cognisant of the fact that his prescriptions were perpetuating his patients’ drug dependency issues: at [38] and [39].7 In relation to the patients identified as P1, P2, P3, P11 and P13, Dr Wee had admitted in a written explanation provided to the SMC (the “Letter of Explanation”) that he had known that these patients were dependent on codeine-containing cough mixtures. He had prescribed them with codeine-containing cough mixtures for the sole purpose of fuelling their addictions, and not on account of any underlying medical condition that they suffered from. This was a flagrant abuse of Dr Wee’s privileges as a medical practitioner: at [42], [43] and [47].8 As for the patients identified as P4, P5, P9, P10 and P15, the facts amply supported the inference that these patients had drug dependency issues, and that Dr Wee must have known that they suffered from such issues. P4, P5, P9, P10 and P15 had obtained prescriptions from Dr Wee frequently over an extended period, and Dr Wee did not have any clinical basis or satisfactory explanation for his repeated prescriptions: at [49], [50], and [56].9 The fact that Dr Wee had been convicted of serious negligence amounting to professional misconduct, rather than intentional and deliberate misconduct, did not preclude a finding that his culpability was high. The DT had also erred in considering Dr Wee’s lack of a profit motive to be a mitigating factor. It is well established that the absence of an aggravating factor is neutral and not mitigating: at [59] and [60].10 It was clear that Dr Wee’s conduct constituted a deliberate departure from the basic standards expected of a medical practitioner, and that his culpability therefore fell at the highest end of the scale: at [61].The appropriate sanction11 Given the DT’s finding that the harm caused by the Inappropriate Prescription charges was moderate, and the court’s finding that Dr Wee’s culpability was high, it followed that the indicative sentencing range under the Wong Meng Hang sentencing framework was a suspension of two to three years for each of the Inappropriate Prescription charges: at [63].12 That being said, the sentencing ranges set out in Wong Meng Hang are only a guide and can be departed from where appropriate to do so. Section 53(2)(b) of the MRA limits the period of suspension that may be imposed by a disciplinary tribunal in a single proceeding to three years, regardless of the number of charges faced by the errant doctor. Accordingly, where an errant doctor faces multiple charges that each attract a substantial term of suspension, it would be appropriate for a sentencing tribunal or court to consider if the doctor’s overall misconduct warrants an order striking him or her off instead. In such cases, a term of suspension may not adequately reflect the seriousness of the doctor’s misconduct and may let the doctor’s additional offending go unpunished: at [64].13 Dr Wee’s misconduct in relation to the Inappropriate Prescription charges was so serious as to render him unfit to remain as a member of the medical profession. His misconduct was a gross departure from the basic duties of a medical practitioner and demonstrated a systemic disregard for his patients’ well-being. The present appeal appeared to involve the highest number of patients in all precedent cases decided post-Wong Meng Hang, and was one of the most egregious cases of professional misconduct to date involving the inappropriate prescription of codeine-containing cough mixtures and benzodiazepines. Dr Wee’s attempts to justify his prescriptions in his Letter of Explanation, and later in his submissions for the present appeal, also suggested a persistent lack of insight into the seriousness of his misconduct: at [66], [67] and [68].14 The fact that the present case involved a moderate level of harm did not bar an order striking Dr Wee off. While it was observed in Wong Meng Hang that striking off should be considered where a doctor’s misconduct has caused grave harm, an order striking an errant doctor off is not contingent on a finding of severe harm: at [69].15 Dr Wee’s personal mitigating circumstances did not militate against an order striking him off. Given the seriousness of Dr Wee’s misconduct, the interest in ensuring fairness on account of his personal circumstances was eclipsed by the overriding need to uphold the standing of the medical profession and considerations of general deterrence. Dr Wee’s mitigating circumstances also had to be balanced against the fact that he was a senior member of the profession at the time of his misconduct, which meant his patients would have reposed a higher degree of trust and confidence in him: at [72].16 The question of whether a sentencing discount was warranted on account of the delay in prosecution did not arise for the court’s consideration, given the court’s decision to strike Dr Wee off. Nevertheless, it must be remembered that such a discount is not automatic or routine. In every case in which there has been a delay, all the circumstances have to be scrutinised to determine whether the application of a discount is appropriate and will not trivialise or undermine the sanction being meted out: at [74].17 The Court of Three Judges allowed the SMC’s appeal and ordered that Dr Wee be struck off the Register of Medical Practitioners with immediate effect: at [75].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
