
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 June 2023 Case Summary CZT v CZU [2023] SGHC(I) 11 Originating Summons No 1 of 2023 (Summonses Nos 788, 789 and 790 of 2023) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Chua Lee Ming J): Outcome: The Singapore International Commercial Court dismisses applications for orders that the three members of the arbitration tribunal produce their records of deliberations.  Introduction 1 In arbitration proceedings commenced by the defendant against the plaintiff, the arbitral tribunal (the “Tribunal”), by a majority, issued an award against the plaintiff. The minority (the “Minority”) issued a dissenting opinion in which he made several serious allegations against the majority (the “Majority”). 2 The plaintiff has applied to set aside the arbitral award. The three summonses before the court are applications by the plaintiff for orders that the three members of the Tribunal produce their records of deliberations.3 The plaintiff’s case is that the records of deliberations are relevant and material to the plaintiff’s case that:a. The Majority in fact decided a key liability issue on grounds or for the true reasons that are not contained in the Final Award (but in the May Award as stated by the Minority) and/or as a result of a breach of the fair hearing rule. The plaintiff submits that a breach of the fair hearing rule can arise from the chain of reasoning adopted by the Majority. b. The Majority attempted to conceal the true reasons behind the Final Award (by issuing the May Award for approval by the ICC, before making material changes to it in the Final Award following further concerns expressed by the Minority and despite the May Award having been approved by the ICC). c. The Majority lacked impartiality.  4 It was common ground that the records of deliberations of an arbitral tribunal are confidential and protected against production orders, but this protection is not absolute and is subject to exceptions. The dispute concerned the scope of such exceptions and whether the present case was an exception.5 The defendant also submitted that the production of the documents sought should not be ordered because:a. the documents requested are not sufficiently relevant or material – O 110 r 17(2)(b)(i) of the Rules of Court 2014 (the “2014 Rules”); b. there is legal impediment to production of the documents requested – O 110 r 17(2)(b)(ii);c. it would be an unreasonable burden to produce the documents requested – O 110 r 17(2)(b)(iii); d. compelling grounds of commercial confidentiality exist – O 110 r 17(2)(b)(v); e. compelling grounds of institutional sensitivity exist – O 110 r 17(2)(b)(vi); andf. the documents requested are not described with sufficient particularity – O 110 r 15(3)(a). The court’s decision 6 The confidentiality of deliberations, like the confidentiality of arbitration proceedings, exists as an implied obligation in law. There are well-recognised policy reasons for the protection of confidentiality of arbitrators’ deliberations: (a) confidentiality is a necessary pre-requisite for frank discussion between the arbitrators; (b) freedom from outside scrutiny enables the arbitrators to reflect on the evidence without restriction, to draw conclusions untrammelled by any subsequent disclosure of their thought processes, and, where they are so inclined, to change these conclusions on further reflection without fear of subsequent criticism or of the need for subsequent explanation (eg, to the party who appointed them); (c) the duty on the tribunal to keep deliberations confidential protects the tribunal from outside influence; and (d) this rule helps to minimise spurious annulment or enforcement challenges based on matters raised in deliberations or differences between the deliberations and the final award and is thereby critical to the integrity and efficacy of the whole arbitral process: at [44]. 7 The protection of the confidentiality of deliberations does not apply where the challenge is to what may be described as the essential process rather than the substance of the deliberations. The protection does not apply to such process issues because they do not involve an arbitrator’s thought processes or reasons for his decision. The policy reasons for the protection of the confidentiality of deliberations are therefore not engaged: at [50]. 8 A case would fall within the exception if the facts and circumstances are such that the interests of justice in ordering the production of records of deliberations outweigh the policy reasons for protecting the confidentiality of deliberations. Such exceptions are only to be found in the very rarest of cases and would have to involve allegations that are very serious in nature. In addition, it must be shown that the allegations have real prospects of succeeding: at [52] and [53]. 9 In the present case, the allegation of breach of the fair hearing rule is not sufficient to displace the protection of the confidentiality of deliberations. Besides, this allegation can be decided based on the arbitration record; the records of deliberations are unnecessary: at [59]. 10 It is doubtful whether the allegations, that (a) the reasons in the Final Award are not the true reasons and (b) the Majority concealed the fact that the revised draft award included substantial changes that went beyond the ICC Court’s comments, are capable of constituting an exception to the protection of the confidentiality of deliberations: at [61]. It seems arguable that lack of impartiality could constitute an exception because impartiality is fundamental to the integrity of arbitration proceedings: at [61]. However, it is not necessary to come to a definitive conclusion in the present case because the plaintiff has not shown that these allegations of impartiality have real prospects of succeeding: at [62]–[68]. 11 The court disagrees with the plaintiff’s submission that the May Award was not part of the records of deliberations. The scrutiny process by the ICC Court forms part of the deliberations stage of the tribunal. A draft award submitted to the ICC Court for scrutiny is thus part of the records of deliberations: at [71]–[73].12 Given that the plaintiff has failed to show that the case is an exception to the protection of the confidentiality of deliberations, it is not necessary to deal with the defendant’s other submissions. However, the court notes that it seems that the protection of the confidentiality of deliberations would be a “legal impediment” under O 110 r 17(2)(b)(ii) of the 2014 Rules: at [76]. 13 The court also notes that it may be said that some of the documents have not been sufficiently particularised. Some of the documents are described as documents evidencing the Minority’s subjective view that the Majority had given an inaccurate/untruthful account of the deliberative history but no particulars of the inaccurate/untruthful accounts have been given. The Majority cannot be expected to be able to identify the documents to be produced. However, the fact that the documents have not been described with sufficient particularity in an application for production is not necessarily fatal. A production order may still be made in respect of a more defined set of documents where the interests of justice require it: at [79].  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision. 
