
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE[27 June 2023]Case summaryZhang Lan v La Dolce Vita Fine Dining Group Holdings Limited and other appeals [2023] SGHC(A) 22--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):Outcome: AD dismisses the appeals, affirming the finding of the Judge of the General Division that the appellant in AD/CA 4/2023 and AD/CA 5/2023 beneficially owned the disputed moneys and the Judge’s decision to appoint receivers over the bank accounts where the moneys were kept.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A preliminary issue was whether permission to appeal was necessary. In the circumstances, permission to appeal was not necessary as the order made by the judge below finally determined the rights of the parties, and left nothing further to be decided: at [25] to [34].•  The Judge did not err in finding that the appellant in AD/CA 4 and AD/CA 5 (“Mdm Zhang”) intended to retain beneficial ownership over the disputed assets (the “Assets”), contrary to Mdm Zhang’s claim that these Assets were held by a professional trustee on trust for her son and his descendants. Mdm Zhang’s subsequent conduct was highly probative of the fact that Mdm Zhang regarded the Assets as beneficially owned by her: at [38] to [59] and [86].•  The appellant in AD/CA 6/2023 and AD/CA 7/2023 was a company (“SETL”) in whose name the Assets were held. SETL’s case that it absolutely owned the Assets was undermined by Mdm Zhang’s subsequent conduct and also by SETL’s protracted inaction in the proceedings. It had failed to challenge freezing orders over the Assets for several years, and could not satisfactorily explain this delay: at [60] to [64] and [86].Background 1 AD/CA 4/2023, AD/CA 5/2023, AD/CA 6/2023 and AD/CA 7/2023 (“CA 4” to “CA 7” respectively) are appeals against the decision of the General Division in HC/SUM 2703/2021 (“SUM 2703”) and HC/SUM 2704/2021 (“SUM 2704”; collectively referred to as “SUMs 2703 and 2704”). 2 These appeals arise from a sale and purchase agreement between La Dolce Vita Fine Dining Company Limited (“LDV”), La Dolce Vita Fine Dining Group Holdings Limited (“LDV Group”), and Mdm Zhang Lan (“Mdm Zhang”) on 10 August 2013 (the “SPA”) (amongst other parties). LDV Group wholly owns LDV. Under the SPA, the LDV and LDV Group (collectively, the “LDV Entities”) acquired 86.2% of South Beauty Investment Company Limited (“SBIC”). SBIC was the holding company of the well-known ‘South Beauty’ restaurant chain that Mdm Zhang had founded and developed. 3 Pursuant to the SPA, a total of US$286,850,887 was paid over three tranches to Mdm Zhang from 16 December 2013 and 13 June 2014. The bulk of this purchase price was paid into Mdm Zhang’s Safra Sarasin bank account in Hong Kong (the “SS Account”).4 Prior to and amidst these transfers, Mdm Zhang sought advice on the setting up of a family trust for the benefit of her son, Mr Wang Xiaofei (“Mr Wang”). The first step of the trust arrangement was the incorporation of Success Elegant Trading Limited (“SETL”) in the British Virgin Islands on 2 January 2014. At the point of SETL’s incorporation, Mdm Zhang was the owner of the sole share in SETL and its director. Next, from February to March 2014, Mdm Zhang set up in Singapore bank accounts with Credit Suisse AG Bank (“CS”) and Deutsche Bank AG (“DB”) under SETL’s name. From 10 March 2014 to 21 July 2014, US$142,051,618 in cash and securities was transferred from Mdm Zhang’s SS Account to SETL’s bank account with CS (the “CS Account”). US$85,225,000 was also transferred from the CS Account to SETL’s DB bank account (the “DB Account”) between 27 March 2014 and 27 November 2014. 5 On 3 June 2014, a Declaration of Trust was executed over the sum of US$10 in favour of “Wang Xiaofei and his children and remoter issue” (the “Declaration of Trust”), with Asiatrust Limited (“Asiatrust”), a company that provides professional trustee services, named as the trustee. This trust was referred to as the “Success Elegant Trust”. The following day, Mdm Zhang executed a Deed of Addition of Assets (the “Deed of Addition”), in which the sole share in SETL was transferred from Mdm Zhang to Asiatrust. The Declaration of Trust and Deed of Addition are collectively referred to as the “Trust Documents”.6 Meanwhile, and sometime after the SPA was complete, SBIC began experiencing a significant decline in its financial performance. After conducting internal investigations, the LDV Entities sought an injunction against Mdm Zhang in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance (“HKCFI”) from disposing of any of her assets whether in or outside Hong Kong. The injunction was granted on 26 February 2015 (the “HK Freezing Orders”). The LDV Entities also successfully obtained in the Singapore courts freezing orders over Mdm Zhang’s assets in Singapore (the “SG Freezing Orders”). The LDV Entities then each commenced arbitration in the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission (“CIETAC”) against Mdm Zhang, claiming that Mdm Zhang had made fraudulent and negligent representations in connection with the SPA. On 28 April 2019, CIETAC found for the LDV Entities in their claim for negligent representation (the “Arbitral Awards”). The LDV Entities then obtained judgments in Hong Kong recognising the Arbitral Awards (the “HK Judgments”), and successfully registered the HK Judgments in Singapore (the “SG Registration Order”).7 On 9 June 2021, LDV and LDV Group filed SUMs 2703 and 2704 respectively against Mdm Zhang in a bid to enforce the SG Registration Order. SUMs 2703 and 2704 were applications for the appointment of receivers over the bank accounts of SETL, with SETL added as a defendant in SUMs 2703 and 2704 on 16 September 2021. 8 The central issue before the High Court judge (the “Judge”) in SUMs 2703 and 2704 was whether the moneys in the bank accounts of SETL (the “Bank Accounts”) were beneficially owned by Mdm Zhang. The Judge held in the affirmative: see La Dolce Vita Fine Dining Co Ltd v Zhang Lan and others and another matter [2022] SGHC 278 (the “HC Judgment”).  In particular, the Judge found that Mdm Zhang was motivated by a desire to protect her funds from potential claims by the LDV Entities without giving up her ability to make use of those funds for her own benefit (HC Judgment at [54]). This was evident from the fact that Mdm Zhang had transferred moneys from the Bank Accounts for her own purposes prior to the HK Freezing Orders and SG Freezing Orders. Further, Mdm Zhang transferred moneys out of the DB Account in haste after receiving notice of the HK Freezing Orders. The Judge held that it was just and convenient for the receivership orders to be made: HC Judgment at [58].9 Dissatisfied, Mdm Zhang filed CA 4 against LDV Group and CA 5 against LDV, which are appeals against SUM 2704 and SUM 2703 respectively. SETL also appealed against the Judge’s decision, filing CA 6 against LDV and CA 7 against LDV Group. CA 6 and CA 7 are SETL’s appeals against SUMs 2703 and 2704 respectively.DecisionPermission to Appeal10 A preliminary issue that arose was whether the appellants, Mdm Zhang and SETL, required permission to appeal against the HC Judgment. Under para 3(l) of the Fifth Schedule of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (“SCJA”), permission of the appellate court is required to appeal against “an order at the hearing of any interlocutory application” (other than an application for certain matters set out under para 3(l) which are not applicable to the present proceedings). An “order” referred to an “interlocutory order”, which in turn refers to an order that “does not finally dispose of the rights of the parties”. An “interlocutory application” referred to an application whose determination may or may not finally determine the parties’ rights in the cause of the pending proceedings in which the application is being brought. The issue was whether the HC Judgment was an interlocutory order made at the hearing of an interlocutory application: at [24] to [26].11 The Judge was of the view that the power of the court to appoint receivers by way of equitable execution was founded on s 4(10) of the Civil Law Act 1909 (2020 Rev Ed) (“CLA”), which provided that “a receiver [may be] appointed by an interlocutory order of the court”. A plain reading of the provision suggested that an order under s 4(10) was an “interlocutory order”, which would require permission before an appeal could be made. This was supported by a brief perusal of the legislative history of s 4(10), which indicated that s 4(10) was interlocutory in the sense that it may be exercised pending the final determination of the parties’ rights: at [28] and [29]. 12 There was, however, another provision on the appointment of receivers, O 51 r 1(1) of the Rules of Court (Cap 332, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC 2014”), which addressed the situation where “an application is made for the appointment of a receiver by way of equitable execution”. The court observed that the exercise of the power under O 51 r 1(1) appeared to be situated at the point of the proceedings where the substantive rights of the parties had already been determined, and where equitable relief was necessary in order for the judgment creditor to attain the fruits of the court’s determination on the merits. This was as opposed to the exercise of the power under s 4(10) of the CLA for preservatory purposes. As such, O 51 r 1(1) of the ROC 2014 was the proper statutory basis for the Judge’s orders. The Judge’s order for the appointment of a receiver by way of equitable execution was not an interlocutory one as the Judge’s orders were premised on a determination of the rights over the Assets; and there was nothing further for the court to determine once the Judge’s orders were made: at [30] to [34].Whether Mdm Zhang was the beneficial owner of the Assets13 The key substantive issue in the appeals was whether Mdm Zhang was the beneficial owner of the Assets. The court’s task was to arrive at an objective assessment of the subjective intentions of the transferor of the Assets; ie, Mdm Zhang. The relevant time to ascertain a transferor’s intention was the time the property was transferred to the transferee. On the facts, the operative time at which Mdm Zhang’s intention should be assessed was 4 June 2014, being the date at which the Deed of Addition was executed and which she claimed beneficial ownership of the Assets was transferred to Mr Wang and his children: at [37].14 Beginning with the Trust Documents, the court noted that these documents did not expressly deal with the Assets. As such, contrary to Mdm Zhang’s submission, her intention with respect to the Assets was not wholly determined with reference to the Trust Documents, but remained an inquiry to be determined against all the available evidence: at [39] and [43]. 15 The Declaration of Trust executed on 3 June 2014 contained a declaration that the “Trustees”, identified as Asiatrust, held the “Trust Fund” for the benefit of the “Beneficiaries”. The “Beneficiaries” were identified in the Third Schedule of the same document as “Wang Xiaofei and his children and remoter issue”. The Deed of Addition, executed the next day, stated that Mdm Zhang, as “Settlor” of the Success Elegant Trust, transferred “one (1) fully paid share… in [SETL]” in addition to the “Trust Fund”. The evidential significance of the Trust Documents was that it set the contours of the authority and powers exercisable by Mdm Zhang as the settlor, AsiaTrust as Trustee, and Mr Wang as the “protector” (as well as the beneficiary to the Success Elegant Trust together with his descendants). Notably, Mdm Zhang retained no residual powers under the Declaration of Trust except to terminate the protector of the trust. If beneficial ownership in the Assets had truly been transferred by Mdm Zhang, Mdm Zhang’s role would be reduced to acting as the authorized signatory over the Bank Accounts up till late-March 2015 and as the sole director of SETL until 3 March 2015 when Mdm Zhang resigned for ATP Directors Limited to take over as the sole director of SETL: at [39] and [43] to [45].16 The events that occurred subsequent to the execution of the Trust Documents were highly probative of Mdm Zhang’s intention to retain beneficial interest in the Assets notwithstanding her trust arrangements. One such event was a series of transfers from 12 June 2014 to 11 February 2015 from the CS Account to Mdm Zhang and Mr Wang (the “June 2014 to February 2015 CS Transfers”). Three points arose from these transfers: first, four out of seven of these transfers were made directly to Mdm Zhang. While Mdm Zhang’s evidence was that two of these four transfers were made for the benefit of Mr Wang, there was no valid reason for the moneys to be transferred first to Mdm Zhang’s account. Secondly, Mdm Zhang was unable to account for two of the transfers, one of which was for a large sum of US$3m. This was questionable since she was able to give evidence on the other transfers, and further because the trust was administered by a professional trustee. Thirdly, there was nothing in the evidence to show that the trustee, Asiatrust, had directed Mdm Zhang to make the June 2014 to February 2015 CS Transfers. Indeed, Mdm Zhang did not assert that she had done so on the instructions of Asiatrust. It was thus odd that Mdm Zhang was able to direct those transfers unilaterally given the limited role she was to play as the sole signatory of the CS Account and director of SETL at this juncture: at [48] to [51]. 17 The events that followed the June 2014 to February 2015 CS Transfers reinforced the court’s conclusion that Mdm Zhang intended to retain beneficial ownership over the Assets. Around two weeks after the last of the June 2014 to February 2015 Transfers, the LDV Entities had on 26 February 2015 filed an ex parte application in the HKCFI to obtain the HK Freezing Orders. The HK Freezing Orders were granted that same day. The LDV Entities’ evidence is that Mdm Zhang received notice of the HK Freezing Orders on 2 March 2015 through her office located in Beijing. The next day, she also attended a meeting with Mr Roy Kuan, a representative of CVC, and acknowledged her receipt of the HK Freezing Orders. On 3 and 4 March 2015, Mdm Zhang then proceeded to direct transfers for substantial amounts out of the DB Account (the “March 2015 DB Transfers”). Pertinently, some of these transfers were instructed to be made “soonest” and marked “TOP URGENT”. The court was of the view that when the great haste with which Mdm Zhang had directed the transfers on 4 March 2015 was taken together with the fact that she had been served the HK Freezing Orders only one day earlier, it may be inferred that Mdm Zhang had acted as she did in fear that the Assets in Singapore may also be subject to similar freezing orders. This urgency spoke to Mdm Zhang’s subjective view that the Assets were her own rather than vested in Mr Wang and his issue, or SETL for that matter: at [52] to [55].18 The court further noted that Mdm Zhang exercised a large extent of control over the “urgent” transfers made on 4 March 2015. It was clear that Mdm Zhang saw fit to deal freely with the Assets as she directed certain transfers without any prior direction from the trustee. Taken together with her limited if not virtually non-existent role in the Success Elegant Trust, this spoke to her subjective intention to retain beneficial ownership over the moneys in the Bank Account: at [59].19 It was also pertinent that SETL did not act after the Assets in the Bank Account were frozen following the SG Freezing Orders. At the time of the hearing before the Judge, several years had lapsed without SETL taking any action to contest the SG Freezing Orders. The evidence of SETL’s witness, Ms Angela Edith Pope (“Ms Pope”) was that there was no urgency nor good reason for SETL to challenge the SG Freezing Orders since the “funds would be released in due course through the efforts of Mdm Zhang”. The court rejected this as there was no good reason for SETL to have done so given its case that it was the absolute owner of the Assets. Further, in the course of the proceedings, SETL had applied for permission to withdraw $500,000 from the Bank Accounts to meet operational needs. This was inconsistent with Ms Pope’s evidence that there was no urgency to seek a release of the Assets. SETL’s failure to challenge the SG Freezing Orders undermined its case that it was the absolute owner of the Assets: at [60] to [64].20 There were three remaining categories of evidence, which the court dealt with in the following manner:a. On 5 March 2015, a day after the March 2015 DB Transfers were completed, the LDV Entities commenced arbitration proceedings in CIETAC against Mdm Zhang and her associated companies. On 6 March 2015, Mdm Zhang’s solicitors, in response to the freezing of the DB Account, wrote to DB’s solicitors and informed them that Mdm Zhang “maintains” the DB Account. This supported the inference that Mdm Zhang saw the moneys in the DB Account as her own. Also, if Mdm Zhang saw the moneys in that account as belonging instead to SETL, she would have immediately informed SETL of the situation. The court inferred that she did not do so as SETL only came into the picture much later by way of a letter dated 30 March 2015 by SETL’s solicitors. The late involvement of SETL suggested that Mdm Zhang had not informed the new shareholder of SETL or the new director promptly about the Bank Accounts when the share was transferred or the new director appointed, respectively, at the time of transfer or appointment: at [69] to [70].b. On 14 March 2017, the LDV Entities obtained leave to commence committal proceedings against Mdm Zhang before the HKCFI, claiming that she had breached the HK Freezing Orders (amongst other claims). In a judgment released on 14 March 2018, the HKCFI found that the LDV Entities had not proven that Mdm Zhang was the beneficial owner of the Assets, and was therefore not liable for dissipating the Assets in breach of the HK Freezing Orders. This judgment was of limited evidential value as the committal proceedings required a higher standard of proof, ie, beyond a reasonable doubt, while that before the Judge was on a balance of probabilities. Further, it was not clear what the evidential basis was for the HKCFI’s observation that it was “reasonably possible and plausible” that Mdm Zhang authorised the transfers “upon instructions and at the direction of the trustee” as there was no such evidence before the court of any such instruction or direction. Therefore, these views were not sufficient to displace the inferences rightfully drawn by the Judge in relation to the beneficial ownership of the Asset: at [71] to [73].c. In the course of setting up the Bank Accounts, several bank documents were submitted to CS and DB. Some of these documents, such as an account opening form submitted to CS, and a risk profile form submitted to DB, reflected that Mdm Zhang was the “beneficial owner” of the account. While there was a ‘W-8BEN Form’ submitted by SETL to CS where SETL is declared as the “beneficial owner” of the income of the CS Account, the court found that the collective weight of the evidence outweighed the inference to be drawn from the W-8BEN Form: at [75] to [85] and [87].21 For the above reasons, the court dismissed the appeals: at [88].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
