
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE19 June 2023Case summaryCSDS Aircraft Sales & Leasing Inc v Singapore Airlines Limited [2023] SGCA(I) 5Civil Appeal No 8 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against SICC Judge’s decision regarding the calculation of damages for breach of an aircraft purchase agreement. Pertinent and significant points of the grounds of decision:•  The court must factor into its analysis all categories of evidence (both factual and expert) when arriving at its conclusion on valuation. These pieces of evidence must be tested against one another, having regard to logic and common sense. The weight to be ascribed to each category of evidence depends on the issue in question, the nature of the evidence and its inherent reliability. There is no hierarchy of evidence on the determination of the market value of an asset: at [34]–[35].Background to the appeal1 The appellant, CSDS Aircraft Sales & Leasing Inc (“CSDS”) entered into a contract to purchase from the respondent, Singapore Airlines Ltd (“SIA”), a Boeing 777-212 aircraft (the “Aircraft”) without engines at the price of US$6.5m. Following the trial on liability, a judge of the Singapore International Commercial Court (the “Judge”) ruled that CSDS was in repudiatory breach of contract and the contract terminated on 4 November 2018. The remaining issue pertained to the assessment of damages resulting from the breach. SIA sought damages for: (a) the difference in the contract price and market value of the Aircraft, (b) parking and maintenance fees, etc.2 Despite efforts by SIA to resell the Aircraft after 4 November 2018, no successful substitute sale was concluded. The highest viable bid that SIA received for the sale of the Aircraft’s components (excluding the airframe) was US$1.315m in the request for proposal issued on 12 March 2019 (the “March 2019 RFP”). However, SIA did not proceed with this bid as it considered redeploying the Aircraft to meet the operational needs of its sister airlines. After this, further attempts were made to advertise and sell the Aircraft, but to no avail.3 The key issue before the Judge, and in the present appeal, pertained to the proper determination of the market value of the Aircraft. SIA adduced expert evidence from Mr Philip Seymour (“Mr Seymour”) who provided a notional valuation of the Aircraft by extrapolating from the market value of another aircraft model and making certain adjustments, but also taking into account that the Aircraft was to be sold without engines. Based on Mr Seymour’s expert evidence, the median point market value of the Aircraft in February 2019 and August 2019 was US$2.14m and US$1.17m respectively. Thus, the mid-point of these figures for May 2019 would have been US$1.66m.4 The Judge relied on both the factual and expert evidence on record to determine the Aircraft’s market value at US$1.5m. Therefore, the consequential damages suffered by SIA amounted to US$4.75m (ie, the contract price of US$6.5m, less a US$250,000 deposit paid and the US$1.5m market valuation). The Judge also found that a period of six months from 4 November 2018 (ie, 4 May 2019) was a reasonable timeframe to conclude a substitute sale based on the most viable bid of US$1.315m in the March 2019 RFP following some negotiation. Consequently, the Judge awarded the attendant parking and maintenance charges required to store and maintain the Aircraft for inspection by potential buyers for six months, amounting to S$233,829.87. 5 CSDS appealed against the Judge’s decision.Decision on appeal6 It is axiomatic that the process of valuing assets is largely fact-sensitive in nature and is typically reliant on expert evidence to assist the court. The court must consider all categories of evidence (both factual and expert) when arriving at its conclusion on valuation, and these pieces of evidence must be tested against one another. The Judge did not completely disregard Mr Seymour’s expert evidence when ascertaining the market value of the Aircraft. This was self-evident from the Judge’s reasoning where he noted that his conclusion of US$1.5m (by adding an uplift from the March 2019 RFP bid of US$1.315m) was “not too different from Mr Seymour’s conclusion”: at [33], [34] and [36].7 Where it was difficult to ascertain the market value of an asset, reference to third-party offers was relevant as they can provide some informational value on market value, though not having determinative weight. In this appeal, reference to third-party offers was required as it was difficult to determine the Aircraft’s market value as it was to be sold without engines which created difficulties in attracting prospective offers. The March 2019 RFP bid for $1.315m was a tangible and real offer that should be given due regard as it was genuine, made at arm’s length, and was not speculative or conditional: at [38] to [40].8 The median point market valuation of the Aircraft provided by Mr Seymour for May 2019 was US$1.66m which was remarkably close to the March 2019 RFP bid of US$1.315m. This suggested that Mr Seymour’s valuation was not unfounded or divorced from reality. Taking into consideration both the factual and expert evidence, the Judge’s eventual figure of US$1.5m would approximate the arithmetic mean of US$1.315m and US$1.66m. There was thus no reason to disturb the Judge’s conclusion: at [42] and [43].9 While Mr Seymour made certain concessions at the trial concerning his valuation methodology, the Judge was entitled to reject these as they were mistaken concessions. If the evidence of the expert does not make sense, it is entirely open to the court to disregard it just like any other inherently tenuous or questionable evidence: at [48] to [53].10 There was no reason to disturb the Judge’s finding that the reasonable time to conclude the substitute sale would be six months from 4 November 2018. Once the March 2019 RFP bid was used as the reference point to assess the reasonable time for sale, it was untenable for CSDS to suggest otherwise that a substitute sale could have been concluded within three months (ie, even before March 2019). Thus, CSDS’ challenge to the award of six months of parking and maintenance fees (instead of three months) must fail: at [54] to [56].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
