
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE26 May 2023Case summaryBIT Baltic Investment & Trading Pte Ltd v Wee See Boon [2023] SGCA 17Civil Appeal No 26 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal of BIT Baltic Investment & Trading Pte Ltd (in compulsory liquidation) (“BIT Baltic”) and held that its former director Mr Wee See Boon (“Mr Wee”) breached the duties of care, skill and diligence that he owed to BIT Baltic. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A director’s duties of care, skill and diligence require him to take reasonable steps to place himself in a position to guide and monitor the management of the company. Where he is alerted to an alleged illegal course of action, he has a duty to make the necessary inquiries into the propriety of the course of action and take the relevant follow-up steps to avert or mitigate the improper course: at [56] and [60-61]. Background 1 The underlying dispute concerned a series of unfair preference payments (“the Payments”) that BIT Baltic made between 12 December 2018 and 27 December 2018 to two related parties while Mr Wee was one of BIT Baltic’s directors. After the company went into liquidation, the liquidator sought recovery of the Payments from Mr Wee, alleging that he had acted in breach of his director’s duties in relation to the Payments. 2 While the Payments were refunded prior to the hearing below, BIT Baltic continued with its application and sought instead additional damages from Mr Wee in the form of: (a) loss of interest on the principal sum of the Payments; (b) the costs of the liquidator, and (c) the costs of the petitioning creditor.  3 In the proceedings below, the Judge dismissed BIT Baltic’s claims as she found that Mr Wee was not aware of the Payments at the time they were made and had nothing to do with making them. She thus held that Mr Wee did not breach his duties as a director of BIT Baltic.  The Court of Appeal’s decision4 The appeal was allowed on the basis that: (a) the scope of Mr Wee’s duties was not attenuated and he was subject to the full range of directors’ duties; and (b) Mr Wee breached his duties of care, skill and diligence: at [48]–[52], [58]–[61].5 In relation to a director’s fiduciary duties to the company, the court held that these comprised: (a) the duty to act honestly and in good faith in the best interests of the company; (b) the duty not to exercise his powers for an improper purpose such as to profit personally from his office; and (c) the duty not to place himself in a position which will result in a conflict of interest between his duties to the company and his personal interests. The court further held that Mr Wee was not in breach of any fiduciary duty in this case: at [31]–[33], [54]–[55].6 In relation to a director’s duties of care, skill and diligence, the court held that these were not imposed to exact loyalty from a director but instead related to the standard of care and diligence expected of a director that was to be assessed objectively. To meet the minimum objective standard of care, a director must take reasonable steps to place himself in a position to guide and monitor the management of the company. This standard applies to all directors, whether executive or non-executive: at [34], [56]–[57].7 The court held that Mr Wee was in breach of his duties of care, skill and diligence by failing to make the necessary inquiries about the Payments, which he should have done at the latest, when he became aware of BIT Baltic’s insolvent state. The full picture of BIT Baltic’s financial state at the time the Payments were made would have presented itself to Mr Wee when he signed the Director’s Statement to the 2018 Financial Statement on 15 August 2019. He would have also realised then that the Payments were undue preference payments to related parties and should have taken steps to point this out to the other directors and request them to take steps to recover the Payments. Mr Wee did nothing although BIT Baltic was then insolvent and should have been managed in the interests of its creditors as a whole: at [56]–[61].8 In relation to the damages sought by BIT Baltic, the court held that BIT Baltic would only be entitled to the loss of interest on the principal sum of the Payments at a fixed deposit rate of 0.8% per annum for the period between 15 August 2019 and 22 December 2021, and interest at the rate of 5.33% per annum from 23 December 2021 to the date of judgment. BIT Baltic was not allowed to claim the costs of the liquidator and the petitioning creditor: at [82]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
