
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
27 April 2020
Case summary
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9232 of 2019/01
Public Prosecutor v Siow Kai Yuan Terence [2020] SGHC 82
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: High Court adopts a three-limbed framework to assess the offender’s propensity for reform. Applying the framework, the Court holds that that Respondent has failed to demonstrate an extremely strong propensity for reform, and that deterrence ought to remain the dominant sentencing consideration. Accordingly, the appeal is allowed, and the order of probation with community work is replaced by a two weeks’ imprisonment term. 
Background to the appeal
1 Terence Siow Kai Yuan (“the Respondent”) was 23 years of age when he pleaded guilty to one charge of outraging a victim’s modesty by touching her buttocks over her shorts with his finger while on the public transport network (“proceeded charge”). He consented to two other charges, concerning his touching of the victim’s thigh, being taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing (“TIC charges”). The offences had been committed when he was 22 years old.
2 During sentencing, the District Judge called for a probation report. Considering the parties’ submissions, as well as the assessment of the Probation Officer, who concluded that the Respondent was suitable for probation, the District Judge found that the Respondent had demonstrated an extremely strong propensity for reform. While the Respondent was 22 years old at the time of the offence, which suggested that deterrence was presumptively the dominant sentencing consideration, she noted that the nature of the acts were relatively minor. She also had regard to the Respondent’s academic record, which suggested a good prognosis. In all the circumstances, the District Judge sentenced the Respondent to 21 months’ supervised probation, 150 hours of community service, and to attend offence-specific treatment programmes.
3 The Prosecution appealed against the sentence of probation, which was stayed pending the disposition of the present appeal.
Decision on appeal
4 Deterrence was the operative sentencing consideration for offences involving the outrage of modesty by an adult offender, and this was especially so when the offences were committed on the public transport network. Rehabilitation would typically not be the predominant consideration, unless the particular offender could demonstrate an extremely strong propensity for reform or there existed other exceptional circumstances: at [42]–[43].
5 The Respondent was above the age of 21 both at the time of the offence and of sentencing. The offence of outrage of modesty was also committed on the public transport network. As the Respondent did not argue that there were exceptional circumstances, unless he could demonstrate an extremely strong propensity for reform, a sentence that placed emphasis on deterrence would be appropriate: at [41] and [44].
Framework for assessing whether an offender had demonstrated an extremely strong propensity for reform
6 Reviewing the approach taken in a number of precedents, the Court concluded that the assessment of an offender’s rehabilitative capacity was a multi-factorial one, with a particular focus on offender-specific, rather than offence-specific factors: at [47]–[50].
7 In assessing whether an offender had demonstrated an extremely strong propensity for reform, a three-limbed framework could be applied (at [55]):
 (a) First, the court considered whether the offender had demonstrated a positive desire to change since the commission of the offence(s) (“the first limb”).
 (b) Second, the court considered whether there were conditions in the offender’s life that were conducive to helping him turn over a new leaf (“the second limb”).
 (c) If, after considering the first two limbs, the court came to a provisional view that the offender had demonstrated an extremely strong propensity for reform, the court ought then to consider, in light of the risk factors presented, whether there were reasons to revisit the finding of such a high capacity for reform (“the third limb”).
8 Under the first limb, the following were non-exhaustive factors that could indicate a positive desire to change: (a) evidence of genuine remorse, which could be seen from a plea of guilt or a full and frank disclosure of criminal activities beyond the offences for which the offender was presently charged; (b) the taking of active steps post-offence to leave his errant ways behind; (c) compliance with and amenability to rehabilitative measures; (d) not re-offending since the index offence(s); and (e) evidence showing that the index offence(s) were “out of character” – in this respect, an offender’s hitherto clean record and otherwise unexceptional conduct and temperament could be relevant in so far as it showed that the offences committed were likely an aberration: at [56].
9 As for the second limb, the key inquiry was whether the offender’s environment presented conditions that were conducive in helping him turn over a new leaf. This could be discerned from the following: (a) strong familial support; (b) the availability of an external support system from a romantic partner or otherwise; (c) external sources of motivation for reform, such as the need to provide for a young family; and (d) the availability of positive outlets, such as enrolment in school, vocational training or employment, which could also be conducive for the offender’s reform: at [57].
10 If, after considering the first and second limbs, the court came to a provisional view that the offender had demonstrated a sufficiently strong propensity for reform, the inquiry would shift to the risk factors, which included the offender’s association with negative peers, or the presence of bad habits such as an offender’s habitual drug use or dependence. Considering these risk factors, the court would be able to determine whether, in all the circumstances, the offender could indeed be said to have an “extremely strong propensity for reform”: at [58].
11 Even if the adult offender demonstrated an extremely strong propensity for reform, the significance of rehabilitation as the dominant sentencing consideration in such circumstances could be displaced, for instance, by a persistent need for deterrence and even retribution because of the gravity of the offence: at [27], [40], [52] and [60].
Application of framework to the facts
First limb – Positive desire to change
12 First considering the Respondent’s desire to change, the Court accepted that the Respondent had demonstrated a degree of remorse. This was seen by his cooperation with investigations after his arrest, that he intimated his wish to plead guilty at the earliest opportunity, that both his Probation Officer and psychiatrist stated that he expressed remorse for his actions and a degree of empathy for the victim, and that he had hand-written a letter of apology to the victim, albeit with legal advice. The Respondent had also admitted of his past conduct beyond the present offences that he had been charged with, and such candour went towards showing his repentance: at [61] and [62].
13 The report of the Respondent’s psychiatrist, as well as detailed responses by the Respondent’s counsellor, which were not available to the District Judge, were also relevant. Reviewing these, it became evident that, at least in the initial stages, the Respondent remained in denial about his culpability in relation to the offence, and he had told his psychiatrist that his repeated touching of the victim were accidental in nature. This somewhat reduced the weight to be placed on the letter of apology addressed to the victim. The overall tenor of the psychiatric report, as well as the responses by his counsellor, also showed that the sessions were mainly targetted at addressing the Respondent’s anxiety relating to the present proceedings, rather than to address the root causes of his offending behaviour. Once the details of these sessions were considered, it became apparent that the active steps which the Respondent’s undertook to get psychiatric help or psychological counselling were not especially suggestive of a personal commitment to reform: at [63]–[69]. 
14 There was also the Respondent’s consumption of pornography, which was a risk factor as it “increased his sexual preoccupation and contributed” to his cognitive distortions towards sexuality and social boundaries. While the Respondent had reported to his counsellor that he had stopped consuming pornography, he later reported to the Probation Officer that he had reduced his consumption of pornography after the offences were committed. As such, the Probation Officer considered that the Respondent’s consumption of pornography remained an area of concern which necessitated intervention. In light of the probation report, while the Court accepted that the Respondent had undertaken some efforts to curb his reliance on pornography, there was insufficient evidence to lead to the conclusion that there had been a complete cessation of pornographic use. At the highest, this reduced use of pornography demonstrated some measure of reform: at [70]–[72]. 
15 In addition, while the Respondent had not re-offended since the commission of the present offences, this was a factor of modest weight as it had only been 18 months since the offences were committed: at [73].
16 Finally, the present offences were not aberrant or “out of character”. The Respondent had a history of pornographic use and several instances of similar behaviour that had actually emboldened him to commit the present offences: at [74].
17 In the round, the Court could not say with conviction that the Respondent made out a very strong case for displacing deterrence as the dominant sentencing consideration: at [75]–[76]. 
Second limb – Environmental factors
18 Considering the second limb, the Court recognised that the Respondent remained positively engaged in school. However, this had to be viewed in light of his offending behaviour, which he appeared to be able to compartmentalise from other pro-social aspects of his life. In other words, the presence of such a positive outlet was not new, and was already present in his life while he was pursuing in parallel a pattern of behaviour involving the frequent consumption of pornography and inappropriate touching of females without their consent: at [77].
19 Furthermore, while his parents had expressed commitment to supervise the Respondent, the Court observed that the Respondent’s behaviour occurred in the most private of circumstances, such that parental intervention and supervision would likely not be feasible, especially within the Respondent’s conservative household: at [78]–[80]. 
Third limb – Risk factors
20 Flowing from the above analysis, the Court could not conclude, even provisionally, that the Respondent had demonstrated an extremely strong propensity for reform. In any event, the risk factors identified by the Probation Officer had not been adequately displaced. In all the circumstances, the Court held that the Respondent failed to demonstrate an extremely strong propensity for reform, and probation would thereby not be an appropriate sentencing option: at [81]–[82].
The appropriate sentence
21 Applying the sentencing framework set out in Kunasekaran s/o Kalimuthu Somasundara v Public Prosecutor [2018] 4 SLR 580 (“Kunasekaran”) for offences of outrage of modesty, the Court concluded that there was essentially one offence-specific aggravating factor, namely that the offences were committed on the public transport network, in respect of which Parliament had highlighted on several occasions a growing need for deterrence. A custodial sentence was therefore warranted in the present case. Nonetheless, the degree of sexual exploitation in the proceeded charge was low, as the touch was momentary and there was no skin-to-skin contact, and there was no evidence that the harm caused in this case was severe. The present case therefore fell within the lower end of Band 1 of the Kunasekaran framework: at [89].
22 Turning to the offender-specific factor, there were two TIC charges which, while not as severe as the proceeded charge, were of a similar nature, thereby justifying some increase in the sentence. Against this, the Respondent’s remorse and plea of guilt was accorded some mitigating weight: at [90].
23 In all, a sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment was deemed appropriate: at [91].

This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
