
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
23 April 2020
Case summary
Mohammad Azli bin Mohammad Salleh v Public Prosecutor and another appeal and other matters [2020] SGCA 39
Criminal Appeal Nos 1 and 2 of 2019 and Criminal Motion Nos 16 and 17 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: CoA allows an accused person’s appeal against conviction for drug trafficking, and remits the case of another accused person to the trial judge for additional evidence to be taken.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

The judgment explains the application of s 18(4) of the Misuse of Drugs Act, which provides for joint possession of drugs.
The court comments on the role of the Defence, the Prosecution and the trial judge in ensuring that the applicability of the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B of the Misuse of Drugs Act is considered prior to sentencing.

1 CA/CCA 1/2019 is the appeal against conviction and sentence by Mohammad Azli bin Mohammad Salleh (“Azli”). CA/CCA 2/2019 is the appeal against conviction and sentence by Roszaidi bin Osman (“Roszaidi”). In addition, Azli filed CA/CM 16/2019 (“CM 16/2019”) and Roszaidi filed CA/CM 17/2019 (“CM 17/2019”), both seeking leave to rely on additional grounds of appeal.
Background
2 On the night of 6 October 2015, Azli drove Roszaidi to Bulim Avenue. There, Roszaidi collected a red plastic bag from Aishamudin bin Jamaludin (“Aishamudin”) and Suhaizam bin Khariri (“Suhaizam”). The red plastic bag contained two packets of diamorphine and three packets of methamphetamine. Azli then drove Roszaidi to the vicinity of his residence in Jurong West, where Roszaidi handed a “Starmart” plastic bag containing the two packets of diamorphine and two of the packets of methamphetamine to his wife, Azidah binti Zainal (“Azidah”). The two packets of diamorphine contained a total of not less than 32.54g of diamorphine (“the Drugs”). This formed the subject matter of the charges under the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) against Azli, Roszaidi and Aishamudin, who were tried jointly for their role in trafficking the Drugs.

 a. Roszaidi was charged under s 5(1)(a) of the MDA for trafficking by giving the Drugs to Azidah.
 b.  Azli was charged under s 5(1)(a) read with s 12 of the MDA for abetting Roszaidi to traffic in the Drugs by intentionally aiding him – namely, by driving him to Bulim Avenue to collect the Drugs, and then to Jurong West to deliver the Drugs to Azidah.
 c.  Aishamudin was charged under s 5(1)(a) of the MDA read with s 34 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) for delivering the Drugs to Roszaidi in furtherance of a common intention with Suhaizam.
3 At the end of the trial, the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) convicted Azli and Roszaidi on their respective charges. The Judge amended the charge against Aishamudin to a non-capital charge, and convicted him of the amended charge.
4 In addition to Azli and Roszaidi’s appeals, the Prosecution also filed an appeal against the Judge’s amendment and reduction of the charge against Aishamudin in CA/CCA 4/2019. The court will address this appeal in a separate judgment which will be delivered at a later date.
The court’s decision regarding Roszaidi
5 Roszaidi submitted that he had resiled from his original intention to traffic in the Drugs, and instead intended for the Drugs to be returned to the trafficker who had originally arranged for him to collect them. This defence was rejected as an afterthought. Roszaidi never raised it until he was cross-examined at the trial. His evidence up to that point, that he was scared and found the quantity of the Drugs to be excessive, did not amount to resiling from an intention to traffic: at [11], [12], [16].
6 There was also no merit to the arguments that Roszaidi’s intentions in relation to the Drugs were inchoate, that the Prosecution had failed to adequately challenge his defence that he had had a change of heart, or that Roszaidi had no intention to deal in capital quantities of drugs: at [17] to [19].
7 In CM 17/2019, Roszaidi sought leave to rely on a further ground of appeal, namely, that he was eligible for the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B(3) of the MDA, and should therefore have been sentenced to life imprisonment. It appeared from the record of the proceedings below that the issue of the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B of the MDA was never canvassed. The court took the opportunity to highlight the importance of ensuring that the alternative sentencing regime is specifically canvassed in every trial involving a capital charge under the MDA. It is the duty of defence counsel to consider, at the earliest stage, whether their clients have a viable case under either s 33B(2) or s 33B(3). If the accused person is convicted of the capital charge, the Defence, the Prosecution and the trial judge are each responsible for considering the applicability of ss 33B(2) and 33B(3) prior to sentencing. This extends to the Prosecution intimating its position, in relevant cases, on whether it intends to issue the offender with a certificate of substantive assistance under s 33B(2)(b): at [21] and [34].
8 The evidence at trial suggested that it was plausible that Roszaidi’s circumstances in the present case may satisfy s 33B(3)(b) of the MDA. Therefore, prior to the hearing of the appeals, the court directed the parties to adduce additional evidence in the form of psychiatric reports. Since there were disagreements between the psychiatrists as to whether the limbs of s 33B(3)(b) were satisfied, it would not have been satisfactory for the court to have decided Roszaidi’s appeal against sentence on the basis of the existing evidence: at [32], [35] and [39].
9 As such, the court dismissed Roszaidi’s appeal against conviction, but allowed CM 17/2019 and remitted the issue of whether he qualified for the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B(3) of the MDA to the Judge for additional psychiatric evidence to be taken under s 392(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed): at [40] and [42].
The court’s decision regarding Azli
10 Azli submitted that there was no agreement between him and Roszaidi to collect and deliver drugs. He further submitted that he was not in joint possession of the Drugs with Roszaidi under s 18(4) of the MDA, as he did not know of or consent to Roszaidi bringing any drugs into his car: at [43].
11 Section 18(4) of the MDA provides:
 Where one of 2 or more persons with the knowledge and consent of the rest has any controlled drug in his possession, it shall be deemed to be in the possession of each and all of them.
 a. An accused person who falls within s 18(4) of the MDA is treated in the eyes of the law as being in the same position as if he were in actual possession of the drug, even if that person did not, strictly speaking, have physical possession of that drug. Section 18(4) is not a rebuttable presumption, but a definitional provision: at [51].
 b. “Consent” under s 18(4) of the MDA is not satisfied by mere acquiescence; rather, there had to be some dealing between the parties in relation to the drug: at [52].
 c. “Knowledge” under s 18(4) of the MDA is not satisfied merely by knowledge of the existence of the thing that turns out to be the drug. It is only meaningful to say that one knows of and consents to another being in possession of an object if one has at least some relevant knowledge of the nature of that object. Since the aim of s 18(4) of the MDA is to fix with possession those who know of and consent to another person being in possession of controlled drugs, the relevant knowledge would be the fact that the object is a controlled drug. On the other hand, knowledge of the nature of the drug is not needed in order to establish the fact of joint possession: at [66] and [67].
12 In CM 16/2019, Azli sought leave to argue that s 18(4) of the MDA could only apply in respect of persons who were part of a group which was arrested together, and where the drugs were in the possession of a member of that group at the time of arrest. The court found that there was simply no principled reason for construing s 18(4) in this way, and therefore dismissed CM 16/2019: at [44], [73] and [74].
13 Azli knew, when he set off to drive Roszaidi around, that Roszaidi was going to be involved in drug-related activities. Azli’s reference in his cautioned statement to a “meet-up … to collect ice and then go back” could not be made sense of in any other way. A weighing scale was also found in Azli’s car, which Azli said he had bought for Roszaidi on the latter’s instructions. The court found Azli’s claim that he did not know what Roszaidi intended to use it for to be incredible. The court also found Azli to have consented to Roszaidi being in possession of the Drugs while he was being transported in Azli’s car. As such, Azli was in joint possession of the Drugs: at [82], [84] and [87].
14 In his contemporaneous statement, Azli had named the drugs Roszaidi collected as “Sejuk and Panas” (referring to methamphetamine and diamorphine respectively). The court rejected Azli’s claim that this answer was recorded inaccurately. However, although the court therefore rejected Azli’s contention that he had no knowledge at all about Roszaidi’s drug-related activities when he agreed to drive him, it was nonetheless incumbent on the court to examine whether Azli had other lines of defence open to him on the state of the evidence. The crucial question was whether Azli knew specifically that the Drugs were diamorphine. However, Azli’s reference in his contemporaneous statement to “Sejuk and Panas” was silent as to the time at which Azli acquired the knowledge of the nature of the drugs: at [89], [90], [92] and [99].
15 The court found that the more plausible interpretation of Azli’s answer in his contemporaneous statement was that it referred to Azli’s knowledge at the time of the recording of the contemporaneous statement, and not at the time when he was facilitating Roszaidi’s actions. This was especially since Azli had positively stated his belief that Roszaidi was only dealing in methamphetamine in his cautioned statement recorded later that same day, and Azli was never challenged on or asked to clarify this: at [99] to [101].
16 As for Roszaidi’s evidence, which at some points incriminated Azli, this took two abrupt turns, from absolving Azli of liability, to implicating him, and back to absolving him again. The only safe conclusion to draw was that Roszaidi’s evidence against Azli was simply unreliable. There was also no other reliable evidence that Azli knew the Drugs were diamorphine: at [105] to [107].
17 The court found Azli to have rebutted the presumption under s 18(2) that he knew the Drugs were diamorphine. The most that can be said is that Azli believed Roszaidi was going to collect and transport methamphetamine on the night of the offence. For the same reasons, there is no basis for a finding that Azli had actual knowledge or was wilfully blind to the nature of the Drugs. The court therefore allowed Azli’s appeal and acquitted him of the charge: at [108], [110] and [111].
18 There was also another reason Azli’s conviction for trafficking could not stand. Azli’s charge of abetment by intentionally aiding Roszaidi required the Prosecution to establish that Azli was aware that Roszaidi intended to traffic in diamorphine. The evidence demonstrates, at best, only that Azli knew of Roszaidi’s involvement in drug trafficking in general, as opposed to his having known of and agreed to assist Roszaidi in trafficking in diamorphine at the material time of the offence: at [112].
19 There was no charge before the court concerning Azli’s involvement with the methamphetamine. As there had therefore been no consideration of the facts pertaining to the methamphetamine, the court did not think it appropriate to consider amending the charge against Azli. Instead, it was left as a matter for the Prosecution to consider whether it wished to pursue any charge in this respect: at [113].
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
