

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


8 November 2019


Case summary



Ong Wui Teck (personal representative of the estate of Chew Chen Chin,
deceased) v Ong Wui Swoon and another and another appeal

[2019] SGCA 61



Civil Appeals Nos 178 of 2017 and 31 of 2019


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon
Leong):



Outcome: Court of Appeal allows the appellant’s appeal in relation to
claims made and awarded against his deceased mother’s estate, but dismisses
his appeal in relation to claims for further sums of executor’s commission.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· Apart from the requirements of offer, acceptance and consideration, there
must also be an intention to create legal relations on the part of the
parties concerned in order for a binding and enforceable agreement to
arise. Specifically, where an arrangement is made in the domestic or social
context, there is a presumption that the parties do not intend for the
legal consequences to follow, that is, there is no intention to create
legal relations (at [45]).


· A personal representative ceases to be an executor and administrator only
after all the assets of the estate have been vested in the personal
representative, and the estate has been fully administered. Before the
debts and liabilities of the estate have been fully settled, the
beneficiaries to the will cannot claim to have a beneficial interest in the
assets of the estate, and the personal representative cannot be regarded as
a trustee over those assets (at [66] and    [68]).


Introduction


1 The appellant (“the Appellant”) is the eldest son of the deceased (“the
Deceased”) and the sole executor and trustee of the Deceased’s will and
estate (“the Will” and “the Estate” respectively). The respondents are also
the children of the Deceased and beneficiaries under the Will (“the
Respondents”). The first respondent is the Deceased’s daughter (“the First
Respondent”) and the second respondent is the Deceased’s son (“the Second
Respondent”) (at [1]).


Background to the appeal


2 On 7 August 2014, the Appellant filed the underlying application in the
High Court (“the Application”), claiming, among other things, various sums
which were allegedly unaccounted for by the Respondents on behalf of the
Estate. At the first hearing of the Application, the First Respondent
raised the issue of the Deceased’s medical expenses that she had allegedly
paid for on the Deceased’s behalf. The Appellant denied these claims on the
basis that the Deceased had paid for her own medical expenses while she was
alive. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) held that the First Respondent’s
claim for the medical expenses that she had incurred on the Deceased’s
behalf was a claim for a debt as a creditor of the Estate, and that she
should make a claim with the Appellant for this debt. At the next hearing
of the Application, the Judge decided that the best way forward would be to
allow the Respondents to raise any claims they had against the Estate as
counterclaims in the Application, so that all possible claims could be
dealt with at once thus making it unnecessary to set aside any sum of money
as a contingency for future claims. The matter was adjourned for the
Respondents to file further affidavits in support of any counterclaims they
may have had against the Estate (at [2],    [11] and [12]).


3 The First Respondent subsequently filed an affidavit stating that she
wished to make a claim against the Estate for, among other things, (a)
$20,000 that was promised to her by the Deceased; and (b) reimbursement for
the Deceased’s cancer medication expenses, including interest on those
amounts (“the Medical Expenses Claim”). The Second Respondent also filed an
affidavit stating that he too wished to make a claim for the $20,000 that
was also promised to him by the Deceased (the Respondents’ claims for
$20,000 are collectively referred to as “the $20,000 Claims”) (at    [3], [13] and [14]).


4 The Appellant filed further submissions claiming various administration
costs from the Estate (“the Administration Costs Claims”). This claim
comprised, among other things: (a) “accounting costs” for accountancy
services provided by the Appellant’s wife in the administration of the
Estate in the sum of $10,000 (“the Accounting Costs Claim”) and (b) work
done by the Appellant as a litigant-in-person representing the Estate in
the sum of $20,000 (“the Litigation Costs Claim”) (at [15]
).

The decision of the High Court 

5 The Judge concluded that the Deceased owed a debt of $20,000 to each of
the Respondents and allowed the $20,000 Claims on that basis. The Judge
held that at the point in time when the Deceased was making the Will, she
acknowledged that she did owe money to her children and that she should
return the moneys she had previously received from them. The Judge further
relied on the specific use of the word “return” in cl 3.1 of the Will, in
relation to the $50,000 bequeathed to the Appellant, as an indication that
the Deceased had treated the sum as a repayment of a debt (at    [22]).


6 The Judge allowed the Medical Expenses claim in the amount of $13,597.10.
The Judge found that there was sufficient evidence, in the form of the
First Respondent’s American Express credit card statements and Medisave
statements, to prove that she had actually incurred medical expenses on the
Deceased’s behalf. The Judge further noted that “there was a pattern of
conduct by the [Deceased], when she was alive, to repay [the First
Respondent] the medical expenses incurred by the [First Respondent] on the
[Deceased’s] behalf”. There was no evidence to show that the First
Respondent had been reimbursed for these expenses incurred by her. The
Judge found that there was some credibility in the First Respondent’s
story, on the basis that she had admitted to being reimbursed for some
items which were not minor. However, the Judge rejected the claim for
interest on the payments made (at [24] and     [25]).


7 The Judge dismissed the Accounting Costs Claim and the Litigation Costs
Claim. The Judge held that the claim for accounting services provided by
the Appellant’s wife and the Appellant’s own time costs as a
litigant-in-person representing the Estate were in effect claims for
executor’s remuneration and commission. With regard to the Accounting Costs
Claim, the Judge found that the Appellant’s wife was “assisting the
[Appellant] voluntarily and gratuitously in her personal capacity”, and
that she was “not running a business as an accountant and [was] not engaged
by the [Appellant] as an arms-length service supplier to the Estate” (at    [26]). As for the Litigation Costs Claim, the Judge stated
that as a consequence of the “fundamental rule in equity that no one who
has a duty to perform shall place himself in a situation to have his
interests conflict with that duty”, an executor is not entitled to
remuneration for personal trouble and loss of time in the execution of his
duties. He went on to state that in Singapore, the exception to this rule
can be found in s 66 of the Probate and Administration Act (Cap 251, 2000
Rev Ed) (“PAA”), which provides that a court may in its discretion allow
the executor a commission not exceeding 5% of the value of the assets
collected by them. Since the Judge had previously allowed the Appellant’s
claim for a commission of $75,000, which amounted to the maximum commission
allowed under s 66, the court had no further discretion to allow a
commission above the statutory limit (at [27] and    [28]).


 


The decision of the Court of Appeal


8 Notwithstanding that the amount in dispute may be less than $250,000, the
Appellant did not require leave of court to bring the present appeals.
Section 34(2)(a) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322,
2007 Rev Ed) (“SCJA”) states that any case where the amount in dispute, or
the value of the subject matter, at the hearing before the High Court does
not exceed $250,000 can be appealed to the Court of Appeal only with leave
of court. However, para 3(d) of the Fifth Schedule to the SCJA
states that s 34(2)(a) does not apply to contentious probate
proceedings commenced in the High Court before 1 January 2015. The
Application was commenced at first instance in the High Court on 7 August
2014. Therefore, s 34(2)(a) of the SCJA did not apply and leave to
appeal was not required (at [41]).


9 Claims for repayment of debts made against deceased persons should be
supported by compelling evidence, given that the deceased persons would be
unable to rebut such claims posthumously (at [44]).


10 Apart from the requirements of offer, acceptance and consideration,
there must also be an intention to create legal relations on the part of
the parties concerned in order for a binding and enforceable agreement to
arise. Specifically, where an arrangement is made in the domestic or social
context, there was a presumption that the parties did not intend for legal
consequences to follow (at [45]).


11 There was nothing in the evidence to rebut the presumption that there
was no intention to create legal relations. The Deceased was lying on a
hospital bed when the Second Respondent arrived and began questioning her
about the $50,000 that was allegedly being “returned” to the Appellant
pursuant to the Will. When the Appellant explained that this was in
“repayment” for the $800 monthly allowances that the Appellant had given
the Deceased throughout the years, the Second Respondent argued that he
should be entitled to at least $20,000 given that he had given the Deceased
an allowance of $300 per month. It was only as a result of the Second
Respondent’s complaint that the Deceased agreed to give him $20,000 after
she was discharged from hospital. When the lawyer drafting the Will asked
the Deceased if there was anyone else she wanted to give money to, the
Deceased initially said no, but relented and agreed to give $20,000 to both
Respondents. Crucially, the Deceased declined to include these amounts in
the Will. If the Deceased had truly intended for her promise of $20,000 to
have legal effect, there was no reason for her not to include it in the
Will. Further, if she had intended for the moneys to be in repayment for a
debt owed to the Respondents, there was no reason for her to insist that
she make payment herself after she was discharged from hospital. Yet
further, there would at least have been some attempt on her part to
determine the exact amount that was due. Instead, the Deceased decided to
give the same lump sum figure to each of the Respondents. The Deceased’s
behaviour was more consistent with a mother attempting to pacify her
children for their complaints of being treated unfairly, as opposed to
someone who genuinely believed that she owed a legal debt to her children
and who had wanted to repay them (at [47] and     [48]).


12 The Respondents contended that the $20,000 was in repayment for the
monthly allowances that the Respondents had given the Deceased. It is
presumed that monthly payments made by children to their aged mother are
intended to be gratuitous contributions to their mother’s living expenses.
No evidence was adduced to show that these monthly allowances were
intended, instead, to be loans which had to be repaid. There was similarly
no evidence to show that the First Respondent had intended to be
remunerated for her effort in looking after the Deceased (at    [49]).


13 The Judge should not have placed so much emphasis on just the use of the
word “return”. First, the use of the word “return” did not necessarily lead
to the inference that the $50,000 was intended to be repayment for a debt,
given that there could be multiple interpretations of the word depending on
the context in which it is used. In any event, the use of the word “return”
was irrelevant to the legal character of the $50,000. Second, the
Deceased’s refusal to include the $20,000 payments in the Will clearly
demonstrated that the Deceased had intended to treat the $20,000
differently from the $50,000. Therefore, even if the Deceased had intended
to treat the $50,000 as repayment of a debt, the same could not necessarily
be said of the $20,000. The decisions of District Judge James Leong and
Chan Sek Keong CJ in Ong Wui Teck v Ong Wui Jin and others [2008]
SGDC 103 and Ong Wui Jin and others v Ong Wui Teck [2009] SGHC 50,
respectively, were concerned primarily with determining whether the Will
was valid, therefore any observations made in their judgments should not be
taken as their findings in relation to the legal nature of these sums (at    [50] and [51]).


14 The Court of Appeal (“CA”) agreed with the Judge that the documents
adduced by the First Respondent were sufficient to prove that she had
actually incurred medical expenses on behalf of the Deceased (at    [54]). However, the CA agreed with the Appellant that
given the mother-daughter relationship between the Deceased and the First
Respondent, there was a presumption that any payments made by the latter on
the former’s behalf were intended to be gratuitous payments for which she
did not expect to be reimbursed. There was insufficient evidence for this
presumption to be displaced for the following reasons. First, there was a
complete lack of documentary evidence to prove that the First Respondent
had in fact been reimbursed by the Deceased, let alone that there was an
agreement for her to be reimbursed. The mere fact that there was a “pattern
of conduct” by which the Deceased reimbursed the First Respondent did not
in and of itself mean that there was an agreement for the First Respondent
to be reimbursed. Given the familial relationship between the parties, it
was presumed that the medical expenses incurred by the First Respondent on
the Deceased’s behalf, and the reimbursement that she would subsequently
receive, were made out of goodwill as opposed to a legal obligation.
Secondly, the First Respondent’s own evidence that she was reimbursed for
some medical expenses but not for others ran counter to any suggestion that
there was an agreement for the First Respondent to be reimbursed whenever
she paid for the Deceased’s medical expenses. Thirdly, if there was in fact
an agreement for the First Respondent to be reimbursed, it was puzzling
that she did not seek reimbursement while the Deceased was still alive, or
at the very latest as the Will was being drafted. Contrary to what the
Judge had found, the CA considered that the Estate was irreparably
prejudiced by the Medical Expenses Claim being made only after the Deceased
had passed away (at [55] to [58]).


15 The main thrust of the Appellant’s argument on the Accounting Costs
Claim and Litigation Costs Claim was that, having collected the assets of
the Estate, the Appellant was no longer an executor and administrator but
was instead a trustee of the Will. Therefore, it was the Trustees Act (Cap
337, 2005 Rev Ed), and not the PAA, which governed his and his wife’s
entitlement to remuneration for services provided on behalf of the Estate
(at [61]).


16 A personal representative ceases to be an executor and administrator
only after all the assets of the estate have been vested in the personal
representative, and the estate has been fully administered. This involves
getting in all the assets of the estate, paying for any funeral,
testamentary and administrative expenses, and satisfying all outstanding
debts against the estate. This also accorded with the terms of the Will,
which provides at cl 3 that all of the Deceased’s property is bequeathed
upon her trustee subject to payment of the Deceased’s debts, funeral and
testamentary expenses. It followed that before the debts and liabilities of
the estate had been fully settled, the beneficiaries to the will could not
claim to have a beneficial interest in the assets of the estate, since some
of the assets may have to be used in satisfaction of the said debts and
liabilities. Therefore, if the beneficiaries did not have an equitable
interest in the assets of the Estate, the personal representative could not
be regarded as a trustee over those assets (at [64] and    [66]). Given that the Litigation Costs Claim and the
Accounting Costs Claim were claims for expenses allegedly incurred in the
administration of the Estate, it was clear that these were claims made by
the Appellant in his capacity as executor of the Estate. Accordingly, the
appropriate statutory provision which governed the duties, rights and
powers of the Appellant in his capacity as executor was the PAA.
Accordingly, the CA did not find any merit in the suggestion that the
Appellant was authorised to appoint and remunerate his wife for providing
accounting services in the execution of the trust pursuant to the Trustees
Act. Similarly, the Trustees Act did not apply to govern the Appellant’s
remuneration for services that he had allegedly rendered to the Estate as a
litigant-in-person in defending against the Respondents’ counterclaims.
Therefore, since the Appellant had previously been awarded executor’s
commission amounting to 5% of the assets collected, he was statutorily
barred from being awarded further sums by virtue of s 66 of the PAA (at    [67], [69] and [70]).


17 Even if s 43 of the Trustees Act were applicable, the discretion to
award remuneration for services rendered as a trustee of the Estate vested
solely in the court. While the personal representative was entitled to out
of pocket expenses, he was not (unless the will provided otherwise)
entitled to remuneration for personal trouble and loss of time in the
execution of his duties. Remuneration might be awarded if a trustee had
performed services of an exceptionally onerous character which could
properly be regarded as wholly outside the scope of any duties which could
reasonably have been expected to be rendered by trustees in the normal
course of their duties. In the present case, the services rendered by the
Appellant in the administration of the Estate were not particularly
exceptional or onerous. Therefore, even if the Appellant were to be
regarded as a trustee, the CA saw no reason to award him with remuneration
(at [71] to [73]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


