

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


24 March 2020


Case summary



Steep Rise Limited v Attorney-General [2020] SGCA 20

Civil Appeal No 30 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Tay Yong
Kwang):



Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against the High Court’s decision to
uphold a restraint order under the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters
Act (“MACMA”), prohibiting dealings with the funds in the appellant’s bank
account.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· The AG has a duty of full and frank disclosure when making    ex parte applications to the court under MACMA. 


· The precise scope of the AG’s duty is not the same as that which applies
in ex parte applications in civil matters generally. In the
context of MACMA, the duty is limited to requiring the AG to disclose all
material facts relating to the application that are within the AG’s actual
knowledge.


· Unlike in a Mareva injunction, in an application for a MACMA
restraint order in support of a potential foreign confiscation order, the
AG does not need to prove that there is a risk of dissipation of the
relevant asset.


1 This was an appeal against the decision of the High Court Judge (“the
Judge”) declining to discharge an order which restrained any dealings with
the funds deposited in the appellant’s bank account with the Bank of
Singapore (“the BOS Account”). The restraint order was made under the MACMA
pursuant to a request received by the AG for mutual legal assistance in
French criminal investigations.


Background facts


2 The appellant is a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and
is beneficially owned by Mr Fabrice Touil, a French citizen.


3 Pursuant to investigations into Value Added Tax (“VAT”) fraud and
money-laundering in France, the French authorities detected suspicious
transfers of money into bank accounts located in Singapore. One of those
bank accounts was the BOS Account owned by the appellant. The French
authorities sent official letters of request to the AG in 2014 and 2015 for
assistance in obtaining documentation on and freezing those accounts.


4 In August 2017, the AG filed an application to the High Court to restrain
the appellant, Mr Touil and the Bank of Singapore from dealing with the
funds in the BOS Account. The application was made under the MACMA, which
empowers the court to restrain property in Singapore that may be the
subject of confiscation orders in foreign criminal proceedings. The
application was made ex parte (without notice to the appellant).
The Judge allowed the application and granted the restraint order sought.


5 In July 2018, the appellant applied to the High Court to vary the
restraint order to allow Mr Touil to withdraw funds from the BOS Account to
pay for legal representation. Mr Touil deposed in his affidavit that the
BOS Account had been seized by the Singapore police in the context of
domestic criminal investigations since August 2016, one year before the
restraint order was applied for.


6 Subsequently, the appellant applied to discharge the restraint order. The
appellant argued that the AG did not give full and frank disclosure of
material facts in obtaining the restraint order from the Judge, and that
the legal requirements for obtaining the restraint order under the MACMA
were not met. In particular, the appellant relied on two matters. First, it
argued that the French authorities were seeking the restraint orders not to
support a potential confiscation order but to secure potential fines meted
out by the French court. Second, the appellant also argued that the BOS
Account was already subject to the domestic seizure order at the time of
the AG’s application and the funds were at no risk of being dissipated.


7 The Judge dismissed the application to discharge the restraint order,
finding that there was no material non-disclosure by the AG. The Judge also
held that a risk of dissipation need not be shown before a restraint order
may be granted, on the basis that such a requirement was not stated in the
MACMA.


The decision on appeal


8 The Court of Appeal dismissed the appellant’s arguments on appeal and
upheld the Judge’s decision to continue the restraint order. In so doing,
the Court of Appeal took the opportunity to clarify the principles on which
applications in aid of foreign criminal proceedings may be made under the
MACMA.



AG’s duty of full and frank disclosure in MACMA applications



9 The Court of Appeal held that there is a duty of full and frank
disclosure on the part of the AG when he makes an ex parte
application under the MACMA. However, the Court noted that the precise
scope of the AG’s duty in a MACMA application should not be the same as
that which applies in ex parte applications in civil matters
generally: at [24].


10 In civil matters, the applicant must disclose not only material facts
known to him but also such facts as he would have discovered after making
reasonable inquiries. In a MACMA application, however, the AG is
constrained by the information he receives from the foreign country
requesting Singapore’s assistance. Where the information provided meets the
requirements under MACMA, the AG has a duty to make the application to the
court. Failure to do so could cause Singapore to be in breach of its
international obligations to the requesting country: at    [25] and [26].


11 The Court therefore limited the AG’s duty of full and frank disclosure
in MACMA applications to a duty to disclose all material facts relating to
the application that are within the AG’s actual knowledge. The AG does not
have a positive duty to investigate further into the facts provided by the
foreign authority if the information provided is otherwise sufficient to
satisfy the MACMA requirements: at [27].


12 On the facts, the AG did not breach his duty of full and frank
disclosure. The letters of request sent by the French authorities in 2014
and 2015 did reveal that the restraint order was sought for both a
potential confiscation order and the securing of payment for a fine.
However, by the time of the AG’s application, the French authorities had
confirmed that the sole purpose for the order was to confiscate the
proceeds of fraud and of money-laundering. The AG was therefore under no
duty to inform the Judge that the initial requests suggested an additional
purpose for seeking the restraint order: at [31],    [32] and [33].




No requirement to show risk of dissipation in MACMA restraint
orders




13 Turning to the issue of whether a risk of dissipation must be shown
before a restraint order is granted, the Court of Appeal held that there
was no basis for imposing this requirement. First, a risk of dissipation
was nowhere stated as a requirement under the MACMA nor did it feature in
the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (2000),
which was the impetus for Singapore’s enactment of the MACMA: at    [37].


14 Second, a closer examination of the structure of the MACMA revealed that
Parliament intended to leave any assessment of the need for or importance
of the order to the AG alone. The fact that a restraint order is strictly
unnecessary due to the absence of a risk of dissipation is not a ground on
which the court can refuse to grant the order once the AG makes the
application to the court: at [39] and    [40].


15 The Court of Appeal declined to follow English authorities which had
accepted that a risk of dissipation must be shown to obtain a restraint
order in both domestic criminal cases and in requests for mutual legal
assistance. It was more consonant with the legislative scheme of the MACMA
in Singapore to hold that a risk of dissipation was not a requirement for
obtaining a restraint order. Accordingly, there was no reason to discharge
the MACMA restraint order for failure to demonstrate a risk of dissipation:
at [41], [44] and [45].


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


