

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


28 February 2020


Case summary



Lee Shing Chan v Public Prosecutor and another matter 


[2020] SGHC 41



Magistrate’s Appeals Nos 9088 and 9089 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Decision of the Court (delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JA):


Outcome: Court dismisses appellants’ appeals against conviction but allows
their appeals against sentence for charges of unlawful stalking under s 7
of the Protection from Harassment Act (Cap 256A, 2015 Rev Ed) (“POHA”), and
substitutes their sentences of four months’ imprisonment each with two
weeks’ imprisonment each.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


· Court provides guidance on when conduct on a single occasion is
“protracted” so as to qualify as a “course of conduct” under s 7(2) of the
POHA: at [21], [22], and    [23].


· Court sets out sentencing framework applicable to offences under s 7 of
the POHA: at [34] and [35].


· Court explains the relevance of the fact that victims of unlawful
stalking are law enforcement officers to conviction and sentence: at    [29] and [39].


Background


1 The appellants, Mr Lee Shing Chan (“Lee”) and Mr Tan Ah Lai (“Tan”), were
unlicensed fruit hawkers. On 6 June 2016 at about 6.45pm, they along with
one Mr Chow Yong Heng (“Chow”) were spotted selling fruits illegally near
Yew Tee MRT station by two National Environment Agency (“NEA”) officers
(“Shammir” and “Siow”). Tan was issued a summons for being an unlicensed
hawker, and the fruits and two wooden planks that formed part of a
makeshift display table were seized. After issuing the summons, the NEA
team – comprising Shammir, Siow, their driver and a CISCO auxiliary police
officer (“APO”) – left in a van (“the NEA Van”).


2 The appellants and Chow followed the NEA Van in their lorry (“the Lorry”)
to various destinations over the span of about three hours from around 7pm
to 10pm. This included following the NEA Van back to the NEA office (where
the NEA team unloaded the seized items during their shift), and
subsequently after the NEA Van departed from the NEA office. Along the way,
there was also an incident at a carpark (“the Seah Im carpark”) where both
vehicles were parked for the time being. Siow had alighted from the NEA Van
to take photographs of the Lorry. Lee, Tan and Chow then alighted from the
Lorry and Lee demanded to see Siow’s warrant card. When Siow refused to
produce his warrant card, Lee and Tan hurled vulgarities in the Hokkien
dialect at Siow. The driver and the APO alighted from the NEA Van and when
they and Siow tried to get back into the NEA Van, Lee stood in front of it
and held onto its doors. Chow did not take part in this confrontation.


3 Arising from the above, Lee and Tan were each charged with one count of
using abusive words towards a public servant in relation to the execution
of his duty as such public servant, an offence under s 6 of the POHA. They
were also each charged with one count of unlawful stalking with the common
intention to cause alarm, an offence under s 7 of the POHA read with s 34
of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed).


4 Chow had pleaded guilty to the s 7 charge against him (he was not charged
under s 6 as he did not take part in the confrontation at the Seah Im
carpark) in earlier proceedings and was sentenced to undergo three months’
imprisonment. At the time of the hearing before the Court, Chow had already
served his sentence.


The decision at first instance


5 Lee pleaded guilty to the s 6 charge and claimed trial in respect of the
s 7 charge. Tan claimed trial for both his charges. The appellants were
tried jointly and conducted their own defences.


6 In the State Courts, the Magistrate (“the Magistrate”) convicted the
appellants on all the charges against them. Lee was sentenced to one week’s
imprisonment for the s 6 charge and four months’ imprisonment for the s 7
charge. Tan was sentenced to nine days’ imprisonment and four months’
imprisonment for the corresponding charges. The Magistrate ordered the
sentences for each appellant to run consecutively. Lee and Tan appealed
against their convictions and sentences in respect of the s 7 charges.


Issues on appeal


7 The issues on appeal were: (a) whether the elements of unlawful stalking
were proved beyond a reasonable doubt, in particular, whether there was a
“course of conduct” although the appellants followed the NEA Van on only
one occasion; and (b) whether the sentences should stand in the light of
what this Court determined to be the applicable sentencing framework.


The Court’s decision on the appeals against conviction


8 On the question of when conduct on a single occasion is “protracted” so
as to qualify as a “course of conduct” under s 7(2) of the POHA, the Court
held that this was a fact-sensitive assessment that had to be made as a
matter of common sense. The court had to look at all the circumstances,
including the type, intensity and intrusiveness of the conduct. To be
protracted, conduct did not have to be continuous or uninterrupted. It was
invariably a matter of degree as to when seemingly innocuous behaviour
turned into a course of conduct of acts or omissions associated with
stalking. Generally, if the conduct on a single occasion was engaged in for
longer than would reasonably be considered sensible in the circumstances,
that would be a pointer towards it fulfilling the meaning of protracted
conduct under s 7(10) of the POHA. The assessment of whether conduct was
“protracted” under s 7(10)(a)(i) was essentially a qualitative
rather than a purely quantitative exercise. The court had to be satisfied
that there was a certain degree of persistence or continuity of purpose
which was unreasonable in the particular circumstances. To avoid
artificiality, too much emphasis ought not to be placed on whether conduct
was better classified as happening on one or multiple occasions (at    [21], [22], and [23]).


9 In the present appeals, the appellants’ conduct was protracted because
they had followed the NEA Van to numerous destinations over a three-hour
period. They persisted in doing so even after the NEA Van returned to the
NEA office during their shift and the seized goods had been unloaded. The
other elements under s 7 of the POHA were also established. The appellants
did not deny having followed the NEA Van. Their other contentions were
essentially an appeal against the Magistrate’s findings of fact, and the
Court was not satisfied that the Magistrate erred in her detailed
assessment of the evidence (at [24], [25] and    [26]).


10 The Court also held that the fact that the alleged victims of unlawful
stalking were law enforcement officers, whether on duty or off duty, did
not prevent a conviction under s 7 of the POHA if all the elements of the
offence specified in s 7(2) were established (at [29]).


11 Accordingly, the Court found that the s 7 POHA charges against Lee and
Tan had been proved beyond reasonable doubt and dismissed their appeals
against conviction (at [30]).


The Court’s decision on the appeals against sentence


12 On the issue of the appropriate sentencing framework, the Court held
that merely analogising from precedents was unsatisfactory as the lack of
structure and guidance was not conducive to building consistency across
cases. On the other hand, the mathematical approach of a points system in    Lim Teck Kim v Public Prosecutor [2019] 5 SLR 279 should not be
adopted as it constrained the sentencing judge unduly and raised the
spectre of appeals on the allocation of points. A more holistic approach
based on the five-step methodology in    Logachev Vladislav v Public Prosecutor [2018] 4 SLR 609 was
appropriate. Therefore, in each case the court should (at    [34] and [35]):


(a) Identify the level of harm caused by the offence (slight, moderate or
severe) and level of culpability (low, medium or high), having regard to
the offence-specific factors.


(b) Identify the applicable indicative sentencing range by reference to the
following matrix.







Harm


Culpability 




Slight




Moderate




Severe






Low




            Fine / short custodial sentence of up to 2 months
            



            2+ to 4 months’ imprisonment
            



            4+ to 6 months’ imprisonment
            





Medium




            2+ to 4 months’ imprisonment
            



            4+ to 6 months’ imprisonment
            



            6+ to 9 months’ imprisonment
            





High




            4+ to 6 months’ imprisonment
            



            6+ to 9 months’ imprisonment
            



            9+ to 12 months’ imprisonment
            






(c) Identify the appropriate starting point within that range, having
regard again to the offence-specific factors.


(d) Adjust the starting point based on offender-specific aggravating and
mitigating factors.


(e) Where an offender has been convicted of multiple charges, consider
whether further adjustments are necessary to take into account the totality
principle.


13 The Court held that the fact that the victim was a public servant or
public transport worker (including a law enforcement officer) was an
offence-specific aggravating factor. However, this would only be the case
if the offender knew that the victim was a public servant or public service
worker who was in the course of discharging his or her duty or the unlawful
stalking was precipitated by what the victim said or did while in the
course of discharging his or her duty. The Court disagreed that the default
starting point should be a short custodial sentence whenever this
aggravating factor was present (at [39]).


14 Applying this framework, the present case occasioned slight harm and low
(or perhaps the low end of medium) culpability. The appropriate starting
point was an imprisonment term. The custodial threshold was crossed having
regard to the specific aggravating factor that the appellants knew that the
victims were public officers going about their duties that night and were
apparently undeterred by the presence of the APO. The Court also noted that
there was a lack of remorse on the appellants’ part. In all the
circumstances, a sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment for each appellant
would be appropriate. As the s 6 charges (which were not the subject of any
appeal) took place as an offshoot of the s 7 charges and were essentially
part of the train of events that night, the imprisonment terms for both
offences ought to run concurrently. The result was that Lee and Tan would
each serve an aggregate sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment which the Court
considered was a just punishment on the facts of this case (at [    42]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


