

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


28 February 2020


Case summary


Han Fang Guan v Public Prosecutor 
[2020] SGCA 11



Criminal Appeal No 31 of 2018


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):



Outcome: CoA overturns the appellant’s conviction and sentence on
a capital drug charge, and adjourns the case pending submissions from the
Prosecution on whether the existing charge should be amended.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· To sustain a conviction on a charge of attempting to possess controlled
drugs for the purpose of trafficking under s 5(1)(a) read with s
5(2) and s 12 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed), the
Prosecution has to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused person:
(a) intended to possess the drugs in question and knew the nature of the
drugs; and (b) intended to traffic in those drugs: at [33]
.


· Whether an attempt to commit an offence that could not possibly have been
consummated in the circumstances (an “impossible attempt”) amounts to a
criminal attempt should be assessed through a two-stage framework. At the
first stage, the court examines whether there was a specific intention to
commit a criminal act. If so, then at the second stage, the court examines
whether there were sufficient acts by the accused person in furtherance of
that intention. A conviction may only be arrived at if the answer to this
is “yes”: at [108].


Introduction


1 The appellant, Han Fang Guan (“Han”), claimed trial to a capital charge
of attempting to possess one bundle containing not less than 18.62g of
diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking, an offence under s 5(1)(    a) read with s 5(2) and s 12 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185,
2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). Following a six-day trial, the High Court judge (“the
Judge”) found that the charge against Han was made out and convicted him.
As Han was not issued a certificate of substantive assistance by the Public
Prosecutor and the Judge found that he was not a mere courier, the
mandatory death sentence was imposed on him. Han appealed against his
conviction and sentence.


Background to the appeal


2 Sometime before 2 March 2016, Han contacted his drug supplier in
Malaysia, one “Lao Ban”, to place an order for drugs. On the night of 1
March 2016, one Khor Chong Seng (“Khor”), who was tried jointly with Han,
collected two motorcycle helmets containing several bundles of drugs from
Lao Ban in Malaysia. On 2 March 2016, at about 12.10am, while entering
Singapore through Woodlands Checkpoint, Khor was stopped and searched by
officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”). The CNB officers found
a total of seven bundles of controlled drugs on Khor: (a) three large
bundles wrapped in black tape, each of which contained diamorphine; (b) one
small bundle wrapped in black tape, which contained methamphetamine; and
(c) three bundles wrapped with transparent tape, each of which contained
nimetazepam tablets.


3 Khor informed the CNB officers that he had been tasked to deliver the
drugs to recipients in Singapore, and agreed to assist the CNB officers in
a follow-up operation against the intended drug recipients. Shortly after
2.00am on 2 March 2016, Lao Ban called Khor and instructed him to deliver
one yellow bundle to “T”, two yellow bundles to “99” and the rest to “Ah
Ken”. Lao Ban also told Khor to collect $3,600 from T. At 2.44am, Lao Ban
called Khor again and informed Khor that he would ask T to call Khor. At
2.47am, Han called Khor and introduced himself as T. Subsequently, over
four phone calls between 4.02am and 4.40am, Han and Khor made arrangements
to meet at Toa Payoh. A CNB officer assumed the place of Khor and travelled
to the designated meeting place in a taxi. After the CNB officer confirmed
Han’s identity from within the taxi, Han was arrested. He was searched, and
$3,600 in cash was found on him.


4 In the six statements recorded after his arrest, Han’s position was that
the $3,600 found on him at the time of his arrest was meant for gambling,
and that he had ordered ketamine and “Ice” (a street name for
methamphetamine), and not diamorphine, from Lao Ban. This was the crux of
Han’s defence at the trial. At the trial, Han also said that if someone had
arrived with the drugs that he had ordered, he would have used the money
intended for gambling to pay for the drugs.


5 The Judge convicted Han as she found that the Prosecution had proved
beyond a reasonable doubt that Han: (a) intended to possess a bundle of
drugs containing not less than 18.62g of diamorphine (Bundle “D1B”); (b)
intended to traffic in those drugs; and (c) had undertaken steps towards
the commission of the offence, such that it might be said that he had
“embarked on the crime proper”. As Han did not adduce any evidence to show
that he was a mere courier and was not issued a certificate of substantive
assistance by the Public Prosecutor, the alternative sentencing regime was
not available to him. The Judge thus imposed the mandatory death sentence
on him.


6 On appeal, Han submitted that the Judge did not accord sufficient weight
to his defence that there could have been a mix-up in the drug orders as he
had ordered ketamine and Ice, and not diamorphine, from Lao Ban. Han
highlighted that Lao Ban’s instructions to Khor were for him to be given
“one yellow bundle”, but the bundle in respect of which he was charged was
a black bundle. In addition, Han submitted that the acts undertaken by him
were insufficient to satisfy the threshold to establish the    actus reus of the offence charged, and that there was insufficient
evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he intended to traffic in
the diamorphine contained in D1B.


The Court of Appeal’s decision


7 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) held that to sustain Han’s conviction
on the charge, the Prosecution would have to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt that Han: (a) intended to possess the drugs in D1B, which contained
not less than 18.62g of diamorphine, and knew that D1B contained
diamorphine; and (b) intended to traffic in those drugs: at    [33].


8 The Court found that there was a reasonable doubt as to whether Han had
ordered diamorphine from Lao Ban. In the critical phone conversation
between Khor and Lao Ban shortly after 2.00am on 2 March 2016, Lao Ban
repeatedly referred to the bundle that he intended Han to receive as a “    yellow bundle” [emphasis added]. Yet, D1B, the bundle eventually
attributed to Han in the charge, was a black bundle. Further, at
the time of this phone conversation between Khor and Lao Ban, Khor was in a
car belonging to the CNB. It appeared from the evidence that the bundles of
drugs seized from Khor were within sight of the CNB officer in the car who
directed Khor and listened in on this phone conversation (“SSI Pang”). It
would thus have been obvious to SSI Pang that none of the drug bundles
corresponded to Lao Ban’s reference to yellow bundles. Yet, SSI Pang did
not instruct Khor to clarify with Lao Ban what he meant when he referred to
yellow bundles, but instead presumed that Lao Ban was referring to the big
black bundles. As such, the Prosecution’s case that Han had ordered
diamorphine from Lao Ban essentially rested on: (a) SSI Pang’s    interpretation of Lao Ban’s instructions, despite it being
apparent that there was a discrepancy between those instructions and the
physical reality presented by the bundles in question; and (b) SSI Pang’s
decision not to instruct Khor to resolve the discrepancy with Lao
Ban, but to proceed instead on the basis of presuming what Lao Ban
must have meant: at [35], [37]–    [38] and [43]–[48].


9 Further, the Prosecution’s case was that all the three bundles that Lao
Ban referred to as “yellow bundles” were identical and were referred to
interchangeably. The Court accepted that all these bundles contained
diamorphine, and two of them were meant for 99. The Court pointed out,
however, that there was no evidence that the two bundles meant for 99 were    intended to contain diamorphine, and the Prosecution did not call
99 to testify as such even though it was well within the Prosecution’s
control to lead such evidence. The Court indicated that had such evidence
been led, it might well have come to a different view as to whether there
was a reasonable doubt that Han had ordered diamorphine from Lao Ban: at    [49].


10 In addition, the Court found that Han had consistently stated that he
had not ordered diamorphine from Lao Ban, but had instead ordered ketamine
and Ice. Significantly, Han made this claim even before he was aware of the
record of the phone conversations between Khor and Lao Ban (in particular,
the critical phone conversation shortly after 2.00am on 2 March 2016),
which would have indicated the possibility of a mix-up in the drug orders,
and his defence was consistent with the objective evidence presented by
these phone conversations: at [50]–[54].


11 For the foregoing reasons, the Court found that the Prosecution had not
proved beyond a reasonable doubt that Han intended to possess the
diamorphine contained in D1B, and acquitted Han of the charge against him
as it currently stood: at [55].


12 The Court held that it remained necessary to consider whether the charge
should be amended to one that Han attempted to possess some other drugs for
the purpose of trafficking, given that the essence of his defence was that
he had ordered ketamine and Ice instead of diamorphine. To address this, it
was necessary to consider the circumstances under which criminal liability
could attach to attempts to commit offences that could not possibly have
been consummated in the circumstances (“impossible attempts”). This issue
arose because there was no possibility of Han consummating the primary
offence of possessing ketamine and Ice for the purpose of trafficking,
given that Khor never had any bundles containing the amount of ketamine and
Ice allegedly ordered by Han: at [56]–    [57].


13 After examining the text, the origins and the context of s 12 of the
MDA, the Court laid down a two-stage framework for dealing with cases
involving impossible attempts. At the first stage of this framework, the
court would examine whether there was a specific intention to commit a
criminal act. The focus of the inquiry here was on the act that the accused
person specifically intended to do and whether that intended act was
criminal, either on its face or because of some mistaken belief harboured
by the accused person. If the latter question were answered in the
affirmative, then at the second stage of the framework, the court would
examine whether there were sufficient acts by the accused person in
furtherance of the specific intention to commit the criminal act found at
the first stage. The inquiry here was directed at whether there were
sufficient acts to reasonably corroborate the presence of that intention
and demonstrate substantial movement towards its fulfilment. A conviction
could only be arrived at if the answer to this was “yes”: at    [108].


14 In the circumstances, the Court allowed Han’s appeal on the charge as it
currently stood and acquitted Han of that charge. The Court adjourned the
matter pending submissions from the Prosecution on whether the charge
should be amended to one of attempting to possess ketamine and Ice for the
purpose of trafficking. The Court indicated that if the Prosecution were to
so contend, it would have to hear Han on the proposed amended charge as
well as on whether he intended to contest it; and if he did not intend to
contest it, the Court would have to hear the parties on the question of
sentence. The Court gave directions for the parties to file their
respective submissions on these matters, and ordered that Han remain in
custody pending the next hearing before the Court: at    [118].


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


