
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
26 February 2020
Case summary
BP Singapore Pte Ltd v Jurong Aromatics Corp Pte Ltd (receivers and managers appointed) and others and another appeal 
[2020] SGCA 09 
Civil Appeals Nos 28 and 29 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith Prakash):
Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against the High Court’s decision to grant the declarations sought by Mr Cosimo Borelli and Mr Jason Kardachi (“the Receivers”)  that no set-off could arise between the claimed receivables and Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd’s (“JAC”) indebtedness. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

Insolvency set-off was not available as the floating charge that crystallised on the appointment of the Receivers had not decrystallised and the Final Payment Amount pursuant to cl 2.1 of the Transitional Supplemental Agreement had not been released from the charge.
The Set-Off Agreement Debt and the Final Payment Amount were not so closely connected with JAC’s indebtedness that it would be manifestly unjust not to allow an equitable set-off to apply.

Introduction
1 JAC and its trading partners, BP Singapore Pte Ltd (“BP”) and Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd (“Glencore”) had mutual claims and cross-claims. A secured creditor of the company appointed the Receivers to take charge of the JAC’s business, crystallising the floating charge over the company’s present and future book debts. JAC entered into new trading arrangements with the trade partners under the direction of the Receivers. The question that arose was whether BP and Glencore could set-off their post-receivership indebtedness to JAC against JAC’s pre-existing indebtedness to them. BP and Glencore appealed against the High Court’s decision to grant the declarations sought by the Receivers that no set-off could arise between the claimed receivables and JAC’s indebtedness.
Background facts
2 JAC was incorporated for the purposes of constructing, developing and operating a condensate splitter integrated with an aromatics plant on Jurong Island (“the Plant”). In April 2011, a syndicate of financiers (“the Senior Lenders”) provided loans to JAC totalling approximately US$1.6bn. By way of a debenture dated 30 April 2011 (“the Debenture”) entered into between JAC and BNP Paribas Singapore Branch (“the Agent”) for and on behalf of the Senior Lenders, the Senior Lenders obtained from JAC a comprehensive security package over all of JAC’s undertaking and assets to secure their loans. In particular, JAC granted a first fixed charge over all its assets listed in cl 3.1(c) of the Debenture, including all its present and future book debts and a first floating charge over its undertaking and all its present and future assets.
3 BP and Glencore were both suppliers and customers of JAC. In March 2011, they each entered into feedstock supply and product offtake agreements with JAC). The Glencore-JAC feedstock supply agreement and Glencore-JAC product offtake agreement expressly provide that parties are not entitled to exercise a right of set-off in respect of any sums due under those agreements. Parties subsequently varied these terms by way of a set-off agreement (“the Set-Off Agreement”), under which Glencore and JAC agreed to set-off mutual claims arising out of the Glencore-JAC feedstock supply agreement and Glencore-JAC product offtake agreement. The net effect of the Set-Off Agreement was the creation of a debt (“the Set-Off Agreement Debt”) payable by Glencore to JAC. No such debt was owed by BP.
4 JAC ran into financial difficulties sometime in 2014 and the operations of the Plant were shut down in December 2014.On 28 September 2015, the Receivers were appointed receivers and managers of JAC pursuant to the terms of the Debenture. Both BP and Glencore issued enforcement notices stating their intention to apply for the winding-up of JAC. As at November 2015, JAC was substantially indebted to both appellants. 
5 BP, Glencore and the Receivers came to an agreement (“the Tolling Agreement”) under which, for a fee, BP and Glencore would be able to use the Plant until its sale. A condition precedent to entering into the Tolling Agreement required that the Senior Lenders provide an irrevocable undertaking not to remove the Receivers from their position as JAC’s receivers until the tolling and transitional period thereafter was completed, and not to take any step that would have the effect of frustrating, preventing or interfering with the performance of the Receivers’ and/or JAC’s obligations under the Tolling Agreement. BP and Glencore thereafter utilised the Plant to process the feedstock they supplied into aromatics and petroleum products which they could sell. They paid a monthly tolling fee for the use of the Plant between August 2016 and August 2017. BP and Glencore did not, however, pay the tolling fee for the month of August 2017 amounting to some US$5.46m due from each of them (“the Tolling Fee Debt”).
6 On 28 August 2017, Glencore, with the support of BP, instituted winding-up proceedings against JAC. On 20 September 2017, BP and Glencore asserted that the Tolling Fee Debt was subject to insolvency set-off against the JAC indebtedness by way of letter to JAC. JAC was ordered to be wound up on 18 February 2019. 
7 BP, Glencore, JAC and ExxonMobil entered into a transitional agreement dated 16 June 2017 and a supplemental agreement in respect of the Transitional Agreement dated 16 June 2017 that facilitated the “hot transition” of the Plant. This allowed the Plant to be transferred to ExxonMobil while operations were ongoing rather than JAC having to shut down the Plant before effecting its transfer. To facilitate the hot transition, BP and Glencore agreed to pay JAC a sum of money (“Final Payment Amount”), which represented the value of certain feedstock (“the Initial Inventory”), that JAC had transferred to BP and Glencore at the start of the tolling process and which BP and Glencore were obliged to return to JAC at the end of tolling pursuant to the Tolling Agreement. The Final Payment Amount, a sum of US$16,205,334.86, was not paid when due and, as with the Tolling Fee Debt, BP and Glencore asserted on 20 September 2017 that the Final Payment Amount was subject to insolvency set-off against the JAC indebtedness. 

The court’s decision
8 The Court of Appeal held that the control over the business of JAC exercised by the Receivers after they were appointed by the Senior Lenders on 28 September 2015 constituted control exercised by the Senior Lenders. The claimed receivables became subject to the crystallised floating charge under the terms of the Debenture and were therefore subject to the equitable interest of the Senior Lenders. Consequently, the mutuality between the claimed receivables and the JAC indebtedness that was necessary for insolvency set-off to be applied did not exist: at [32]. Further, BP and Glencore had not shown that the crystallised floating charge had subsequently decrystallised: at [40].
9 The Court of Appeal rejected BP and Glencore’s submissions that the release of the Senior Lenders’ security over the Initial Inventory meant that the Final Payment Amount was likewise released from the security and was thus available for set-off against the JAC indebtedness: at [43]-[44]. There was no reason why the Final Payment Amount ought not to be paid to JAC. As an amount owing to JAC it was, on accrual, prima facie subject to the crystallised charge over JAC’s book debts. The fact that this debt replaced the BP and Glencore’s initial obligation to transfer the Initial Inventory to JAC could not change its nature as a book debt: at [44]-[45].
10 The Court of Appeal found little merit in BP and Glencore’s submissions that the Senior Lenders’ lack of control over the Set-Off Agreement Debt was evidenced in the fact that JAC and Glencore could enter into the Set-Off Agreement in the first place: at [46]-[47]. There was no reason why a floating charge cannot be said to have existed over the Set-Off Agreement Debt, which charge crystallised on the appointment of the Receivers. In the absence of anything on the facts pointing to the Senior Lenders’ relinquishing control over this debt, the Set-Off Agreement Debt remained charged in favour of the Senior Lenders, thus precluding Glencore from exercising any set-off against the JAC indebtedness: at [47].
11 The Court of Appeal did not accept BP and Glencore’s submissions that the claims and cross-claims in respect of the Final Payment Amount and the Set-Off Agreement Debt on the one hand, and those under the Trade Agreements on the other, were so closely connected that it would be manifestly unjust not to allow an equitable set-off: [51]. In relation to the Final Payment Amount, the Court of Appeal disagreed that this sum found its source in the Trade Agreements that gave rise to the JAC indebtedness: at [52]. Further, the provisions in the Glencore-JAC feedstock supply agreement and Glencore-JAC product offtake agreement sufficed to establish the parties’ agreement to contract out of the right to exercise equitable set-off in respect of sums arising under these agreements: at [53].
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
