
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
19 February 2020
 
Case summary
The Online Citizen Pte Ltd v Attorney-General [2020] SGHC 36
Originating Summons No 118 of 2020
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Justice Belinda Ang Saw Ean):
Outcome: High Court dismisses appeal by The Online Citizen Pte Ltd (“TOC”) to set aside a Correction Direction issued against TOC under the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (“POFMA”).
Background
1          The Online Citizen Pte Ltd (“TOC”) brought the appeal under s 17(1) of the POFMA to set aside a Correction Direction (“CD”) issued against it on the instruction of the Minister of Home Affairs (“the Minister”). The material communicated by TOC is a hearsay report based on a press release by Lawyers For Liberty (“LFL”). LFL’s press release discloses an unlawful hanging method allegedly carried out by officers from the Singapore Prison Service. The crux of the issue is whether the POFMA covers persons who communicate material containing false facts without verifying the truth of the content. An ancillary question also arises as to who bears the burden of proving the truth or falsity of a statement under the POFMA.
The material facts
2          On 16 January 2020, LFL published a press statement claiming that officers from the Singapore Prison Service in Changi prison used an unlawful hanging method to execute prisoners on death row. The press statement discloses the particulars of the purported hanging method. On the same day, TOC published an article quoting LFL’s press statement at length. That same day, TOC also sent an e-mail to the Ministry of Home Affairs seeking clarification on LFL’s press statement.
3          On 22 January 2020, TOC was issued a CD on the instruction of the Minister. The false statement of fact identified in the CD is an extract from LFL’s press statement detailing a step-by-step account of the unlawful hanging method. TOC made an application under s 19 of the POFMA to cancel the CD on the basis that its article takes no position regarding the truth of the allegations. On 24 January 2020, the Minister rejected TOC’s application. TOC then brought this appeal relying on the ground set out in s 17(5)(b) of the POFMA.
The decision
4          The Court only had to decide two issues concerning s 17(5)(b) of the POFMA. First, whether the statement identified in the CD is a statement of fact; and secondly, whether the statement identified in the CD is a true statement of fact.
5          On the first issue, the Court was unable to accept TOC’s argument that the statement is neither a fact nor an opinion but a hearsay report, for two reasons (at [46]). First, the Court held that the only two recognised categories of statements under s 17(5)(b) are facts or opinions. TOC was not entitled to create a third category of statements within s 17(5)(b) of the POFMA (at [47]). Secondly, TOC wrongly assumed that a statement could only be regarded as a fact after a fact-checking exercise. A fact-checking exercise is only relevant for determining whether a fact is true or false and not whether a statement is a fact or an opinion (at [48]). Applying the “reasonable person” test, the Court found that a reasonable person who reads the statement in the CD would regard the statement as being a fact (at [50]).
6          On the second issue, TOC’s argued that that the statement in the CD is true because TOC’s statement is that LFL made a press statement, which is true. The Court referred to this argument as the “reporting defence” (at [51]). Nevertheless, the Court rejected this argument for two reasons (at [53]). First, the relevant inquiry under s 17(5)(b) is whether the statement in the CD is true and not whether TOC’s article report that LFL made a press statement is true (at [54]). TOC had conceded at the start that the relevant statement in question was the statement identified in the CD. Secondly, s 11(4) of the POFMA precluded the possibility of the “reporting defence”. Section 11(4) of the POFMA establishes that a person who communicates a false statement of fact may be issued a CD even if the person does not know or has no reason to believe that the statement is false. It was therefore immaterial that TOC did not know whether the statement in the CD is true (at [55]). This is consistent with the POFMA’s purpose of preventing the dissemination of falsehoods (at [56]). Since TOC took no position regarding the truth of the statement in the CD, it had no legal basis to rely on s 17(5)(b) of the POFMA, and this was sufficient to dispose of the issue (at [57]). Even if TOC had sought to argue that the statement in the CD is true, it provided no evidence to this end and would have failed to discharge either its legal or evidential burden of proof (at [58]–[59]).
7          As an ancillary matter, the Court addressed the question of where the burden of proof lies in a s 17(1) appeal on grounds set out in s 17(5). Although both parties argued the issue at length, the Court stressed that the issue was a red-herring. Even if the onus in an appeal on s 17(5) grounds is on the respondent to prove the falsehood of a factual statement, the outcome in the present case would have been the same. This is because TOC did not argue that the statement in the CD is true in the sense of the expression intended by s 17(5)(b) of the POFMA. Nevertheless, the Court considered the issue and departed from the approach adopted in Singapore Democratic Party v Attorney-General [2020] SGHC 25 (“SDP”), which held that the burden to prove the grounds set out in s 17(5) of the POFMA falls on the respondent (at [16]).
8          The Court held that primacy should be accorded to the text of the statute in ascertaining where the legal burden of proof rests (at [24]). After examining the language of the legal elements in s 17(5), the Court concluded that the provision characterises the legal elements in terms of the positive case that a statement-maker has to meet. Therefore the legal burden of proof rests on the statement-maker (at [25]–[33]).
9          In addition, the Court disagreed with the reasoning in SDP that the issuance of a CD curtailed the Constitutional freedom of speech. This is because misinformation is not a category of speech covered by the Constitution and the CD does not actually prevent statement-makers from maintaining the original text of their publications (at [34]–[37]).
10        The Court also had difficulty with imposing the burden of proof on the Minister simply because of his decision to issue a CD under s 10(1) of the POFMA. This is because ss 10(1) and 17(5) of the POFMA are bifurcated and refer to distinct regimes (at [38]–[41]). 
11        Finally, the Court declined to imply legislative intent based on concerns that Parliament did not articulate, such as informational asymmetry. Even if information asymmetry was relevant, the shifting of the evidential burden of proof would mitigate this concern (at [42]–[43]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
