
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
10 February 2020
Case summary
Lee Pheng Lip Ian v Chen Fun Gee and others 
[2020] SGCA 06
Civil Appeal No 52 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Tay Yong Kwang):
Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against High Court Judge’s decision to dismiss an application for leave to commence judicial review proceedings.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

An application for leave in judicial review proceedings may be disposed of on its merits even at the leave stage. Where all relevant parties and information are before the court and parties are prepared to make full arguments, the distinction between the leave and merit stages becomes artificial: at [28].
The question of whether non-compliance with a statutory provision affects the validity of an act or decision depends on what Parliament intended for the consequences of non-compliance to be and this is an exercise in statutory interpretation: at [35] and [38].

Introduction
1       This was an appeal against a High Court Judge (“the Judge”)’s decision to dismiss an application for leave to commence judicial review proceedings. The genesis of the application surrounded 13 extensions of time (“EOT”) sought and granted during the course of a preliminary inquiry conducted under the disciplinary framework of the Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (“MRA”).
Background to the appeal
2     The appellant, Dr Lee Pheng Lip Ian, operated a private clinic by the name of Integrated Medical Clinic (“the Clinic”). The Clinic had offered some medical services allegedly in contravention of the relevant regulations. When the Clinic’s licence was due for renewal, the Ministry of Health (“MOH”) refused to renew the Clinic’s licence unless the relevant regulations were complied with. The MOH also referred the matter to the Singapore Medical Council (“SMC”).
3     The SMC lodged a complaint against the appellant in relation to his alleged offering of non-mainstream medical services and the prescription of bio-identical hormone replacement therapy and a wide range of plant products (“the Complaint”). A Complaints Committee (“CC”) was subsequently appointed to carry out a preliminary inquiry, which took almost four years. At the end of the inquiry, the CC concluded that a formal inquiry before a Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) should be held. During the preliminary inquiry, the CC sought 13 EOTs which were granted by the chairman of the Complaints Panel (“Chairman of CP”).
4       The appellant filed an application to seek leave to commence judicial review proceedings to quash: (a) all applications by the CC to the Chairman of CP for EOT; (b) all decisions of the Chairman of CP granting EOT; and (c) the CC’s decision for a formal inquiry to be held by a DT. The appellant also sought a prohibiting order to prohibit the SMC from referring the Complaint to the Chairman of CP.
5    The Judge declined to grant leave for judicial review. The Judge considered s 42(2) of the MRA to be a directory provision and that applications for and grants of EOT under s 42(2) cannot be challenged on the grounds of illegality and irrationality. Further, the Judge held that the appellant did not suffer substantial prejudice as the SMC and the CC were not responsible for MOH’s decision to refuse to renew the Clinic’s licence or the Minister of Health’s decision to allow the appellant’s appeal or any interval or delay in between.
6       In this appeal, the appellant submitted that the Judge should not have delved into the merits of the case and should have adopted a multi-faceted inquiry instead of a binary mandatory or directory classification. Further, Parliament’s intention was for judicial review to lie in circumstances where the CC’s proceedings had been unfair or unreasonable to the medical practitioner and that he suffered substantial prejudice as a result of the delay.
The court’s decision
7       The Court of Appeal emphasised that the requirement to obtain leave for judicial review is to filter out groundless or hopeless cases at an early stage to prevent waste of judicial time and to protect public bodies from harassment: at [34].
8        An application for leave in judicial review proceedings may be disposed of on its merits even at the leave stage. Where all relevant parties and information were before the court and parties were prepared to make full arguments, the distinction between the leave and merit stages became artificial. In this case, the parties filed affidavits and the arguments took place over two and a half days. If the Judge had granted leave for judicial review, it was difficult to see what new materials or arguments could have been presented at the merits stage: at [28].
9       The mandatory-directory distinction was merely a manifestation of the broader question of whether non-compliance affected the validity of an act or decision. The ultimate question was what Parliament intended the consequences of non-compliance to be, and this was an exercise in statutory interpretation: at [35] and [38].
10     The three-month period stipulated in s 42(1), when read alongside s 42(2) of the MRA, was not to be understood as a strict imperative for which non-compliance would result in invalid proceedings. Instead, the timelines were directory, expressing Parliament’s general expectation that complaints would be processed expeditiously. Further, the complexity of a matter and serious difficulties were matters of degree and of judgment, dependent very much on the particular facts and circumstances of each case. Consequently, applications for and the grant of EOT made after the expiry of the initial stipulated period or extended periods were permissible and did not invalidate the disciplinary proceedings. Non-compliance with s 42(2) did not furnish any ground for judicial review. On the facts here, there was no breach of s42(2). If the discretion was shown to have been exercised in bad faith or with malice, it may be invalidated but there was no bad faith proved on the facts of this case: at [42], [45], [47], [48], [52] and [67].
11    The Court of Appeal held that the financial prejudice faced by the appellant was partly due to his own doing. The appellant refused to temporarily cease the services which were the cause of MOH’s concern and could have adjusted his business to suit the requirements of the relevant regulations until such time when his challenged could be fully ventilated. The non-availability of the appellant’s patients as witnesses was not prejudicial to the conduct of his defence. The key witnesses were likely to be the appellant himself and his experts and the appellant’s clinical notes and his justifications would be sufficient in determining whether he was acting in his patients’ best interests: at [58], [59], [62], and [64].
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
