




SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


7 February 2020


Case summary


Anil Singh Gurm v J S Yeh & Co and another
[2020] SGCA 05



Civil Appeal No 164 of 2018 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith
Prakash):



Outcome: CoA allows appeal against decision denying leave for a
foreign witness to give evidence via video link.




Facts



1 In 2006, Mr Tejinder Singh Sekhon (“Mr Sekhon”), a foreign national,
unsuccessfully sought to purchase a local residential property in Singapore
(“the Property”), having been unable to obtain approval from the Land
Dealings Approval Unit to purchase the Property in his own name. In October
2006, Mr Sekhon asked his cousin, Mr Anil Singh Gurm (“the appellant”) if
he would purchase the Property as Mr Sekhon’s nominee. The appellant agreed
on condition that this arrangement would not expose him to any risk, legal
or otherwise.


2 Mr Sekhon sought the advice of Ms Yasmin binte Abdullah (“the second
respondent”) a solicitor employed by J S Yeh & Co (“the first
respondent”), a local law firm. According to the appellant, the second
respondent advised Mr Sekhon that it was acceptable for the appellant to
hold the Property on his behalf. She later confirmed this at a meeting with
the appellant and Mr Sekhon. The respondents disagree that such advice was
given.


3 In December 2006, the appellant acquired the Property in his own name. Mr
Sekhon relocated to Australia in May 2012 and the Property was sold shortly
after. In December 2012, the Commercial Affairs Department of the Singapore
Police Force commenced investigations into the purchase of the Property. In
January 2015, the appellant was charged with an offence under the
Residential Property Act (Cap 274, 2009 Rev Ed) for his role in the
purchase of the Property as the nominee/trustee of Mr Sekhon. He claimed
trial and successfully sought an adjournment of his criminal trial on the
basis that he had commenced a negligence claim (“Suit 580”) against the
respondents and it would be more expedient for this to be determined first.


4 On 4 April 2018, the appellant filed Summons No 1655 of 2018 (“SUM
1655”), to seek leave for Mr Sekhon to testify in Suit 580 via video link.
Mr Sekhon did not want to travel to Singapore to give evidence in person as
he wanted to avoid possible prosecution for his role in the acquisition of
the Property. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) dismissed SUM 1655. He
granted the appellant leave to appeal against his decision.





Background to the appeal


5 The Judge dismissed SUM 1655 for two reasons. First, Mr Sekhon was merely
unwilling, not “unable” (per s 62A(2)(a) of the Evidence Act (Cap
97, 1997 Rev Ed)), to testify in Singapore. The concept of inability under
s 62A(2)(a) only extended to situations where a witness was
incapable of attending local proceedings for reasons beyond their own
control or doing. A broader interpretation would dilute the general rule
that witnesses are to testify in person. This in itself provided sufficient
reason to dismiss SUM 1655. Second, granting Mr Sekhon leave would be
tantamount to a judicial endorsement of his attempt to avoid justice. In
the light of these findings, the Judge considered it unnecessary to decide
whether either party would be prejudiced if SUM 1655 was allowed or
dismissed.


The court’s grounds of decision


6 The Court of Appeal found that a textual analysis of ss 62A and 62A(2),
the latter providing specifically for evidence to be given by witnesses
abroad, reveals that their purpose is to provide the court with a broad
discretion to receive oral evidence by video link in civil proceedings (at    [34]–[35], [37]).
Section 62A(2)(a) is not meant to operate as a fetter on this
discretion and is not a requirement that must be satisfied in every case
(at [36]).


7 The Court agreed with the Judge that the plain and ordinary meaning of
“unable” in s 62A(2)(a) implied a lack of choice on the witness’s
part (at [30], [38]). Further, Mr Sekhon
was not unable to give evidence but was merely unwilling to do so (at    [39]). The Court disagreed, however, that Mr Sekhon’s
unwillingness to travel was by itself determinative of an application for
leave under s 62A (at [41]). On a holistic assessment of
the case, the Judge had failed to give appropriate weight to a number of
factors pointing in favour of leave:


(i) Mr Sekhon was not a party to Suit 580. The court should generally be
more willing to grant leave to a witness who is not party to the litigation
and has no control over it (at [53]), the reason being
that non-party witnesses have no control over the venue of proceedings (at    [49]). If the court was capable of assisting litigants by
compelling witnesses in Singapore to testify, there was no reason why it
should be less willing to assist litigants whose witnesses, through no
fault of the litigants, refused to come to Singapore (at    [52]).


(ii) Mr Sekhon did not stand to derive any tangible benefit from Suit 580,
whether directly or indirectly (at [56]).


(iii) The appellant could neither subpoena Mr Sekhon nor convince him to
travel to Singapore (at [59]). The fact that a party has
no control over a witness who refuses to travel to Singapore, should
generally weigh in favour of leave being granted (at [57]
).


(iv) Mr Sekhon was an important witness who could give direct evidence on
the substance of the second respondent’s legal advice to both himself and
the appellant (at [62]–[63]).


(v) While the appellant would have suffered prejudice if leave were
refused, the respondents would have suffered no prejudice if leave were
granted. Any additional expense that would be incurred by the respondents
by virtue of granting leave could be compensated for by an appropriate
costs order (at [70]). The Court was not persuaded that
the Judge’s assessment of Mr Sekhon’s credibility would be hindered if he
was not testifying in person (at [71]). In any case, any
prejudice to the respondents paled in comparison to the severe prejudice
that the appellant would suffer if he was denied the opportunity to adduce
the evidence of Mr Sekhon (at [72]).


(vi) In the interest of preserving and upholding its authority and dignity,
the court would be unlikely to exercise its discretion to allow video link
evidence from overseas witnesses who seek a collateral advantage or are
disrespectful of its authority. The integrity of the court’s processes must
be protected (at [74]). In the present case, there was no
evidence that the appellant or Mr Sekhon were pursuing a collateral purpose
through SUM 1655 or Suit 580 (at [75]).


8 The Court was satisfied that these factors displaced the weight of the
fact that Mr Sekhon was unwilling rather than unable to travel to
Singapore. Mr Sekhon should have been granted leave to testify via video
link (at [76]). The Court added that these factors were
not an exhaustive list of the considerations relevant to the exercise of
the court’s discretion under s 62A(2) (at [77]).


9 The Court disagreed that granting Mr Sekhon leave would be contrary to
public policy. There were two relevant policy considerations: (i) the
appellant’s right of access to justice, ie, his entitlement to put
forward his best possible case and relevant evidence in support thereof;
and (ii) the court should not facilitate a person’s attempt to evade
justice (at [83]–[84]). In the Court’s
view, Mr Sekhon was not attempting to evade justice. He left Singapore
months before the commencement of investigations into the purchase of the
Property and since then, had not been charged with any offence. Further,
given Singapore’s extradition arrangements with Australia, granting him
leave to testify via video link could not be seen as providing him with any
assistance to evade justice (at [86]).






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
