
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
22 January 2020
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v GCK and another matter [2020] SGCA 2
Criminal Reference No 6 of 2018 and Criminal Motion No 7 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: Court of Appeal reverses the respondent’s acquittal and restores his conviction on a charge of outrage of modesty, but substitutes the trial judge’s sentence with a sentence of 16 months’ imprisonment and three strokes of the cane.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:

The “unusually convincing” standard is the only applicable standard for both sexual and non-sexual offences where an eyewitness’s uncorroborated testimony forms the sole basis for a conviction. It is incorrect to apply different evidential standards to an eyewitness on the one hand, and an alleged victim on the other: at [87], [98], [99] and [104]).
The evidence of an eyewitness is neither less nor more reliable than that of an alleged victim. No general rule can be laid down about the relative evidential reliability of eyewitnesses compared to victims because this depends on all the circumstances of the case: at [108] and [114]. 
In assessing the evidence under the “unusually convincing” standard, the true question is how the standard is to be applied, and, more importantly, whether the court has correctly carried out its task of determining whether the Prosecution has discharged its burden of proving its case against the accused person beyond a reasonable doubt: at [125].

Background
1 The respondent (“the Respondent”), a male employee at a nursing home (“the Home”), was charged with one count of outrage of modesty under s 354(1) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the OM Charge”). The alleged victim (“the Victim”) was an elderly female resident of the Home who was suffering from serious physical and cognitive disabilities. Because she was found unfit to testify, the Prosecution’s case rested substantially on the testimony of an eyewitness, a female nurse at the Home (“Nurse MJ”). Nurse MJ alleged that she had seen the Respondent straddling the Victim with his trousers pulled down and the Victim’s diaper exposed, and with his groin placed on the Victim’s groin.
2 The Respondent denied the OM Charge. He claimed that he had been asked by one of the residents of the Home (“Mdm JP”) to enter her room (“the Room”), which she shared with the Victim, among other residents, to repair her portable television. While inside the Room, he saw the Victim’s head touching the side railing of her bed and noticed that her pillow was displaced. He thought the Victim was in pain as tears were flowing from her eyes. He therefore placed his knee between the bars of the side railing of the bed to reach for the Victim’s pillow, and then placed it under her head. The Respondent claimed that he did not touch the Victim while he was reaching for her pillow. He testified that after assisting the Victim, he went to the toilet to dispose of some food remains found on Mdm JP’s bed before returning to the Room. A friend of Mdm JP, Ms SBR, came by after he returned to the Room.
 
 
The decision at first instance
 
3 At first instance, the trial judge in the District Court (“the District Judge”) disbelieved the Respondent’s defence and convicted him of the OM Charge. The District Judge found Nurse MJ’s evidence “unusually convincing”, a term that indicates that a witness’s testimony is “so convincing that the Prosecution’s case [is] proven beyond reasonable doubt, solely on the basis of the evidence”. In contrast, the District Judge found the Respondent’s evidence internally inconsistent. Although the Respondent claimed at the trial that he had placed only one of his knees on the Victim’s bed while reaching for her pillow, in one of his statements to the police, he claimed that he had placed both his knees on the bed. During a visit to the scene in the course of the trial, the Respondent was requested to demonstrate how he had retrieved the Victim’s pillow. The District Judge found the Respondent’s posture “highly unnatural and contrived” because the Respondent could easily have reached for the pillow without placing either of his knees on the bed, considering his height. 
 4 The District Judge considered this case “one of the worst cases of its sort”. After taking into account the seven weeks the Respondent had spent in remand, the District Judge sentenced him to 22 months’ imprisonment (close to the maximum two-year imprisonment term) and three strokes of the cane. In this regard, the District Judge held that there was significant premeditation on the Respondent’s part. He had chosen to strike when several of the Room’s residents were away at an event, with the remaining residents being too disabled to raise any alarm. The District Judge also relied on the evidence of a psychiatrist who had interviewed the Victim after the incident (“Dr Ng”) to find that “very significant” psychiatric harm had been caused to the Victim.
 
 
The High Court’s decision
 
5 On appeal to the High Court, the High Court judge (“the Judge”) acquitted the Respondent of the OM Charge. In so doing, the Judge appeared to suggest the following:

The “unusually convincing” standard applied to an alleged victim’s testimony, but a different standard applied to an eyewitness’s testimony.
 

The “unusually convincing” standard applied to sexual offences, but a different standard applied to non-sexual offences. 
 

An eyewitness’s observations were of less evidential value than those of an alleged victim.

The Prosecution's criminal reference
6 The Prosecution filed Criminal Reference No 6 of 2018, submitting that the Judge’s decision had given rise to a question of law of public interest. Subsequently, after the Judge issued his written grounds of decision, the Prosecution applied by way of Criminal Motion No 7 of 2019 to reframe the question it had originally posed.
 
7 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) agreed to answer the question referred to it, but reformulated it as follows (at [66] and [85]):
 

What is the standard to be applied when evaluating the evidence of an eyewitness to a crime, where such evidence – (i) is uncorroborated; and (ii) forms the sole basis for a conviction (“the Applicable Standard Question”)?
 

Is the evidence of an eyewitness inherently less reliable than that of an alleged victim (“the Inherent Reliability Question”)?
 

How should the court assess the evidence when it applies the “unusually convincing” standard (“the Specific Test Question”)?

The Courts's answers to the questions
The Applicable Standard Question
8 The Court was of the view that the “unusually convincing” standard was the only applicable standard where an eyewitness’s uncorroborated testimony formed the sole basis for a conviction. It was incorrect to apply different evidential standards to an eyewitness on the one hand, and an alleged sexual offence victim on the other. That approach was based on antediluvian views of allegedly “suspect” witnesses such as sexual offence victims and children, and assumed that the evidence of these witnesses was inherently less reliable and therefore had to be treated with more suspicion. The “unusually convincing” standard applied across all types of offences, regardless of whether they were sexual in nature, so long as the evidence presented to the court was uncorroborated (at [87], [98], [99] and [104]).
The Inherent Reliability Question
9 The Court was of the view that the evidence of an eyewitness was neither less nor more reliable than that of an alleged victim. No general rule could be laid down about the relative evidential reliability of eyewitnesses compared to victims because this depended on all the circumstances of the case. The crucial question in each case was whether there was evidence specific to the particular eyewitness or alleged victim concerned which showed that the quality of his or her observations had been compromised or, conversely, improved (at [108], [109] and [114]).
The Specific Test Question
 
10 As for how the evidence should be assessed under the “unusually convincing” standard, the Court rejected the Prosecution’s submission that the guidelines for identification evidence established in Heng Aik Ren Thomas v Public Prosecutor [1998] 3 SLR(R) 142 (“Thomas Heng”) should apply. The Thomas Heng test was not a prescriptive formula that a judge must invariably recite in deciding whether to convict or acquit, but rather, a set of possible pointers. The true question was how the “unusually convincing” standard was to be applied, and, more importantly, whether the court had correctly carried out its task of determining whether the Prosecution had discharged its burden of proving its case against the accused person beyond a reasonable doubt (at [118], [123] and [125]).
 11 The principle of proof beyond a reasonable doubt entailed that upon considering all the evidence presented by the parties, the evidence sufficed to establish beyond a reasonable doubt each and every element of the charge against the accused person. A doubt was not reasonable if it was not reasoned, in the sense of being supported by reasons that were logically connected to the evidence (at [129], [131], [149(b)] and [149(c)]).
 
 
 12 The principle of proof beyond a reasonable doubt could be conceptualised in two ways:
 

First, a reasonable doubt could arise from “within the case mounted by the Prosecution”, that is, considering all the evidence adduced by the Prosecution at each stage of the proceedings. The court must particularise the specific weakness in the Prosecution’s own evidence that irrevocably lowered it below the threshold of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Once the court had identified the flaw internal to the Prosecution’s case, weaknesses in the Defence’s case could not ordinarily shore up what was lacking in the Prosecution’s case to begin with because the Prosecution had simply not been able to discharge its overall legal burden (at [134], [137], [142], [149(e)] and [149(f)]). 
 

Second, a reasonable doubt could arise “on the totality of the evidence”, which included the Defence’s case and any weaknesses therein. The assessment of the totality of the evidence was intimately connected with the “unusually convincing” standard, which arose in situations involving one person’s word against another’s. In order to find a reasonable doubt in the Prosecution’s case on the totality of the evidence, the court had to articulate the specific doubt that had arisen in the Prosecution’s case and ground it with reference to the evidence (at [143], [144], [147], [149(g)], [149(h)] and [149(j)]).
 


The Court's analysis of the facts
13 The Court held that no reasonable doubt had arisen within the Prosecution’s case, and that the Judge had erred in failing to identify and particularise the flaw within the Prosecution’s case that led him to believe that a reasonable doubt had arisen. The Judge had incorrectly found Nurse MJ’s evidence to be less reliable than the Victim’s evidence. Any weaknesses in a witness’s observations had to be specific to that witness, and there was no suggestion in this case that Nurse MJ’s line of sight had been obscured, or that she had been too far away. On the contrary, she had been standing one-and-a-half arm’s lengths away from the Victim’s bed, and the curtains had been drawn open across the width of the bed. There was also no reason to doubt that Nurse MJ was honest, and nothing inconsistent or implausible about her testimony (at [152]–[159]).
 
 
14 The Court also held that no reasonable doubt had arisen on the totality of the evidence. The Respondent had claimed that Nurse MJ was “mistaken” about what she allegedly saw him do to the Victim. But Nurse MJ’s account of the Respondent straddling the Victim on top of her bed was so drastically different from the Respondent’s account of his standing by her bed and assisting her with her pillow that it could not be explained as a mistake. Further, there was a glaring inconsistency in the Respondent’s defence as to the sequence of events. He claimed that after he helped the Victim with her pillow, he went to the toilet to dispose of some food remains found on Mdm JP’s bed before returning to the Room. Ms SBR then came by. The close-circuit television footage showed that those two events occurred at least five minutes before Nurse MJ entered the Room. This meant that on the Respondent’s own account, he would already have reached for the Victim’s pillow and assisted her at least five minutes before Nurse MJ came by, and he therefore could not have been doing the same thing when Nurse MJ saw him. Finally, the Judge had also failed to ground the Respondent’s allegation as to Nurse MJ’s misperception of his posture in the evidence. The Respondent could have easily reached for the Victim’s pillow without placing either of his knees on the Victim’s bed, given his height, and he could not explain the inconsistencies in his statements to the police as to whether he had placed one or both of his knees on the Victim’s bed while he was reaching for the pillow (at [160]–[166] and [168]–[171]). 
15 The Court thus reversed the Judge’s order of acquittal and affirmed the District Judge’s conviction of the Respondent on the OM Charge (at [177]).
The Court’s decision on sentence
16 The Court accepted the District Judge’s assessment that there were multiple offence-specific and offender-specific aggravating factors. However, the Court agreed with the Judge that it was inappropriate for the District Judge to have referred to Dr Ng’s evidence when sentencing the Respondent, given that Dr Ng’s evidence had been admitted at the trial only for the purposes of assessing the Victim’s fitness to testify, and not for the purposes of assessing the weight to be given to her account of the incident, whether for the purposes of conviction or sentence (at [191], [192] and [194]).
17 The Court was not fully persuaded that there was premeditation by the Respondent. There was, at most, a significant degree of opportunism, in that he had initially entered the Room to repair Mdm JP’s portable television, but had then taken advantage of the fact that most of the Room’s residents were away at an event and the remaining residents were too cognitively impaired to raise the alarm (at [196] and [200]).
18 The Court explained that the statutory maximum sentence for an offence (in this case, two years’ imprisonment) was reserved for the worst type of cases of the offence. Since the Prosecution could not establish that there was premeditation by the Respondent or that the Victim had suffered severe psychiatric harm, the present case did not fall within that category. After factoring in the relevant offence-specific and offender-specific aggravating factors as well as the seven weeks the Respondent had spent in remand, the Court held that the appropriate sentence was 16 months’ imprisonment and three strokes of the cane (at [201]–[204]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
