

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


20 December 2019


Case summary


Originating Summons No 4 of 2019


Law Society of Singapore v Dhanwant Singh 
[2019] SGHC 290


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Judge of Appeal
Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):



Outcome: Court of Three Judges affirms finding that lawyer breached
conveyancing and solicitors’ accounts rules and imposes a fine of $50,000.
The court stresses importance of interpreting lawyers’ ethical rules
purposively and normatively, and outlines principles on statutory
interpretation of lawyers’ professional rules, and imposition of
disciplinary sanctions.


Facts


1 The respondent, Mr Dhanwant Singh (“the Respondent”) started practice in
1986 and is a partner at S K Kumar Law Practice (“the Respondent’s firm”).


2 At the material time, the Respondent was representing the sellers of a
property (“the Vendors”). Mr Lim Ser Kuo David (“Mr Lim”), the sole
director and shareholder of RDW International Pte Ltd (“the Complainant”)
was interested in purchasing a property for S$5.8m (“the Property”).


3 The Complainant transferred $100,000 to the Respondent’s firm. Instead of
placing the $100,000 into his firm’s conveyancing account where the
withdrawal of the monies would require two-party authorisation, the
Respondent placed it into the client account and then disbursed the
$100,000 to his clients, the Vendors. It turned out that the Vendors had
ongoing bankruptcy applications made against them, which the Complainant
was never informed about. Upon discovering this, the Complainant tried to
have the $100,000 placed into the conveyancing account, or to have the
money returned. However, the Respondent refused, claiming there was an
agreement to release the $100,000 to the Vendors directly.


4 The purchase did not go through and the Vendors kept the $100,000 (they
have since been adjudged bankrupts). Neither the Respondent nor the Vendors
has made any restitution to the Complainant.


The Disciplinary Tribunal proceedings


5 The Law Society of Singapore (“the Law Society”) alleged that the
Respondent had breached the Rules 4(1) and 5(1) of the Conveyancing and Law
of Property (Conveyancing) Rules 2011 (S 391/2011) (“the Conveyancing
Rules”), which mandated that “conveyancing money” must be kept in a
conveyancing account and not a client account. This was also a breach of
the Legal Profession (Solicitors’ Account) Rules (1999 Rev Ed) (“the
LP(SA)R”). The Respondent was charged with improper practice under s 83(2)(    b) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed)
(“the Act”), and in the alternative for misconduct unbefitting of an
advocate and solicitor under s 83(2)(h) of the Act.


6 The Respondent raised three defences that could essentially be described
as follows:




    There was an alleged agreement between the Complainant and the
    Vendors to disburse the $100,000 to the Vendors directly instead of
    holding it in the Respondent’s firm’s conveyancing account (“the
    Disbursement Agreement”);
    



    There was an alleged agreement between the Complainant and the
    Vendors for the $100,000 to constitute consideration for the
    extension of the Option’s expiry date (“the Consideration
    Agreement”); and
    



    The $100,000 would only go toward the purchase price after the
    Option was exercised. Since the Complainant ultimately did not
    exercise the Option, the $100,000 would not amount to “conveyancing
    money” under Rule 2(2)(a) of the Conveyancing Rules.
       


7     The Respondent had initially accepted before the Disciplinary    Tribunal (“the Tribunal”) that there was no need for factual    evidence to be called with regard to the alleged agreements, and    that the sole issue was the legal one of whether the $100,000 was     “conveyancing money” within the meaning of Rule 2(2) of the    Conveyancing Rules. However, in his written submissions, the    Respondent subsequently renewed his claims and sought to rely on    the existence of the alleged Disbursement and Consideration    Agreements.   
8     The Tribunal rejected all three of the Respondent’s defences. The    Tribunal considered that Mr Lim had denied making the Disbursement    Agreement. The Tribunal rejected the Respondent’s claims with    regard to the Consideration Agreement. Even if the alleged    agreements were true, the Tribunal was of the view that the mere    fact that the $100,000 had been deposited into the Respondent’s    firm’s client account instead of the conveyancing account was a    breach of the Conveyancing Rules and the LP(SA)R. Accordingly, the    Tribunal found that there was cause of sufficient gravity for the    Respondent to be sanctioned.
Decision of the Court of Three Judges on the Respondent’s liability



9 The Court of Three Judges rejected the Respondent’s claim that the
Tribunal had deprived him of a fair hearing in declining to hear factual
evidence of the Disbursement and Consideration Agreements. Leaving aside
the fact that the Respondent had accepted that there was no need for
factual evidence to be called, it was plain that the Tribunal’s finding did
not depend on the existence or absence of the alleged agreements at all, as
it had found the Respondent liable even if his account of the agreements
were accepted (at [56]–[58]).


10 That said, the Court was prepared to give the Respondent the benefit of
the doubt that the agreements existed. Even then, the issue would boil down
to the legal question of whether the $100,000 fell under the definition of
“conveyancing money” under Conveyancing Rules. In this regard, the Court
was of the view that once monies pertaining to the sale and purchase of
land reach the hands of a solicitor, a statutory obligation on the
solicitor to safe keep the monies in a conveyancing account immediately
came into effect (at [60], [62]–    [64] and [66]).


11 The first step in interpreting legislative provisions of ethical rules
was to consider possible interpretations having regard to the whole text.
The Court rejected the Respondent’s interpretation that the Conveyancing
Rules would only govern sale and purchase agreements. The plain text of
Rule 2(2)(a) stated that conveyancing money was “any money
payable, in the sale and purchase of any land, to account of the purchase
price” and not just in the presence of a sale and purchase agreement. It
was amply clear that the $100,000 would account toward the purchase price
of the Property and was necessarily “conveyancing money” for the purposes
of Rule 2(2)(a) (at [76],[77(a)], [78]–[79] and    [85]).


12 It was axiomatic that under the second step, ethical rules must be read
in light of their objects and purposes. The overriding purpose of the
LP(SA)R was to oblige solicitors acting in conveyancing transactions to
keep safe monies by adhering to the Conveyancing Rules. In turn, the
legislative raison d’être of the Conveyancing Rules was to protect
the public through the additional safeguard of conveyancing accounts, which
require two-party authorisation. This was also apparent from the fact that
failure to do so was an offence under Rule 4(3) attracting punishments as
severe as imprisonment (at [77(b)] and    [86]–[89]).


13 The third step was to compare the possible interpretations against the
purposes of the statute. If there was only one possible interpretation, the
extraneous material may serve to confirm it. The Parliamentary statements
confirmed that “conveyancing money” included monies payable prior to the
execution of a sale and purchase agreement (at [77(c)],
and [90]–[93]).


14 The Court rejected the Respondent’s assertion that the Complainant was
not his client, but was purportedly represented by another firm, Matthew
Chiong Partnership (“MCP”). The Rules were to protect the public and not
just a solicitor’s client. Any failures by MCP in its legal professional
duties would not absolve the Respondent of his breaches. The Court also
rejected the argument that this would prevent option fees from being
forfeited when options to purchase were not exercised. On the contrary, the
Respondent’s interpretation would cast conveyancing practitioners adrift in
a sea of uncertainty as to their ethical obligations – they would not know
whether to place the money in a conveyancing or client account, or to
disburse the sum to their clients since a purchaser may yet exercise the
option (at [95]–[100]).


15 The Court also rejected the Respondent’s argument that he had a    bona fide belief the $100,000 was not conveyancing money. This was
not a defence to a strict liability provision. In any event, when he
breached his obligations, the Respondent could not logically have known the
Complainant would not exercise the option to purchase. In fact, it seemed
that when he breached his obligations, he did so either in blatant
disregard or blatant ignorance of his obligations (at    [100]–[109]).


16 The Court was amply satisfied the Respondent had breached the relevant
Rules. There was cause of sufficient gravity for sanctions as the breach
was neither technical (as it was not momentary), nor trivial (given the
significant sum involved). Ethical rules must be interpreted purposively
and normatively. The Respondent’s technical manoeuvres to wriggle out of
liability was not only ironically technically flawed, but also an arid and
artificial interpretation that would undermine the raison d’être
of the Rules (at [1], [5], and    [109]–[112]).



Decision of the Court of Three Judges on the sanction to be imposed



17 There were several aspects of the case that suggested the Respondent’s
culpability was higher than otherwise assumed. However, the Tribunal and
parties opted not to call further evidence. In the present case, as the
Court was prepared to assume the existence of the alleged Disbursement and
Consideration Agreements, and to resolve any factual incongruities in the
Respondent’s favour for the purposes of liability and sanctions, the
Respondent could not be said to have been prejudiced in any way. In this
regard, the Court provided guidance to future disciplinary tribunals and
counsel acting for the Law Society that disciplinary proceedings against a
solicitor were akin to criminal proceedings, and a criminal standard of
proof consisting of findings beyond a reasonable doubt must be adhered to.
Given this standard of proof there must also be a secure sub-stratum of
fact upon which sanctions must be grounded. (at [113]–    [117]).


18 The Respondent continued to vigorously challenge his liability in the
disciplinary proceedings, even though his defence could not reasonably have
been pressed. Unlike other solicitors who had pleaded guilty and evidenced
remorse, there was no mitigating weight to be placed on his actions (at    [121]–[123]).


19 The Respondent had caused the Complainant to lose a potential method of
recovery, which was the precise adverse consequences the Rules were
designed to prevent via the conveyancing account. His failure to make good
his breach by restoring the monies into the conveyancing account meant the
absence of another mitigating factor (at [124]–    [126]).


20 The Respondent’s previous antecedent for abetting clients to produce
false medical certificates to a court to delay criminal proceedings was
very dated, and therefore not relevant. The ongoing complaints against the
Respondent were also irrelevant, as they were pending (at    [118(c)] and [127]–[130]
).


21 The fact that the Respondent was a senior lawyer having started practice
in 1986 was an aggravating factor. The greater the seniority a member of
the Bar possessed, the greater the expectation that their experience and
accumulated wisdom would weigh in favour of adherence to professional and
ethical standards. Hence, a breach by a senior member caused greater damage
to the integrity and public perception of the profession (at    [131]).


22 In the context of disciplinary proceedings, an approach to precedents
should not be overly arithmetical and too divorced from the specific facts
of the case. Given the lack of particular mitigating factors, and the
aggravating factors of potential loss caused, and the fact he was a senior
member of the Bar, a heavy fine of $50,000 was appropriate (at    [137]–[138]).


23 The Court stressed that there was a particular purpose to the relevant
Rules, which was the protection of the public. The fact that monies were
entrusted to lawyers was a great privilege enjoyed by the legal profession,
and with that privilege came corresponding responsibilities (at    [139]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


