

 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


20 December 2019


Case summary



Singapore Shooting Association and others v Singapore Rifle Association

[2019] SGCA 83 


Civil Appeal No 103 of 2018


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):



Outcome: Court of Appeal allows the appeal in part, and rules that
the respondent’s claim in unlawful means conspiracy fails for lack of
actionable loss or damage, and its application for declaratory relief fails
in the absence of a real controversy.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:




    The legal fees incurred in investigating, detecting, unravelling
    and/or mitigating a conspiracy cannot constitute actionable loss or
    damage in the tort of unlawful means conspiracy if they are in
    substance the sort of expenses that would be incurred in
    preparation for litigation, and so would be recoverable as costs in
    any action that may be brought. However, such legal fees            may constitute actionable loss or damage if, for
    some reason, they cannot be recovered as costs instead: at            [92]–[98].
    



    The failure to obtain the Commissioner of Charities’ authorisation
    under s 31(2) of the Charities Act (Cap 37, 2007 Rev Ed) to pursue
    a particular head of claim or relief bars a claimant from
    presenting that head of claim or relief as part of charity
    proceedings in the High Court, unless it clearly falls within the
    scope of authorisation that has already been given: at            [161]–[162].
    



    Lawyers have a professional obligation to ensure that a proper
    risk-benefit evaluation is undertaken at each stage of legal
    proceedings. Even if a lawyer’s client is prepared to take a matter
    to court and bear the expense of litigation, the lawyer, as an
    officer of the court, nevertheless owes a higher duty to the court
    to assess whether it is in the interests of the administration of
    justice to pursue the matter: at [175] and            [178].
    



Background to the appeal




    The first appellant, the Singapore Shooting Association (“SSA”), is
    the national sports association for the sport of shooting and a
    registered charity under the Charities Act (Cap 37, 2007 Rev Ed)
    (“the Charities Act”). The second to fourth appellants (“the
    Individual Defendants”) were SSA Council members at the material
    time. The respondent, the Singapore Rifle Association (“SRA”), is
    one of the founder members and constituent clubs of SSA.
    



    The dispute arose out of a resolution passed by the SSA Council
    purporting to suspend SRA’s privileges at the National Shooting
    Centre (“the NSC”), which SSA had sub-leased from Sport Singapore
    (“Sport SG”) and operated for a period of time. SRA brought an
    action (“the present suit”) in the High Court for declarations that
    (among other things) the resolution was ultra vires and
    the SSA Council had no power to pass such a resolution by circular
    instead of at a meeting. SRA also pursued a claim in the tort of
    unlawful means conspiracy against the Individual Defendants for
    conspiring to cause it damage by procuring the passage of that
    resolution. On its part, SSA counterclaimed against SRA for the
    cost of demolishing a shooting range (“the Proprietary Range”)
    which it alleged had been built illegally by SRA at the NSC.
    



    Under a “Proprietary Range Agreement” (“the Agreement”) entered
    into between SSA and SRA in November 2014, it was agreed that SRA
    could construct the Proprietary Range within a specified area of
    the NSC at its own expense for its exclusive use. Unknown to SRA,
    however, the appellants, in particular, the second appellant (“Mr
    Vaz”), who was SSA’s president, started complaining to the Building
    and Construction Authority (“BCA”) about the construction works in
    September 2015. BCA investigated the complaints and found that the
    Proprietary Range had been erected without the requisite regulatory
    approval. BCA thus sent Sport SG, as the lessee of the NSC, a
    demolition order on 6 November 2015, ordering the complete
    demolition of the Proprietary Range by 7 December 2015 (the
    “Demolition Order”). However, along with the Demolition Order, BCA
    also sent Sport SG a separate letter informing Sport SG how the
    Proprietary Range could be regularised if Sport SG wished to retain
    it. Sport SG forwarded those documents to SSA on 11 November 2015,
    and left it to SSA to decide whether to demolish or to retain the
    Proprietary Range.
    



    The SSA Executive Committee, a smaller body within the SSA Council,
    resolved to demolish the Proprietary Range and conveyed that
    decision to SRA on 12 November 2015. SRA was not told about the
    option of regularising the Proprietary Range, and found out about
    that option only later, when it reached out to BCA as part of its
    efforts to resist the demolition of the Proprietary Range.
    



    Vexed by SRA’s actions in resisting the Demolition Order, Mr Vaz
    drafted a circular resolution (the “Circular Resolution”) that
    would have the effect of suspending SRA’s privileges at the NSC.
    The resolution was circulated among the SSA Council on 16 December
    2015, and a majority consisting of the Individual Defendants voted
    in favour of it, with the result that it was passed.
    



    In the meantime, SSA had engaged its own contractor to demolish the
    Proprietary Range. The demolition was completed by 22 January 2016.
    



    On 6 February 2016, Sport SG terminated SSA’s sub-lease of the NSC
    with immediate effect after the police seized from the NSC’s
    armouries firearms which were found to have no proper records.
    Sport SG resumed control of the NSC, although it appointed SSA as
    its interim managing agent for the NSC subject to various
    conditions.
       


On 6 May 2016, SRA commenced the present suit against the
    appellants.
    



The decision below
9.     The High Court judge (“the Judge”) allowed SRA’s application for
declaratory     relief and held that the Circular Resolution was            ultra vires for three reasons. First,      the SSA Council had
no power to suspend the privileges of a member of SSA.      Second,
SSA’s constitution did not empower the SSA Council to make
decisions      by circular resolution. Third, the Circular Resolution
was passed without SRA      having been given a reasonable opportunity
to be heard, and was therefore void for      being in breach of natural
justice.
    
10.     The Judge also held that the Individual Defendants were liable in
the tort of unlawful means conspiracy. The unlawful means was the
SSA Council’s passing of the ultra vires Circular
Resolution, which the Individual Defendants had collaborated
together to procure with the intention of causing SRA damage, and
SRA’s damage took the form of the legal fees and disbursements
incurred in investigating, detecting and responding to the
conspiracy.
   
11.     The Judge rejected SSA’s counterclaim for an indemnity for the cost
of demolishing the Proprietary Range. He held that SSA’s loss in
this regard was sustained as a result of its own breach of an
implied term in the Agreement that it would use reasonable efforts
to assist SRA in obtaining planning and building approval from BCA
for the construction of the Proprietary Range.
    

The Court of Appeal’s decision




SRA’s conspiracy claim against the Individual Defendants

12.     The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) held that the Individual
Defendants were not liable in the tort of unlawful means
conspiracy. In arriving at this conclusion, the Court applied the
rule that the legal fees incurred in investigating, detecting,
unravelling and/or mitigating a conspiracy could not constitute
actionable loss or damage for the purposes of this tort if they
were in substance the sort of expenses that would be incurred in
preparation for litigation, and so would be recoverable as costs in
any action that might be brought: at [92].
    
13.     There were three reasons for this rule. First, if legal fees that
could be recovered as costs were held to be sufficient to
constitute actionable loss or damage in the tort of conspiracy, the
element of damage would be satisfied in virtually every case where
the litigant pleading conspiracy engaged a lawyer. This would too
readily dilute the requirement that the claimant in an action in
conspiracy must prove that he had suffered loss or damage as a
result of the conspiracy. Second, allowing solicitors’ fees that
were recoverable as costs to be recovered as damages instead would
subvert the costs regime put in place to regulate the
recoverability of such fees. Third, there was no authority to
support SRA’s contention that the legal fees incurred for the
purposes of investigating a conspiracy could constitute actionable
loss or damage in the tort of conspiracy: at            [93]–[96].
    
14.     That said, such legal fees might constitute actionable
loss or damage if, for some reason they could not be
recovered as costs instead. A party who wished to make such an
argument would have to offer cogent proof that its lawyers truly
performed a discrete investigative function, instead of merely
gathering such evidence, facts and information as would typically
precede the giving of legal advice or the commencement of
litigation. It would also be necessary to demonstrate with
sufficient particularity that the time spent on investigating
and/or mitigating the conspiracy, and, hence, the expenditure
incurred, was directly attributable to the conspiracy: at            [97]–[98].
    
15.     In the present case, there was no evidence that the legal fees
which SRA had paid its lawyers were for investigative work in
respect of the conspiracy alleged by SRA, rather than for advisory
work of the type that solicitors would typically do in preparing
for litigation. SRA also could not rely on the expenses incurred by
its council members in relation to the investigation of the
conspiracy as constituting the relevant actionable loss or damage
because: (a) the council members did not appear to have pursued any
investigations on their own; and (b) SRA was not obliged to pay its
council members, given that they were volunteers. SRA’s claim in
unlawful means conspiracy thus failed because the element of
actionable loss or damage was not made out: at            [103]–[113]. 
SRA’s application for declaratory relief
16.     The Court held that SRA’s application for declaratory relief in
respect of the Circular Resolution failed because there was no real
controversy underlying the declaratory relief sought by SRA at the
time it brought its application. The entire purpose of the Circular
Resolution was to suspend SRA’s privileges at the NSC, as the
relevant part of the Circular Resolution made clear. But SSA lost
the power to manage and operate the NSC when its sub-lease with
Sport SG was terminated on 6 February 2016, well before the present
suit commenced on 6 May 2016. Although Sport SG gave SSA certain
residual powers to manage the NSC after terminating the sub-lease,
those powers were severely restricted by Sport SG’s own conditions.
This meant that SSA was unable to confer on or grant SRA any
privileges at the NSC, which correspondingly entailed that it also
could not suspend any such privileges. Thus, the real controversy
underlying the declaratory relief sought by SRA had been
extinguished by the time the present suit commenced, and
declaratory relief should not have been granted: at            [122]–[131].
    
SSA’s counterclaim for an indemnity 
17.     The Court held that SSA was not entitled to an indemnity from SRA
for the cost of demolishing the Proprietary Range. On a natural
reading of cl 10 of the Agreement, which required SRA to indemnify
and keep indemnified SSA from liabilities which SSA might suffer or
incur “for any death, injury, loss and/or damage caused directly or
indirectly by its activities, including
the activities of its members, employees,
independent contractors, agents, invitees or other permitted
occupier at the [NSC]” [emphasis added], the word “its” therein
could only refer to SRA, with the result that SRA would indemnify
SSA in respect of all liability and loss that SSA might suffer or
incur as a result of SRA’s activities, as only seemed
commercially sensible. In contrast, an absurd result would ensue if
the word “its” was interpreted as referring to SSA instead. In that
event, SRA would be required to indemnify SSA for liabilities that
SSA had suffered or incurred as a result of SSA’s            own activities. No evidence was put forward to suggest
that the parties had intended such a result: at            [136]–[137].
   
18.     SSA’s demolition of the Proprietary Range fell outside the
indemnity in cl 10 as the cost of the demolition did not represent
loss incurred by SSA that was caused by SRA’s activities.
SSA acted unilaterally in hiring its own contractor to demolish the
Proprietary Range even though SRA had asked SSA to desist from
doing so. Further, to give SSA the benefit of the indemnity in cl
10 would be to allow it essentially to benefit from its own wrong.
SSA knew of the option of regularising the Proprietary Range when
it was notified of BCA’s Demolition Order, but wilfully concealed
that option from SRA; and after SRA fortuitously came to know of
that option by its own efforts, SSA refused to meet SRA to discuss
regularising the Proprietary Range: at [138]–[139]
.
    

Section 31 of the Charities Act 
19.     An additional issue relating to s 31 of the Charities Act arose in
the course of oral argument before the Court. The Court expressed
its concern that, although the conspiracy claim formed the heart of
the dispute between the parties, the loss that SRA had allegedly
suffered as a result of the conspiracy was, on its best case, a sum
of only $63,200, which was well below the monetary threshold for
claims to be commenced in the High Court. In response, SRA’s
counsel submitted that the dispute had to be litigated in
the High Court pursuant to s 31 of the Charities Act because it
concerned declaratory relief being sought against a charity for
breaches of the charity’s constitution. SRA had also obtained the
requisite approval of the Commissioner of Charities (“the
Commissioner”) under s 31(2) of the Charities Act to commence the
litigation in the High Court: at [140]–[141].
   
20.     The Court accepted that SRA had standing to bring the present suit
as a “person interested in the charity” under s 31(1) of the
Charities Act. This was because SRA had a materially greater
interest than ordinary members of the public in securing the due
administration of SSA, given that: (a) it was a founder member and
constituent club of SSA; and (b) it was seeking declaratory relief
in respect of a resolution which it perceived not only to have been
passed ultra vires SSA’s constitution, but moreover, to
have had the effect of depriving it of certain privileges to which
it considered itself entitled: at [155]–[156].
    
21.     The Court found, however, that SRA had failed to obtain the
Commissioner’s authorisation to bring the conspiracy claim against
the Individual Defendants. The failure to obtain the Commissioner’s
authorisation to pursue a particular head of claim or relief barred
a claimant from presenting that head of claim or relief as part of
charity proceedings in the High Court. In the present case, the
authorisation granted by the Commissioner had been restricted only
to those claims by SRA that formed the subject of its application
for declaratory relief; no authorisation had been sought by or
granted to SRA for the conspiracy claim: at            [161]–[165].
   
22.     SSA, too, had failed to obtain the Commissioner’s authorisation for
its counterclaim for an indemnity for the cost of demolishing the
Proprietary Range. The value of the counterclaim was also far below
the monetary threshold for proceedings to be brought in the High
Court. Thus, the counterclaim, too, could not have supported the
litigation in the High Court: at [169].
   
23.     The Court further observed that in any event, both SRA’s conspiracy
claim and SSA’s counterclaim for an indemnity did not fall within
the ambit of “charity proceedings” as defined in s 31(8) of the
Charities Act, which proceedings had to be brought in the High
Court. The Court considered that “charity proceedings” typically
concerned the administration of a charity, as opposed to the
enforcement of common law rights or equitable rights not relating
to the administration of a charity. SSA’s counterclaim for an
indemnity was plainly concerned with the enforcement of its common
law rights, and SRA’s conspiracy claim similarly did not concern
the administration of SSA as a charity as it was directed against
the Individual Defendants only: at [171]–[173].
    
Costs
24.     In dealing with the costs of the proceedings, the Court took into
account not only the outcome reached on the substantive issues, but
also the disproportionate manner in which it considered this
litigation was run by SRA: at [174].
   
25.     The Court emphasised that lawyers had a professional obligation to
ensure that a proper risk-benefit evaluation was undertaken at each
stage of legal proceedings. Even if a lawyer’s client were prepared
to take a matter to court and bear the expense of litigation, the
lawyer, as an officer of the court, nevertheless owed a higher duty
to the court to assess whether it would be in the interests of the
administration of justice to pursue the matter: at            [175] and [178].
    
26.     The Court found that the present litigation was disproportionately
conducted by SRA in several ways. First, the conspiracy claim ought
not to have been part of the proceedings in the High Court because:
(a) the Commissioner had not authorised the bringing of the claim
in the High Court; (b) the claim was not even directed at SSA, but
was instead directed only at the Individual Defendants; (c) the
element of actionable loss or damage was not made out; and (d) most
strikingly, even if the claim had succeeded, the most SRA stood to
recover, on its best case, was a sum of $63,200, far below the
threshold for a claim to be mounted in the High Court. Second, SRA
failed to pursue more cost-effective options that it could have
taken, such as seeking an injunction to restrain SSA from acting on
the Circular Resolution and suspending its privileges at the NSC.
Third, although SRA ultimately succeeded in defending SSA’s
counterclaim for an indemnity, it failed to pursue a far simpler
means of arguing its case that was available to it: at[176], [179] and            [180].
   
27.     The appellants, on the other hand, had also behaved deplorably. The
genesis of the dispute could be traced to the appellants’ actions
in giving SRA the right to build the Proprietary Range, and then
completely reversing their position by seeking to undermine SRA
instead. To that end, Mr Vaz complained to BCA behind SRA’s back
about the construction of the Proprietary Range. After BCA issued
the Demolition Order, the appellants deceptively concealed the
option of regularising the Proprietary Range from SRA; and after
SRA found out about that option of its own accord, the appellants
refused to co-operate in the regularisation process in any way
whatsoever, and instead proceeded unilaterally to demolish the
Proprietary Range. The Court of Appeal registered its strong
disapproval of and dismay at the appellants’ conduct: at            [181]–[182].
   
28.     The Court considered that the appellants’ actions in engendering
this dispute and the way the litigation was conducted by SRA
reflected appallingly on both parties. It therefore ruled that
there would be no order as to the costs of the proceedings both in
the appeal and in the High Court, and that each party would bear
its own costs: at [183].
    
29.     In addition, the Court indicated that it was minded to require Mr
Vaz personally to indemnify and hold SSA harmless in respect of any
and all legal costs it had incurred or might become liable for as a
result of the proceedings. It was also minded to make an order
disallowing or limiting the costs recoverable by SRA’s solicitors
from SRA. The Court stated that before it made any orders to such
effect, it would afford Mr Vaz and SRA’s solicitors the opportunity
to make written submissions explaining why the respective orders
ought not to be made: at [184]–            [186].
    

Conclusion
30.     In summary, the appeal was allowed in part, in that SRA’s claim in
unlawful means conspiracy failed for lack of actionable damage and
its application for declaratory relief failed in the absence of a
real controversy. However, the appeal was dismissed where SSA’s
counterclaim for an indemnity for the cost of demolishing the
Proprietary Range was concerned: at [187].
  
31.     Given the disproportionate manner in which the litigation was
conducted by SRA as well as the appellants’ deplorable conduct,
there was no order as to the costs of the proceedings both in the
appeal and in the High Court, and each party was to bear its own
costs. In addition, further costs orders might be made by the Court
after it had heard from Mr Vaz and SRA’s solicitors respectively:
at [188].
    
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the
Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the
Court’s judgment.
    
