

 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


19 December 2019


Case summary


PEX International Pte Ltd v Lim Seng Chye and another 
[2019] SGCA 82


Civil Appeals Nos 181 and 183 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven
Chong):



Outcome: CoA clarifies the role of foreseeability in the tort of private
nuisance and upholds decision to find building owner liable for fire caused
by contractor


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment




    Foreseeability of the risk of harm is not generally necessary to
    mount a successful action in nuisance but foreseeability of the
    type of harm is relevant (at [59]).
        



Background to the appeals
     1.     The appeals involved a dispute in relation to a fire that caused    extensive damage to a building owned by Lim Seng Chye (“Lim”),     located at 15 Link Road (“No 15”). The fire occurred while    construction involving hot works was being carried out in an    adjoining property located at 17 Link Road (“No 17”). The owner and    occupier of No 17 was PEX International Pte Ltd (“PEX”). PEX had    engaged Formcraft Pte Ltd (“Formcraft”) as the contractor to carry    out the construction works. Lim brought a claim in negligence,    private nuisance and the rule in            John Rylands and Jehu Horrocks v Thomas Fletcher (1868) LR    3 HL 330 (“Rylands v Fletcher”) against PEX. In the court    below, the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) dismissed the claim in    negligence but allowed the claim in nuisance and the rule in            Rylands v Fletcher. 
Facts
    2.     Molly Chan Ai Teow (“Chan”) was the general manager of PEX and Ross
Tan Joo Kim (“Tan”) was the Chief Executive Officer of PEX. PEX was
introduced to the boss of Formcraft through the recommendation of a
friend of Chan and Tan, Poh Hui Choo (“Poh”). Chan and Tan
inspected the work that Formcraft had done on Poh’s premises and
were impressed with the quality. Poh also expressed satisfaction
with Formcraft’s work.
  
     3.       PEX engaged Formcraft for three separate construction projects. The
first and second projects were completed to PEX’s satisfaction.
Around August 2012, PEX contacted Formcraft to seek a quotation for
the third project: the construction of an extension to the rear of
No 17 (“the A&A works”). Formcraft told PEX that government
approvals were needed for the A&A works. On 26 September 2012,
PEX engaged ETS Design & Associates (“ETS”) to assist in making
all the necessary submissions to the authorities and to apply for
all the necessary permits and approvals for the A&A works.
   
     4.     On 25 February 2013, PEX signed and accepted a quotation from
Formcraft for the A&A works. The works listed in the quotation
included the construction of a brick wall separating No 17 and No
15. The quotation stated that PEX would pay Formcraft $16,000 for
“Preliminaries & Insurance, including hoarding &
protection”. However, Formcraft did not procure insurance for the
A&A works.
   
     5.     The fire broke out on 30 April 2013. The Singapore Civil Defence
Force’s investigation report on the fire made the following
findings which were not challenged by PEX and Lim:
    
               a)     The A&A works started six weeks before the fire.
             
               b)     On the day of the fire, a construction worker employed by
Formcraft was performing hot works on the top of
scaffolding at the backyard of No 17. At 9.30am, he was
welding a rebar to a steel column to support the brick wall
that was being constructed between No 15 and No 17. There
were strong winds at the time. The construction worker left
for a break at 10.00am and returned 15 minutes later to
continue his work. At 10.30am, he spotted the fire directly
below the position where he was performing the work.
      
               c)     The fire was caused by sparks from the hot works being
carried out at the backyard of No 17. These sparks were the
ignition source. These sparks fell onto the mattresses and
other miscellaneous items at the backyard of No 15, and
those items served as the ignition fuel. The strong winds
fanned the fire and caused the fire to spread.
        
     6.     It was also not disputed on appeal that:
   
               a) Formcraft was authorised by PEX to conduct the A&A
works and these works required hot works.
             
              b) There was no evidence that PEX knew that hot works were
being conducted on the day of the fire.
       
              c)   Formcraft was negligent in the performance of the A&A
works at No 17. It failed to ensure adequate supervision of
the works and it commenced the works without the requisite
permit and in defiance of the express instructions of ETS.
               d)  If a supervisor had been present during the welding works
on 30 April 2013, he would have noted the presence of
strong winds and the close proximity to flammable material
and would have put a stop to the welding.
        
The proceedings below
     7.     Lim commenced a suit against PEX and Formcraft on 19 April 2016.
Formcraft failed to enter an appearance and interlocutory judgment
was entered against Formcraft. The trial below proceeded against
PEX on the issues of liability alone. Lim’s claim against PEX was
founded on the tort of negligence, the tort of private nuisance and
the rule in Rylands v Fletcher.
   
     8.     The Judge found that PEX was not liable in negligence because PEX
had delegated the performance of the A&A works to Formcraft as
an independent contractor and PEX was not negligent in the
selection of Formcraft.
   
     9.     However, the Judge found that PEX was liable in the tort of private
nuisance. She highlighted that in order to establish nuisance
liability, there was a requirement of foreseeability of harm and
unreasonable use of land. PEX could have reasonably foreseen that
the work it had instructed Formcraft to do was likely to result in
a nuisance to Lim and there was unreasonable use of land, in part
because the hot works were executed in a manner that was
foreseeably unsafe. The Judge thus found PEX liable under the tort
of nuisance.
   
     10.     The Judge also found PEX liable in relation to the rule in            Rylands v Fletcher. Foreseeability of damage of the
relevant type was a perquisite of liability in damages under the
rule and PEX ought to have known that the A&A works it had
commissioned included hot works. The hot works which produced
sparks or molten globules amounted to a non-natural use of land.
These sparks constituted a dangerous “thing” which posed an
exceptionally high risk to neighbouring property should the sparks
escaped. The sparks escaped and caused extensive damage.
    
     11.     PEX appealed the Judge’s findings on the tort of private nuisance
and the rule in Rylands v Fletcher. Lim appealed the
Judge’s finding on negligence.
    

The Court of Appeal’s decision
     12.     In its grounds of decision, the Court of Appeal highlighted that it
dismissed both PEX and Lim’s appeals. The Court of Appeal agreed
with the Judge that Lim’s claim in negligence was not made out for
the reasons set out by the Judge. As for the claim in private
nuisance and the rule in Rylands v Fletcher, while the
Court of Appeal was of the view that the correct outcome was
reached, it highlighted that there were aspects of the Judge’s
decision that merited further clarification. As such, the grounds
of decision focused on private nuisance, with a particular emphasis
on the role of foreseeability in that tort.
    

The role of foreseeability in nuisance
     13.     The Court of Appeal noted that PEX argued on appeal that because it
could not have reasonably foreseen the fire, it should thus not be
liable for the claim in nuisance. The critical issue for
determination in the case was therefore whether and to what extent
the concept of foreseeability featured in determining liability for
nuisance (at [29]).
    
     14.     After examining the relevant authorities, the Court of Appeal
concluded that there were two competing approaches towards
foreseeability in the tort of private nuisance:
    
               a)
The first approach was that foreseeability of the risk of
harm was generally relevant in determining whether
liability in nuisance was established (at                    [51]).
        
                 b)  The second approach was that foreseeability of the                    risk of harm was not generally relevant in
establishing liability, with the relevant control mechanism
being the principle that the use of land must be
reasonable. Foreseeability of the type of harm,
however, was relevant in determining whether a type of loss
was too remote to be claimed (at [52]).
        
     15.     The Court of Appeal held that the second approach was preferred
over the first approach for three reasons.
    
                 a)     First, the second approach preserved the historical
distinction between the tort of negligence and the tort of
private nuisance. Nuisance was focused on the vindication
of the plaintiff’s interest and rights over his land while
negligence was focused on whether a defendant should be
made responsible for a fall in his standards of behaviour
below that which was expected in a particular society. This
distinction accounted for the differing emphasis on
foreseeability. The retention of this distinction also
provided a justification for the continued co-existence of
nuisance and negligence as separate torts, because these
torts protected different interests (at                    [56]).
        
                  b)     Second, the approach would be more consistent with the
original scope of nuisance as set out in the older cases.
The departure from the original position appeared to have
been contributed by the manner in which foreseeability had
been discussed in the cases. The distinction between
foreseeability of the type of harm and foreseeability of
the risk of harm had not always been explicitly drawn. This
had led to a blurring of the lines between the test for
remoteness of damage and that of establishing liability in
private nuisance (at [57]).
        
                   c)     Third, the principle that one should use his own property
in such a manner as not to injure that of another was
particularly important in land-scare Singapore, and this
militated in favour of imposing a stricter version of the
test for nuisance in Singapore (at [58]).


    16.     The Court of Appeal thus summarised that:
    
                   a)     Foreseeability of the risk of harm was not generally
necessary to mount a successful action in nuisance, even
where the source of the nuisance was the independent
contractor of the defendant. The relevant control mechanism
was the principle that any use of land that interfered with
the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his neighbouring land
must be reasonable.
        
                    b)     Foreseeability of the risk of harm was relevant only where
the acts which created the nuisance were not authorised by
the defendant, such as where the relevant acts originated
from a trespasser. This exception was founded on the basis
that in order to be liable in nuisance, the defendant must
first have used the land in an unreasonable
manner.
        
                     c)     Foreseeability of the type of harm was relevant in
determining whether the claim in nuisance satisfied the
requirement of remoteness of damage. Causation and
remoteness of damage were essential elements because the
tort would only be actionable on proof of damage.
        
Application to the case
     17.     The Court of Appeal found that to the extent the Judge took into
account the fact that PEX could have foreseen the risk of harm
occurring in coming to her decision on liability for nuisance, the
Judge erred in doing so. The works that created the nuisance were
authorised by the defendant, PEX, and thus, foreseeability of the
risk of harm was irrelevant. Nevertheless, the Court of Appeal
agreed with the Judge that there was an unreasonable use of land
because the hot works were done at the perimeter between No 15 and
No 17 in the presence of strong winds, in close proximity to the
flammable mattresses stored at the backyard of No 15 and
significantly, without any proper supervision of the workers. Lim’s
claim was also not too remote because the type of harm (damage due
to fire) was reasonably foreseeable by PEX since PEX authorised
Formcraft to conduct the A&A works which would ordinarily
involve hot works. Thus, the Judge was right to hold PEX liable for
nuisance (at [61], [62],             [63] and [64]).
    

The rule in Rylands v Fletcher
     18.     The Court of Appeal concluded with a brief analysis of the impact
of their decision on the rule in Rylands v Fletcher. The
Court of Appeal noted that one justification for the continued
existence of the rule in Rylands v Fletcher was that it
was an exception to a general rule in nuisance that foreseeability
of the risk of harm was relevant in establishing liability. The
Court of Appeal recognised that their decision would undermine this
distinction and thus it was an open question whether it remained
necessary to preserve the distinction between nuisance and the rule
in Rylands v Fletcher. However, the specific point was not
argued in the appeal and thus the Court of Appeal left this
question to be determined in a more appropriate case (at[67], [68] and            [69]).
    
     19.     The Court of Appeal highlighted that regardless of the proper
approach, the authorities uniformly established that foreseeability
of the risk of harm was not relevant to determining liability under
the rule in Rylands v Fletcher and therefore the Judge
erred in holding otherwise. Nevertheless, the Court of Appeal
dismissed PEX’s appeal on the rule in Rylands v Fletcher
because the court agreed with the Judge that there was a
non-natural use of the land and there was an escape of a dangerous
object onto Lim’s property. The Court of Appeal also found that the
loss was not too remote as the type of harm was foreseeable (at            [70]).
    
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.

