
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 May 2023Case summaryBhavin Rashmi Mehta v Chetan Mehta and others [2023] SGHC(A) 19     Civil Appeal No. 49 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):Outcome: The Appellate Division of the High Court dismisses the appeal in Civil Appeal No. 49 of 2022.Pertinent and significant points from the grounds of decision:•  The evidence established that the appellant had consented to the withdrawal of each notice of resignation: at [22]–[26].•  The applicability of the doctrine of estoppel by convention to non-contractual dealings has not been fully settled in Singapore: at [26]–[38].•  If estoppel by convention could have been invoked by the respondents, the appellant would have been estopped from denying the second respondent’s directorship: at [40].•  The point that a resignation is effective when a notice of resignation is sent did not preclude the withdrawal of the notice by consent: at [43].Background to the appeal1 The appellant (“Mr Bhavin”) and the first respondent (“Mr Chetan”) were directors and shareholders of the fourth respondent company (“Arpee Gem”). Arpee Gem was controlled by companies owned by Mr Bhavin and Mr Chetan’s families. Besides Mr Bhavin and Mr Chetan, the board of Arpee Gem comprised the second respondent (“Mr Sahni”), the third respondent (“Mr Quek”) and one Mr Pradipkumar Modi. 2 Arpee Gem was in direct control of two subsidiaries (“Kay Diamonds” and “GES”), which in turn owned another subsidiary (“MIC”).3 On 14 December 2015 and 4 December 2018 respectively, Mr Sahni submitted notices of resignation from his directorship in Arpee Gem (the “Resignations”). 4 In 2020, Mr Bhavin disagreed with Mr Chetan’s proposal to sell a property belonging to MIC (the “Property”). On 16 July 2021, Mr Chetan called for board meetings of Kay Diamonds and MIC for the purpose of convening annual general meetings (the “AGMs”) of the two companies. He sought to add to the agenda of Kay Diamond’s AGM the determination of who was authorised to vote on Kay Diamond’s behalf in MIC’s affairs, and to add to the agenda of MIC’s AGM the decision to sell the Property. 5 On 22 September 2021, Mr Bhavin received notice of the AGMs via email, as well as draft directors’ resolutions which sought to appoint Mr Chetan as Arpee Gem’s proxy for MIC’s and Kay Diamond’s AGMs. On 3 October 2021, Mr Bhavin received signed copies of the draft directors’ resolutions (the “Purported Resolutions”). The signatures of Mr Chetan, Mr Sahni and Mr Quek were on the Purported Resolutions. On 5 October 2021, Mr Bhavin objected by email to the validity of the Purported Resolutions.6 In HC/OS 1267/2021 (“OS 1267”), Mr Bhavin alleged that Mr Sahni had ceased to be a director of Arpee Gem and his approval of the Purported Resolutions was hence invalid. As OS 1267 was filed in reliance on ss 399(2) and 409A Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (the “CA”) which required an act that contravened the CA or related to a requirement necessitated by the CA, Mr Bhavin sought to rely on a contravention of ss 173A and 39 of the CA. Mr Bhavin also unsuccessfully applied to amend OS 1267 to rely on s 18 read with the First Schedule of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “SCJA”) so as to enforce ss 145(4A) and 145(4B) CA as an alternative basis for his claims. The respondents contended that the conduct of Arpee Gem, Mr Bhavin and Mr Sahni sufficed to amount to consent to the withdrawal of the Resignations, and that further/alternatively, Mr Bhavin was estopped by convention from denying that Mr Sahni continued to be a director of Arpee Gem. The Judge below dismissed OS 1267.Decision on appeal7 The Judge had based her decision on the narrow ground of whether it was open to Mr Bhavin to seek relief for Mr Sahni’s Resignations and did not make any finding on whether the Resignations were withdrawn by consent or whether estoppel by convention applied: at [19].8 While evidence about phone calls and meetings in 2015 and 2018 which were purportedly made to persuade Mr Sahni to stay on as director after his notices of resignation were sent would have to be resolved by trial, there was other evidence which did not need to be resolved by trial: at [21]. 9 First, Mr Bhavin had co-signed on financial statements of Arpee Gem for the financial years ending 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 with Mr Sahni as co-directors. Second, Mr Sahni invoiced for and was paid director’s fees for Arpee Gem until Mr Bhavin’s email on 5 October 2021 alleging that Mr Sahni was not a director. Third, there was an undated Indemnity and Undertaking signed in response to a letter dated 7 March 2019 about the winding up of Arpee Gem, which had been signed by Mr Sahni as a director and Mr Bhavin as a co-signatory. The evidence established that Mr Bhavin had consented to the withdrawal of each notice of resignation: at [22]–[26].10 With respect to whether estoppel by convention would apply, the applicability of the doctrine of estoppel by convention to non-contractual dealings had not been fully settled in Singapore: at [26]–[38].11 As it had been concluded that Mr Bhavin had consented to the withdrawal of each notice of resignation, it was not necessary for this court to consider whether estoppel by convention should apply beyond the contractual context or to shareholders or co-directors of a company. However, if estoppel by convention could have been invoked by the respondents, Mr Bhavin would have been estopped from denying Mr Sahni’s directorship: at [39]–[40].12 Although the respondents did not produce any other directors’ resolutions signed by Mr Sahni after the Resignations or any other documentation to establish that Mr Sahni had continued as a director with Arpee Gem’s consent, the available evidence sufficed to establish that Mr Sahni had continued to act and been permitted to continue to act as a director. The resolution passed on 24 December 2021 by the respondents to re-confirm Mr Sahni’s directorship appeared to further confirm his directorship to avoid argument rather than tell any other “truth of the matter” as suggested by Mr Bhavin: at [41].13 The point that a resignation is effective when a notice of resignation is sent did not preclude the withdrawal of the notice by consent. Otherwise, there could never be a withdrawal in most situations where notice of resignation is given: at [43].14 Mr Bhavin’s attempt to amend OS 1267 to rely on s 18 and the First Schedule of the SCJA to enforce ss 145(4A) and (4B) of the CA was misplaced. These provisions were to facilitate the resignation of a director even without the consent of the company and did not preclude the company and the director from agreeing to the withdrawal of his resignation notice: at [44].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision. 
