
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 May 2023Case summaryTiger Pictures Entertainment Ltd v Encore Films Pte Ltd [2023] SGHC 138General Division of the High Court – Originating Claim No 466 of 2022 (Summons No 926 of 2023)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Dedar Singh Gill):Outcome: HC dismisses application for an order that the simplified process under Part 2 of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Intellectual Property) Rules 2022 did not apply to the originating claim.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Cases under the simplified process will prioritise speed and cost-proportionality. They will be subject to more rigorous court control, with stricter limitations on the length of proceedings and caps on the costs and damages recoverable: at [20].•  The rationale behind the simplified process is to ensure that parties may continue to access the courts in a cost-effective and expeditious manner, which will be especially useful for less well-resourced parties such as individuals and small and medium enterprises (“SMEs”), who may otherwise be unable to enforce their valid intellectual property rights: at [22]. •  In determining if a case is suitable for the simplified process, the courts must consider all factors of the case in totality. Pertinent factors include whether a party can only afford to bring or defend a claim under the simplified process, the complexity of the issues and the estimated length of the trial: at [31]. Background to the dispute1 The dispute revolved around the rights to a popular Chinese film titled “Moon Man”. The claimant, Tiger Picture Entertainment Ltd, was the exclusive licensee of the distribution rights, reproduction rights and publicity rights of “Moon Man”. In August 2022, it began negotiations with the defendant, Encore Films Pte Ltd, to discuss the possibility of entering into a distribution agreement in respect of “Moon Man” in Singapore. These negotiations occurred over the social media platform, WeChat, and e-mail. 2 The parties disagreed on whether a binding agreement was reached. The claimant took the position that no contract was formed. The defendant, on the other hand, insisted that an agreement was entered into pursuant to the parties’ correspondence over WeChat and e-mail. It therefore proceeded to screen “Moon Man” in Singapore from 15 September 2022. 3 The claimant then brought a claim against the defendant for copyright infringement in December 2022. The defendant denied liability and raised two counterclaims against the claimant for making groundless threats and for infringing the defendant’s copyright in another film. The court’s decision4 The court dismissed the defendant’s application and allowed the claimant’s claim to proceed under the simplified process: at [37].Overview of the simplified process5 Cases which are found suitable for resolution under the simplified process will receive all directions, as far as practicable, at a single case conference and be subject to fixed and capped costs. The rationale behind the simplified process has not changed since its conception in 2015. It is to ensure that “parties may continue to access the courts in a cost-effective and expeditious manner”, which “will be especially useful for less well-resourced parties such as individuals and SMEs, who may otherwise be unable to enforce their valid [intellectual property] rights”: at [22].Applicability of the simplified process6 The simplified process may be triggered in two ways. The first is by a claimant filing and serving a form electing for the application of Part 2 and a form to abandon any claim for monetary relief in excess of $500,000. Despite the election by the claimant for the simplified process to apply, the court may make an order otherwise, having regard to the factors listed in r 4 of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Intellectual Property) Rules: at [24].7 The second way to trigger the simplified process is where the court may, on its own motion or on the application of a party, order a case to be resolved pursuant to the simplified process. It follows that the court should only make such an order when the relevant conditions under r 4(1) are satisfied: at [25]. Considerations of the court in determining if the claimant’s claim was suitable for determination under the simplified process8 There are three cumulative conditions which must be fulfilled before a claim is deemed suitable for resolution under the simplified process: at [26]. 9 The first condition is that the dispute must involve an intellectual property right. This was fulfilled here as the claimant is bringing a copyright infringement suit: at [27]. 10 The second condition is that the monetary relief claimed by each party (whether in relation to an intellectual property right or otherwise) in the action does not or is not likely to exceed $500,000 or all parties agree to the application of Part 2. The court held that this was satisfied. The claimant had filed and served a form to abandon any claim for monetary relief above $500,000. The quantum of the defendant’s counterclaims was unlikely to exceed $500,000. Not only had the defendant failed to particularise the losses sustained, it also had no standing to bring one of its counterclaims: at [28] – [30].11 The third condition requires the court to make a determination on the suitability of a claim for the simplified process based on all the factors in totality. The court held that greater emphasis should be placed on the three factors listed in rr 4(1)(c)(i) to 4(1)(c)(iii) of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Intellectual Property) Rules: whether a party can only afford to bring or defend a claim under the simplified process, the complexity of the issues and the estimated length of the trial. The fact that a party can only afford to bring or defend a claim under the simplified process will favour the application of the simplified process. That being said, most cases will likely turn on the complexity of the issues and the estimated length of the trial: at [31]. On the facts, the issues in the claim were “neither legally nor factually complex”: at [32]. The estimated length of the trial was also not expected to exceed two days: at [33]. Most communications between the parties had taken place through WeChat messages and e-mail, which meant that the parties’ witnesses were not required to testify on a wide range of factual issues. Finally, the quantum of the claimant’s claim rendered it suitable for the simplified process: at [33] – [36]. 12 Taking the factors in totality, the court had no doubt that this was an appropriate case for the simplified process: at [37].Concluding observations 13 The ultimate purpose behind the simplified process is to increase access to justice by ensuring that costs and time spent are kept proportionate to the complexity and value of a claim. This ensures that the resources of the judiciary and the parties are appropriately allocated. It also encourages intellectual property right holders to defend their intellectual property rights without the attendant fear of facing a long-drawn trial and a disproportionately large sum of costs (especially in the event they lose): at [38]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
