
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
29 November 2019
Case summary
Pradeepto Kumar Biswas v Sabyasachi Mukherjee and another [2019] SGCA 79 
Civil Appeal No 2 of 2019 (Summons No 91 of 2019)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: CoA strikes out appellant’s appeal for breach of an unless order. 
Pertinent and significant points of the grounds of decision

The appellant’s appeal was struck out for breach of an unless order as his attempt to comply with the unless order was not made bona fide, the breach was not a mere technical breach, and the interests of justice leaned in favour of striking out the appeal.

Introduction
1          This was a hearing to decide whether the appellant’s appeal in Civil Appeal No 2 of 2019 (“CA/CA 2/2019”) should be struck out for breach of an unless order.
Background
2          The appellant repeatedly failed to comply with various directions relating to the filing and service of his appeal documents for CA/CA 2/2019. On 12 September 2019, the Court administered an unless order to the appellant, requiring him to rectify the deficiencies in his appeal documents, serve the relevant documents on the respondents, and tender the relevant documents to the Registry by 30 September 2019, failing which CA/CA 2/2019 would be struck out (“the Unless Order”).
3          On 3 October 2019, the respondents wrote to the Registry stating that the appellant had failed to comply with the Unless Order. The Court therefore directed that there be a hearing to decide whether CA/CA 2/2019 should be struck out.
The Court’s ground of decision
4          The Court ordered that CA/CA 2/2019 should be struck out. The Court found that the appellant breached the Unless Order as he failed to meet the deadline stipulated in the Unless Order and to rectify the deficiencies in his appeal documents (at [17]–[19]).
5          The Court further found that the appellant’s breach of the Unless Order was contumelious and that it was not disproportionate to enforce the Unless Order for three reasons (at [21]).
6          First, the appellant’s conduct suggested that his attempt to comply with the Unless Order was not made bona fide. When administering the Unless Order, the Court highlighted the fact that the appellant had been afforded at least two opportunities to remedy his non-compliance with the relevant rules, but failed to make use of them. The Court further highlighted the fact that the appellant’s failure to comply caused significant delay and expenditure of judicial resources, and made it extremely clear to the appellant that he would be given one last opportunity to rectify his non-compliance. Despite all this, the appellant chose to carry out his obligations under the Unless Order at the very last minute, even though the deadline stipulated in the Unless Order was proposed by the appellant himself and gave him ample of time to remedy his non-compliance. Further, the respondents listed in some detail the various deficiencies of the appellant’s appeal documents. However, the appellant only rectified some of these deficiencies, leaving many of them unaddressed. Although the appellant was unrepresented, he was shown significant indulgence and the relevant rules which he was required to comply with were in no way particularly complex such that he would have had difficulty complying with them (at [22]–[25]).
7          Second, the appellant’s breach of the Unless Order was not a mere technical breach. The appellant omitted to include various documents that would have been key to his appeal (at [26]).
8          Third, the interests of justice leaned in favour of enforcing the Unless Order. As a result of the appellant’s failure to comply with the various directions and orders, there were four court hearings and three case management conferences, and the hearing of CA/CA 2/2019 – if allowed to proceed – would have been delayed by at least four months (at [27]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
