

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


27 November 2019


Case summary



Oro Negro Drilling Pte Ltd and others v Integradora de Servicios
Petroleros Oro Negro SAPI de CV and others and another appeal

[2019] SGCA 74



Civil Appeals No 194 of 2018 and 105 of 2019


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JA):



Outcome: Court of Appeal overturns High Court’s decision to set aside order
granting leave to serve an originating summons out of Singapore, grants
injunction against former directors and shareholder of
Singapore-incorporated companies for breaches of negative covenants.


Background to the appeal


1. The appellants were a group of Singapore-incorporated companies that
owned and operated oil rigs in Mexico with the first appellant, Oro Negro
Drilling Pte Ltd (“Oro Negro”), being the group’s holding company while
each of the second to sixth respondents (“the Rig Owners”) owned an oil rig
each (“the Rigs”). The Rigs were chartered to Perforadora Oro Negro S de RL
de CV (“Perforadora”), which in turn sub-chartered the Rigs to a subsidiary
of a Mexican state-owned company (“the Pemex charters”). Perforadora was
almost wholly owned by the first respondent, which was also Oro Negro’s
sole shareholder. The second and third respondents were the appellants’
former directors.


The material facts


2. The Rigs’ purchase and operation was financed by bonds issued by Oro
Negro to various bondholders pursuant to a bond agreement (“the Bond
Agreement”) between Integradora and a Norwegian company called Nordic
Trustee ASA (“NT”) which acted as the bond trustee on the bondholders’
behalf. Pursuant to the Bond Agreement, the appellants’ constitutions were
amended in 2016 to provide NT with a right to appoint an independent
director and for that independent director to have the power to veto any
attempt by the appellants to place themselves in insolvency-related
proceedings. An independent director was also eventually appointed pursuant
to NT’s directions (“the Independent Director”).


3. Between 2015 and 2017, Perforadora faced difficulties with the Pemex
Charters as the Mexican state-owned company sought various amendments to
the charters which were unfavourable to Perforadora.


4. In August 2017, the second and third respondents granted wide-ranging
powers of attorney to lawyers from a Mexican firm called Guerra (“the
Guerra POAs”), including the non-party, Mr Jesus Angel Guerra Mendez (“Mr
Mendez”). The Guerra POAs were wide-ranging and included powers to file
“all kinds of proceedings”, and they were also executed without the
Independent Director’s knowledge and approval.


5. On 20 September 2017 the first respondent passed a shareholder’s
resolution authorising: (a) the engagement of Guerra as Oro Negro’s lawyers
for the purposes of filing a concurso petition (insolvency
proceedings) on its behalf; and (b) the granting of powers of attorney to
Guerra to seek or desist proceedings on Oro Negro’s behalf. Oro Negro in
turn passed various shareholder’s resolutions to the same effect in respect
of the Rig Owners. Thereafter, and due to a concurso petition
filed by Perforadora, NT declared an event of default under the Bond
Agreement. It took over control of the appellants and replaced the second
and third respondents with its own appointees (“the new directors”).


6. On 29 September 2017, Guerra filed a concurso petition on the
appellants’ behalf in Mexico without the Independent Director’s approval.
The appellants’ new directors only learnt of this petition on 6 October
2017, and they eventually passed board resolutions to rescind any powers of
attorney granted on the appellants’ behalf. The new directors also
instructed new lawyers to file various motions to try and put a halt to the    concurso proceedings involving the appellants. Subsequently, the
appellants also commenced Originating Summons No 126 of 2018 (“OS 126”) in
Singapore, seeking, inter alia, declarations that the respondents
had no authority to represent the appellants, and various permanent
injunctions against them from doing so. They also applied for leave to
serve OS 126 out of Singapore, as well as for interim injunctions mirroring
the permanent injunctions.


7. The High Court Judge initially granted the appellants leave to serve OS
126 out of Singapore (“the Overseas Service Order”), as well as the interim
injunctions sought (“the Interim Injunctions”). However, she later granted
an application by the respondents for them to be set aside.


The Court of Appeal’s grounds of decision


8. The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal and restored both the Overseas
Service Order and the Interim Injunctions.


9. It held that the appellants had satisfied the requirements for leave to
serve OS 126 out of Singapore as:


a. They had raised good arguable cases against the second and third
respondents for breaches of negative covenants not to carry into effect any
petition to place the appellants in concurso and against the first
respondent for unlawful means conspiracy and/or inducing the appellants to
breach their constitutions (at [56]–[78]).


b. Singapore was the more appropriate forum to determine OS 126 as: (a) it
was the appellants’ place of incorporation; (b) the extent of proceedings
in Mexico was not relevant for the purposes of OS 126 and in any case did
not result in a substantive determination of the issues raised in OS 126;
(c) Singapore law governed the main issue raised in OS 126; and (d) the
presumption that Mexico was the appropriate forum to determine the tortious
claims was displaced since those claims were parasitic on the non-tortious
claims (at [82]–[92]).


10. It also held that the Judge was wrong to have discharged the interim
injunctions as:


a. The second and third respondents had breached negative covenants that
they were bound by (at [102]); and


b. Although the first respondent had not directly breached any negative
covenants, it had nevertheless procured the breaches of negative covenants
in this case (at [103]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


