

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


27 November 2019


Case summary



Liew Kit Fah and others v Koh Keng Chew and others


[2019] SGCA 78



Civil Appeal No 115 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven
Chong for the majority, consisting of Justice Quentin Loh and himself,
with Justice Belinda Ang Saw Ean dissenting):



Outcome: CoA by a majority allowed in part the appellants’ appeal
against the High Court’s decision directing a valuer not to apply discounts
in the valuation of the respondents’ minority shareholding.


Introduction


1 This appeal was against the High Court Judge’s (the “Judge”) decision
directing an independent valuer appointed by the parties not to apply
certain discounts in the valuation of the respondents’ minority
shareholding in various companies.


Background to the appeal


2 The respondents held 28% of the shares in the Samwoh Group while the
appellants collectively held the remainder.


3 The respondents brought suit against the appellants for minority
oppression. Prior to trial, the parties compromised and recorded a consent
order (the “Consent Order”) agreeing that the only issue to be determined
at trial was whether the appellants were to purchase the respondents’
shares in the Samwoh Group or vice versa (the “Buyout Issue”). The Consent
Order also recorded that the appellants would not admit to liability for
any of the alleged acts of oppression.


4 The Judge subsequently issued three decisions. In the first, which was
issued in July 2016 (“Koh Keng Chew (No 1)”), he ordered the
appellants to buy out the respondents (the “Buyout Order”). The parties
could not agree, however, on various issues subsequently. In January 2017,
the Judge issued a second decision (“Koh Keng Chew (No 2)”), in
which he gave certain directions as to the reference date for the valuation
as well as its process.


5 This appeal arose out of the Judge’s third decision, which stemmed from a
dispute between the parties as to whether the respondents’ shareholding
ought to be discounted for lack of control because they were minority
shares, and/or for lack of marketability because, being shares in privately
held companies, they were subject to share transfer restrictions.



Decision of the majority (delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven Chong on
behalf of Justice Quentin Loh and himself)



6 The court began by observing that, in deciding whether the relevant
discounts ought to apply, the Judge had proceeded on the basis that the
respondents had successfully established a case of minority oppression
against the appellants (at [15]). Consequently, the Judge
viewed the sale of the respondents’ shares to the appellants as a compelled
sale akin to the usual sale pursuant to a court-ordered buyout of shares
under the statutory minority oppression regime (at [17]).
In the court’s judgment, this was incorrect because a court’s powers to
order a buy-out of shares under the statutory oppression regime were only
enlivened where it was satisfied that a case of minority oppression had
been established (at [20]). The Consent Order had recorded
parties’ agreement to dispense with the issue of liability for minority
oppression and the Judge had accordingly not made any finding in that
regard. There was therefore no proper legal basis to invoke the court’s
powers to order a buy-out of shares under the statutory oppression regime
(at [21]).


7 The court agreed with the parties as well as the Judge that whether the
relevant discounts ought to apply would turn on the question whether the
respondents could be treated as willing sellers of their shares in the
Samwoh Group (at [29]). It stressed that this question was
not simply concerned with whether, given a choice, a minority shareholder
would prefer to be a buyer instead of a seller of the relevant shares.
Instead, the concept of willingness in this context turned on whether the
minority shareholder’s interests had been unfairly prejudiced by the
majority’s conduct, which thereby made it no longer tolerable for him to
retain his interest in the company (at [30] and [    34]). In the case at hand, given the terms of the Consent
Order as well as the absence of any finding on liability for minority
oppression, the respondents were to be treated as willing sellers of their
shares under the Buyout Order for the purposes of ascertaining whether the
relevant discounts ought to apply (at [41]).


8 In relation to the discount for lack of control, the court noted that in
the context of a buyout of a minority shareholding pursuant to a consent
order where the seller was to be treated as akin to a willing seller, this
discount would typically apply (at [48]). The respondents
in the case at hand were to be regarded as willing sellers of their
minority shareholding, as they had elected not to pursue the oppression
action, and the Consent Order was in essence a freely negotiated
transaction (at [50]). The appellants were also not a
concrete bloc of shareholders that would consolidate their control of the
Samwoh group through the purchase of the respondents’ shares (at [    52]). The court held accordingly that a minority discount
for lack of control ought to apply in the valuation of the respondents’
shares in the Samwoh group (at [53]).


9 In relation to the discount for lack of marketability, the court noted
that in a case where liability for minority oppression was not established,
the only way out for a disenchanted shareholder would be through the
established processes for the sale of shares under the company’s articles.
Those processes invariably contained restrictions on the transfer of
shares, which gave rise to their lack of marketability (at [    58]). However, since a discount for the lack of
marketability would be industry specific, it should not invariably be
treated in the same way as a discount for lack of control. The court
accordingly left it to the expertise of the independent valuer to decide
whether to apply the lack of marketability discount for the respondents’
shares (at [59]).



Decision of the minority (delivered by Justice Belinda Ang Saw Ean)



10 Belinda Ang Saw Ean J would have dismissed the appeal and affirmed the
decision of the Judge not to impose a minority discount on the sale of the
respondents’ shares (at [64]). The coercive nature of the
Buyout Order was not in and of itself a sufficient reason not to apply a
minority discount. However, taking into consideration all the facts and
circumstances of the present case, no minority discount should be imposed
(at [74]).


11 In a no-fault buyout like in this case, what counts is whether the
purchase at a fair value is fair, just and equitable as between the
parties. There were two valuation issues – the applicability of a discount
and the reference date for the valuation. Both valuation issues are closely
connected, in that they both affect the final price at which the shares
will be bought out. As such, the appropriate legal approach to determining
whether a discount ought to be applied to the respondents’ shares would
follow the same principle as that applied by the Judge to determine the
valuation date of the shares, that is to say, the court would reach a price
that is fair, just and equitable as between the parties. This is distinct
from saying that the court-ordered buyout was in fact made pursuant to s
216(2) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (the “Companies Act”) (at
[71]).


12 The appellants submitted that since the Judge had made no finding of
oppression, the price of the respondents’ shares should be determined
according to their fair market value, which attracts the application of
discounts for lack of control and lack of marketability. However, there is
a difference between fair value and market value (at [79
]). The concept of market value is a determinative price after negotiations
as between a willing buyer and a willing seller in the open market (at [    71]). In contrast, the essence of the fair value concept
is the desire to be equitable to both parties. The fair value of shares is
ordinarily the pro rata value of such shares without a discount (at [    83]-[84].


13 The following factors militated against the imposition of a minority
discount:


a. It is possible that a no-fault buyout is likened to a forced sale – a
sale in which one party is an unwilling seller (at [88]).
In the present case, the lack of a finding of oppression was because the
parties chose not to litigate that issue. It does not mean that in a
no-fault buyout a minority discount must inevitably be imposed (at [    89]). Here, weight can still be given to the circumstances
of the present case, which show that the respondents did not wish to exit
the Samwoh Group. Although the Judge may have erred in his reasoning that
the Buyout Order was coercive because it was made pursuant to s 216(2) of
the Companies Act, weight can nonetheless be given to the general
circumstances surrounding the respondents’ exit (at [90]).


b. Discounts for lack of control and lack of transferability are commonly
applied in the context of a sale of a minority stake in a company to an
outsider. Where, however, the sale is to an existing shareholder in the
company, it is difficult to see why these discounts ought still to apply.
As the Buyout Order was between the respondents and the appellants as
existing shareholders in the Samwoh Group, the rationale underpinning the
usual application of each type of discount did not apply (at [    92]). There was no basis to apply a discount for lack of
marketability as it was not imaginable that the appellants would enforce
any restrictions on the transfer of the respondents’ shares to themselves
(at [93]). As for the discount for lack of control, the
rationale underpinning it is that when an external party buys a minority
stake into a company, that investor is taking on certain risks due to the
lack of control that he would have over the way the company is run. These
considerations would not arise because the respondents were not selling
their shares to an external party. Instead, the appellants were even
gaining an additional benefit from the shares by consolidating their
shareholding in the Samwoh Group(at [94]).


c. Acquisition of the respondents’ shares would give the appellants a
meaningful increase in control over the Samwoh Group, which they otherwise
would not have had. It would increase the shareholding of the appellants’
block over the 75% threshold that is required for, effectively, full
control over the companies in the Samwoh Group by means of passing special
resolutions (at [95]).


d. The respondents had not originally acquired their shares at a discounted
price to reflect their minority status (at [100]). It was
not disputed that Mr Koh Keng Chew was an initial investor in Samwoh
Corporation Pte Ltd (“Samwoh Corp”), and was one of the first-generation
directors who first started the business as a partnership, and later moved
to incorporate Samwoh Corp so as to move into the business of asphalt
premix concrete. Since then, Samwoh Corp has expanded into other
businesses, for which the other companies in the Samwoh Group were
incorporated. The Judge also found that the respondents had contributed to
the success of the Samwoh Group. It would be unfair to now impose a
minority discount on the respondents’ sale of those shares (at [    101]).


14 The upshot of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of Samwoh Corp
(“Samwoh’s Articles”) is that existing shareholders have a right of first
refusal when another shareholder wishes to sell his shares in the company
(at [103]). Samwoh’s Articles are relevant only in the
absence of court action. In this case, parties entered into the Consent
Order which had the effect of creating a completely new exit mechanism for
the respondents (at [104]). Further, the respondents’
position under Samwoh’s Articles cannot be compared to their present
position, which is that the respondents did not wish to exit the Samwoh
Group. Samwoh’s Articles therefore would have provided no recourse for the
respondents (at [105]).


15 In any event, it could not be said that the Buyout Order was nothing
more than an agreed sale. That would be to mischaracterise the effect of
the Consent Order, and to omit to take into account the text of the Consent
Order and the context surrounding the parties’ decision to enter into the
Consent Order in the first place. In reality, the Consent Order reflected
the impasse in existence between the parties as to which party should be
forced to exit the Samwoh Group (at [107]). It was evident
from the text of the Consent Order that the respondents wanted to remain in
the company and was normatively not a willing seller (at [    108]). There is a distinction between accepting the
possibility of being ordered to sell one’s shares despite desiring not to
be bought out, and agreeing wholeheartedly to selling one’s shares (at [    109]).


16 While it could be accepted as a general proposition that if a minority
shareholder commences a minority oppression action purely for tactical
reasons and as a device to withdraw from the company by selling his shares
at their full price, that is not something that the court should
countenance (at [113]). However, that no finding of
oppression was made is inconclusive evidence of the respondents having
commenced Suit 125 for purely tactical reasons (at [115]).
That the respondents did not initially seek a buyout of the appellants’
shares is also neither here nor there (at [114]). The
Consent Order could not be viewed as an election by the respondents to
abandon their s 216 action. The parties were merely narrowing the scope of
issues to be litigated at trial (at [116]). To construe
the mere entering by the parties into the Consent Order as tantamount to an
abandonment of the respondents’ action would operate as a dampener on
genuine attempts by parties to compromise their disputes. Such an approach
would have the effect of creating a rule that parties who compromise
liability and consent to a court order for a share buyout have their shares
assessed on a “willing seller and willing buyer” basis, such that minority
shareholders invariably receive minority discounts on their valuations (at
[117]).


17 There was some difficulty with accepting the appellants’ submission that
the Consent Order was the basis of the court’s power to make the Buyout
Order, as opposed to s 216(2) of the Companies Act as there was no finding
of oppression to enliven the statutory power (at [119]-[    120]). Specifically, the difficulty was with the view that
that the parties could have conferred on the court the power to make a
share buyout solely by their consent. This ran contrary to the
well-established principle that parties cannot confer jurisdiction upon the
court (at [121]). The local authorities relied upon merely
demonstrate that factually the court has countenanced a compromise on the
issue of oppression before. Crucially, the source of the court’s power to
make a share buyout order was never closely examined in those cases (at [    127]). As the position in Singapore is not conclusively
settled, it would be open to the court, in some future case, to determine a
sound juridical basis for the exercise of its powers in making a buyout
order where the parties have compromised on the issue of minority
oppression (at [135]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


