

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


26 November 2019


Case summary




Armstrong, Carol Ann (executrix of the estate of Peter Traynor,
deceased and on behalf of the dependents of Peter Traynor,
deceased)



v Quest Laboratories Pte Ltd and another and other appeals
[2019] SGCA 75



Civil Appeals Nos 70, 71, and 72 of 2018


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice
Andrew Phang Boon Leong):



Outcome: A five-Judge coram of Court of Appeal affirms finding
that a consultant pathologist and lab had misdiagnosed a patient, causing
his death by giving clean bill of health when he had malignant melanoma.
The Court allows widow’s appeal that the Respondents’ negligence caused
patient to lose his full life expectancy (as compared to four years of his
life). Both parties’ appeals were partially allowed as to calculation of
damages.


The Court outlines several significant principles regarding causation in
medical negligence, the use of statistical evidence, and dependency and
loss of inheritance claims.


Introduction


1 The appellant, Ms Carol Ann Armstrong (“the Appellant”) is the widow of
the deceased, Mr Peter Traynor (“Mr Traynor”). The Appellant brought suit
on behalf of Mr Traynor’s estate and his dependents against Quest
Laboratories Pte Ltd (“Quest”) and Dr Tan Hong Wui (“Dr Tan”) (collectively
“the Respondents”), alleging that their negligence had caused Mr Traynor’s
death.


2 In September 2009, Mr Traynor discovered a bloodstain on his shirt and
consulted his general practitioner, who shaved a mole (“the primary
tumour”) from his back and sent it to the Respondents for a review. The
Respondents returned a pathology report stating, “[t]here is no
malignancy”. It transpired the primary tumour was in fact a malignant
melanoma. Mr Traynor passed away from metastatic melanoma four years later,
at the age of 49, leaving behind the Appellant, and their two daughters
aged 10 and 12.


3 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) found that the Respondents’ breach was
“straightforward and obvious”. The primary tumour could not have been a
benign “Spitz naevus”, which were usually seen in children, since Mr
Traynor was a 45-year-old man. They were negligent in sending a clean bill
of health when the circumstances required at least further examination. As
to causation, the Judge rejected the Respondents’ assertion that Mr
Traynor’s fate was already biologically determined and he would have died
from his cancer anyway. However, the Judge also rejected the Appellant’s
claim that Mr Traynor would have been cured and instead found he would only
have lived for four more years. On that basis, he allowed part of the
Appellant’s claim for dependency and loss of inheritance.


The Court of Appeal’s decision as to breach


4 The Court affirmed the Judge’s findings as to breach. None of the
pathologists or experts was prepared to conclusively state that the
specimen given to the Respondents to review was a benign tumour, and yet
this was exactly what the Respondents had done in stating that “[t]here is
no malignancy”. Even the Respondents’ own expert accepted that no competent
pathologist would have taken that view, and in atypical cases, the approach
should be to give a preferred diagnosis while acknowledging a degree of
uncertainty. As to the tests inBolam v Friern Hospital Management Committee [1957] 1 WLR 582 (“    Bolam”) and Bolitho v City and Hackney Health Authority
[1998] 1 AC 232 (“Bolitho”), the Court held that the    Bolitho addendum was not even engaged as there was no material
difference in opinion between any of the pathologists or experts (at    [54] and [65]).


5 The Court was not fully persuaded the correct diagnosis could have been
equivocal. A reasonable and competent pathologist would at least have
concluded that the specimen was suggestive of, if not straightforwardly, a
malignant melanoma. Crucial features of the specimen were unequivocally
observable, and under the Bolam standard these observable features
supported a subsequent interpretation of an unequivocally malignant
melanoma. Even Dr Tan revised his diagnosis after viewing deeper levels of
the specimen in 2012, to diagnose the specimen as “suggestive of a
melanoma” (at [55], and [58]–    [59]).


6 The Court pointed out that the Respondents’ own expert had accepted that
lives depended upon accurate diagnoses by pathologists and had to be
undertaken with diligence. This did not mean that pathologists had to get
it right all the time, but at a minimum, if a pathologist could not rule
out the worst-case scenario, they should state so in their report. The
Respondents had not only failed to state that the worst-case was not ruled
out, they had delivered a report stating the exact opposite – that there
was no malignancy. The Court agreed with the Judge that if Mr Traynor had
been informed that the mole on his back was not benign, this would have
result in a completely different course of action. Misled by the
Respondents, Mr Traynor did not seek further medical treatment for a
cancerous melanoma (at [66]–[69]) .


 



The Court of Appeal’s preliminary observations on causation



7 The Court of Appeal rejected the Respondents’ submission that theBolam-Bolitho test should apply to questions of causation. The    Bolam-Bolitho test was concerned with whether the general
professional standard was met and the potential diversity of views as to
what the practitioner ought to have done (a quasi-normative question), and
was not concerned with a diversity of views as to factual causation, which
is a question of evidence and about what had actually happened (a purely
descriptive question) (at [75]–[77]).


8 The Court considered that the policy considerations in retaining the    Bolam-Bolitho test, such as the concerns over defensive medicine,
were relevant to breach, but fundamentally irrelevant in the context of
causation. If a practitioner had complied with professionally reasonable
standards, it would not matter if the treatment he or she has or has not
prescribed had led to the patient suffering loss. He or she had not
breached her professional duties and would not be held liable (at    [79] and [81]–[84]).


9 The Court clarified the tests of factual causation (including but-for
causation) and legal causation. It held that a judge is not invariably
bound to make findings of fact, but where he or she does so, it need not be
an invariable election between expert opinions, and the judge is not bound
to accept or reject expert evidence in its entirety. The ultimate
considerations were consistency, logic, coherence, and a focus on the
objective evidence (at [85]–[87] and    [92]).


10 There was a distinction between fact probability (which was the evidence
that spoke to the causal connection), and belief probability (which was the
degree of strength and credibility attributed by the decision-maker to the
evidence). Statistical evidence was really just fact probability, and while
a court could place its belief in that piece of fact probability, it need
not invariably do so. It was but one factor in the overall mix (at    [97] and [99]).


11 The error in the House of Lord’s majority decision in    Gregg v Scott [2005] 2 AC 176 (“Gregg v Scott”) was in
the incorrect application of statistical evidence. The first fallacy lay in
the comparison. The statistical evidence pertaining to other patients who
were not misdiagnosed was at best a proxy for what might have been, and did
not reflect what actually happened to the patient who was misdiagnosed. The
second error was conflating the tools of analysis with the object of
analysis. It was also not correct to substitute the 42 per cent figure in
the statistical evidence (the fact probability) for the standard of the
balance of probabilities, which was really the degree the court was
convinced (the belief probability) (at [106]–    [107]).


The Court of Appeal’s decision as to causation


12 The only cause of Mr Traynor’s death was the melanoma that had spread
through his bloodstream from his infected lymph nodes after 2009, which the
Respondents’ breach had allowed to grow due to the delay in diagnosis. The
Respondents’ defence that melanoma had already migrated from the primary
tumour or lymph nodes to his distant organs via his bloodstream and had
stayed dormant before they misdiagnosed him in 2009 was rejected. At best,
all the Respondents could show was a possibility of dormancy and spread
before September 2009. In contrast, the Appellant’s expert who had vast
experience in this particular field testified that the probability that a
tumour was dormant and not detected for over three years was very, very
rare. The Respondents’ case also portended a longer period of dormancy than
the Appellant’s case, and was less feasible (at [125],[131], [144]–[147],    [175] and [192]).


13 As of September 2009, only Mr Traynor’s sentinel lymph nodes were
infected with melanoma and he would have availed of a sentinel lymph node
biopsy (“SLNB”), which would have surgically removed them. The various
large scale studies cited by the Respondents were not appropriate, as in Mr
Traynor’s specific situation, all of the melanoma was confined to the
sentinel lymph nodes and would have been eradicated by SLNB, thus curing
him. The Judge’s finding that Mr Traynor had only lost four years of his
life was reversed: instead damages should be calculated on the basis of his
full life expectancy (at [150], [160],    [186]–[192]).


14 The Court remarked that in addition to reports and slides it is a matter
of good practice for the parties and experts to also make available the
supporting literature and source material and to carefully cite it in
context, so that the court could test the accuracy, veracity,
methodological rigour, logic, and explanatory force of the expert’s opinion
(at [164]).


 


 


The Court of Appeal’s decision as to damages


15 The Court of Appeal revised the Judge’s determination of Mr Traynor’s
annual income from $450,000 to $308,386. Among other things, since it was
the Appellant who was submitting for the $450,000 figure, it was incumbent
on the Appellant to prove that figure, but she had not provided an
explanation for the large bonus that led to this amount (at    [204]–[206]).


16 The Court affirmed the majority of the Judge’s findings on the pre-trial
dependency claim. The Appellant could not rely on both the “traditional
method” to get a 100% of the portions she could prove, and also rely on the
“conventional percentages” under the “percentage deduction method to get
75% for the portions she could not prove. However, the Court accepted that
at least some proportion of the Traynor family’s expenses of $243,000 would
have been spent on the dependents and held that 50% would be fair. Since
the Judge’s award was initially predicated on his finding of four years of
life expectancy, which had been reversed, the determination of the
post-trial dependency claim and other factors were remitted for his
consideration (at [222] and [230]–    [240]).


17 The Court affirmed the majority of the Judge’s findings on the pre-trial
loss of inheritance claims. The multiplier-multiplicand should be
calculated separately for the purposes of the Dependency Claim and the Loss
of Inheritance Claim. However, the Judge’s award was remitted for further
deliberation to take into account, among other things, the reduction in Mr
Traynor’s estimated annual income, and the post-trial loss of inheritance
claim (at [249]–[260]).


18 The Court also expressed the view that it would be in the interests of
the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement in relation to the
issue of damages, both for the purposes of effecting closure and to save
costs (at [196]).


19 The Court expressed its gratitude to the learned amicus curiae,
Prof Gary Chan Kok Yew, who had provided extensive submissions, admirable
analytical rigour, and wide-ranging arguments on the loss of a chance
doctrine. However, as the Appellant had succeeded in her primary claim for
a cure, it was unnecessary to determine the controversy surrounding the
loss of a chance doctrine, which was reserved for an appropriate case in
the future (at [193] and [273]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


