
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
25 November 2019
Case summary
Moad Fadzir bin Mustaffa v Public Prosecutor and other appeals [2019] SGCA 73
Criminal Appeals Nos 12, 14 and 18 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Tay Yong Kwang):
Outcome: Court of Appeal affirmed Moad Fadzir’s conviction and the mandatory death sentence for trafficking in not less than 36.93g of diamorphine, and affirmed Zuraimy’s conviction and sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment for abetting Moad Fadzir to possess the diamorphine.
The charges
1          Moad Fadzir bin Mustaffa (“Moad Fadzir”) and Zuraimy bin Musa (“Zuraimy”) were tried jointly in the High Court, each on a charge of trafficking in not less than 36.93g of diamorphine, by having in his possession those drugs for the purpose of trafficking, in furtherance of their common intention. The diamorphine was contained in four packets of granular substances. Both Moad Fadzir and Zuraimy claimed trial with each alleging that the four packets containing diamorphine belonged to the other.
2          The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) found Moad Fadzir guilty on his charge and convicted him. The Judge found that he did not satisfy any of the requirements of s 33B(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). Accordingly, the Judge imposed the mandatory death sentence on him. As for Zuraimy, the Judge was not satisfied that the Prosecution had proved the charge against him beyond reasonable doubt. The Judge amended the charge against Zuraimy to one for the offence of abetment by intentionally aiding Moad Fadzir to possess not less than 36.93g of diamorphine. The Judge found Zuraimy guilty on the amended charge, convicted him accordingly, and sentenced him to the maximum term of ten years’ imprisonment.
3          Moad Fadzir, Zuraimy and the Prosecution appealed against the Judge’s decision, as follows:
(a)        in Criminal Appeal No 12 of 2019 (“CCA 12”), Moad Fadzir appealed against his conviction and sentence, disputing the elements of knowledge of the nature of the drugs and possession of the drugs for the purpose of trafficking;
(b)        in Criminal Appeal No 14 of 2019 (“CCA 14”), the Prosecution appealed against the acquittal of Zuraimy on the original trafficking charge; and
(c)        in Criminal Appeal No 18 of 2019 (“CCA 18”), Zuraimy appealed against his sentence on the amended charge, on the ground that it was manifestly excessive.
The factual background
4          On the night of 11 April 2016, Moad Fadzir went to meet Zuraimy at Block 1 Holland Close. Moad Fadzir then drove a car to Block 157 Toa Payoh with Zuraimy in the front passenger seat. After the car was parked at the loading/unloading bay there, an unknown Indian man walked to the driver’s side and threw a white plastic bag through the front window and it landed on Moad Fadzir’s lap. Moad Fadzir passed the white plastic bag to Zuraimy who tied it. The white plastic bag was subsequently placed in Moad Fadzir’s black helmet sling bag (“black bag”) in the car.
5          Moad Fadzir then drove Zuraimy back to Block 1 Holland Close. Moad Fadzir then drove the car, with the black bag inside, to his residence at Block 623 Woodlands Drive 52. When he alighted from the car at around 12.15am on 12 April 2016, the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) officers arrested him. Zuraimy was arrested by CNB officers separately later in the morning of 12 April 2016 when he came down from his flat in Block 1 Holland Close.
6          When Moad Fadzir was arrested, he was carrying the black bag from the car. Inside the white plastic bag was a red plastic bag containing four bundles wrapped in black tape. These “four black bundles” were the four packets of granular substances mentioned in the respective charges.
The Court’s decision
7          In respect of Moad Fadzir, it was beyond dispute that he had physical possession of the white plastic bag with the four black bundles, since he was arrested while carrying them in his black bag (at [57]). In respect of the admissibility of his contemporaneous statements P84 and P85, the Court was of the view that Moad Fadzir had made them voluntarily and the Judge was therefore right to admit them in evidence (at [73]). Despite Moad Fadzir’s assertions about his doped mental state when P84 was recorded, he was actually quite clear-headed throughout that period of time, and there was also no evidence that he had consumed Ipam tablets and cough syrup just before he was arrested (at [66] and [69]). Further, even if the recording officer had told Moad Fadzir that his mother would be brought in for questioning as she lived in the flat where diamorphine and a digital weighing scale were found, this could not amount to a threat that “sapped the free will” of Moad Fadzir so as to render his contemporaneous statements P84 and P85 inadmissible (at [71]).
8          The Court was also of the view that the Judge was right to consider Moad Fadzir’s contemporaneous statement in P84 in coming to his finding that Moad Fadzir knew that the white plastic bag contained diamorphine, this being a piece of information Moad Fadzir provided in P84 (at [74] and [75]).
9          The Court also found that Moad Fadzir failed to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17(c) of the MDA. His defence that he was acting under Zuraimy’s directions and was merely a custodian of the drugs for Zuraimy was rejected and there was no other rebuttal evidence (at [87]). The Court agreed with the Judge that it was Moad Fadzir who transacted in the diamorphine received from the male Indian, with Zuraimy acting as the middleman (at [86]). 
10        Accordingly, Moad Fadzir was guilty of having in his possession, for the purpose of trafficking, the four black bundles containing 36.93g of diamorphine. As Moad Fadzir did not satisfy the “courier and certificate” requirements in s 33B(2) of the MDA, he was not eligible for the alternative sentencing provided in s 33B(1)(a). Accordingly, the mandatory death penalty had to be imposed because the quantity of diamorphine in question was more than 15g (at [88]).
11        In respect of Zuraimy, he accepted that he knew that the transaction in Toa Payoh concerned diamorphine. However, he was not deemed to be in joint possession of the diamorphine with Moad Fadzir under s 18(4) of the MDA, because he was simply a middleman giving Moad Fadzir directions to Toa Payoh to collect the diamorphine. Section 18(4) states: “Where one of 2 or more persons with the knowledge and consent of the rest has any controlled drug in his possession, it shall be deemed to be in the possession of each and all of them.” Nevertheless, the Court was of the view that the facts of this case failed only marginally to show “consent” within the meaning of s 18(4) as it was arguable that Zuraimy helped in concealing the drugs by tying the white plastic bag and then placing it in Moad Fadzir’s black bag (at [98]).
12        Given that Zuraimy was not in joint possession of the diamorphine with Moad Fadzir, the presumption of trafficking under s 17 of the MDA could not apply in Zuraimy’s case (at [99]). The Court declined to rule on the question whether the Prosecution could rely on the deeming provision for joint possession in s 18(4) in conjunction with the presumption of trafficking under s 17 (at [100]).
13        The Court agreed with the Judge that the criminal act element and the participation element for the common intention charge were made out because Zuraimy abetted Moad Fadzir in obtaining actual physical possession of the drugs by helping him with directions to Toa Payoh to collect the drugs. However, the common intention element was not proved beyond reasonable doubt, because it was not proved that Zuraimy knew Moad Fadzir was purchasing the diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking. There was no joint enterprise between the two men as to any further dealing with respect to the diamorphine (at [101]).
14        The Court therefore affirmed the Judge’s conclusion that Zuraimy was not guilty on the original charge of possession for the purpose of trafficking in diamorphine in furtherance of a common intention with Moad Fadzir. Zuraimy was instead guilty on the amended charge of abetment by intentionally aiding Moad Fadzir to possess the diamorphine (at [102]).
15        The Court held that the maximum sentence of ten years’ imprisonment for Zuraimy’s conviction on the amended charge was justified because he knew that he was aiding Moad Fadzir to possess diamorphine. Zuraimy also had numerous drug-related antecedents, and the quantity of diamorphine involved turned out to be high (at [104]).
Conclusion
16        Since there was no common intention between Moad Fadzir and Zuraimy to possess diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking, the Court amended the charge against Moad Fadzir by deleting the references to common intention. Moad Fadzir confirmed that his defence case remained the same and his evidence would be the same as that adduced during the trial in the High Court. The Court thus affirmed the conviction and the mandatory death sentence based on this amended charge. Moad Fadzir’s appeal in CCA 12 was therefore dismissed (at [106]).
17        The Court also affirmed Zuraimy’s conviction on the amended charge of abetment by intentionally aiding Moad Fadzir to possess the diamorphine and the sentence of ten years’ imprisonment. Accordingly, the Prosecution’s appeal in CCA 14 and Zuraimy’s appeal in CCA 18 were dismissed (at [107]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
