




SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


19 November 2019


Case summary



Independent State of Papua New Guinea v PNG Sustainable Development
Program Ltd

[2019] SGCA 72



Civil Appeal No 78 of 2019 (Summons No 116 of 2019)


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Woo Bih Li J):



Outcome: Single-judge Court of Appeal dismisses respondent’s application
for stay of appeal pending appellant’s payment of costs below.


Background


1 The applicant in Summons No 116 of 2019 (“SUM 116”), PNG Sustainable
Development Program Limited (“PNGSDP”), is the respondent in the main
appeal, Civil Appeal No 78 of 2019 (“CA 78”). It succeeded before the High
Court in defending the claims brought by the Independent State of Papua New
Guinea (“the State”), and was awarded costs. The State filed CA 78 to
appeal against the High Court judge’s decision to dismiss all of its claims
against PNGSDP.


2 While the main appeal was pending, PNGSDP filed SUM 116 to stay the
appeal until the State paid the costs awarded by the High Court totalling
$2,522,356.07 (the “Outstanding Sum”). PNGSDP relied principally on the
Court of Appeal’s decision in the case of

Roberto Building Material Pte Ltd and others v Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp Ltd and another

[2003] 2 SLR(R) 353 (“Roberto”), where it was recognised that the
appellate court has the inherent jurisdiction to stay an appeal until the
appellant paid to the respondent the costs awarded by the court below,
where the justice of the case so demanded.


3 PNGSDP submitted that there were two factors which made the
circumstances of the present case exceptional such that a stay of the
appeal was justified. First, it suggested that the State was able but
simply unwilling to pay the Outstanding Sum and therefore was abusing
the process of the court in failing to comply with the costs orders.
Second, PNGSDP submitted that it would face difficulties enforcing the
various costs orders against the State because enforcement would have
to be undertaken in Papua New Guinea as the State was not within
Singapore’s jurisdiction.


4 The State, on the other hand, denied PNGSDP’s allegations that it was
able but unwilling to pay the Outstanding Sum. It explained that it faced
difficulties in paying the Outstanding Sum because of strict foreign
exchange controls in place in Papua New Guinea, which made it difficult for
it to transfer large sums of foreign currency at short notice. The State
also argued that PNGSDP was seeking to stifle its right of appeal by
bringing the stay application.


The Court of Appeal’s decision 


5 The Court of Appeal dismissed SUM 116. The court found that the two
allegations made by PNGSDP (see [3] above) were not made out on the
evidence. Hence, there was no basis for the stay to be granted (at    [38]).


Abuse of process 


6 The court found that there was insufficient evidence to establish that
the State was deliberately and wilfully refusing to pay the Outstanding
Sum, and abusing the process of the court as a result (at [    40]). While there were some inadequacies in the evidence
given by the State on the reasons for its continued non-payment of the
Outstanding Sum, the inadequacies were insufficient to lead to the
conclusion that the State’s continued non-payment of the Outstanding Sum
was deliberate and wilful, and clearly an abuse of process of the court (at    [41]). In addition, there was also no connection between
the State’s past conduct in the proceedings below as alleged by PNGSDP, and
the State’s present non-payment of the Outstanding Sum (at    [43]).


Difficulties in enforcement 


7 The court also did not accept PNGSDP’s allegations on the difficulties it
would face in enforcing the costs orders as there was a lack of evidence to
support its allegations. While PNGSDP alleged that the State would utilise
certain provisions within the relevant Papua New Guinea legislation for
enforcement of judgments to stymie its attempts at enforcement, there was
no evidence to support its allegations (at [46]–    [48]).


8 The court observed that there are a number of English authorities which
suggest that the fact that the respondent is likely to face difficulties in
enforcing a judgment debt or costs order could be a compelling reason
(under the English Civil Procedure Rules) for the appeal to be stayed
pending payment of the judgment debt or costs by the appellant. The court
stated that it is uncertain if the English approach will be adopted in
Singapore, given the observation in Roberto that a respondent may
well face difficulties in enforcing the costs order while the appeal is
pending, but that the appellate court should not be used as a means to
enable the respondent to obtain payment of his taxed costs. Since PNGSDP
failed to adduce any evidence of the difficulties it would face in
enforcing the costs orders, it was unnecessary for the court to decide the
point. Nevertheless, the court observed that based on Roberto, the
mere fact that enforcement proceedings would have to be commenced overseas
against a judgment debtor is unlikely to be sufficient to constitute a
special or exceptional reason for a stay to be granted as that would result
in a stay of appeal being granted in almost all cases where the appellant
resides in a foreign country. This would undermine the general principle
that a stay of an appeal pending payment of costs below should only be
granted in special or exceptional circumstances (at [51]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


