




SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


18 November 2019


Case summary



ST Group Co Ltd and others v Sanum Investments Limited and another
appeal

[2019] SGCA 65


Civil Appeals No 113 and 114 of 2018



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith
Prakash):



Outcome: CoA holds that an arbitral award that is made in a seat
of arbitration not chosen by the parties will not be enforced.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· A party who objects to the jurisdiction of the tribunal but does not
participate in the arbitration proceedings at all would still be able to
rely on that objection in setting aside or enforcement proceedings taken
after the issue of the final award (at [92]).


· Once an arbitration is wrongly seated, any award that ensues should not
be recognised and enforced by other jurisdictions because such award had
not been obtained in accordance with the parties’ arbitration agreement (at    [102]).


· It is not necessary for a party who is resisting enforcement of an award
arising out of a wrongly seated arbitration to demonstrate actual prejudice
arising from the wrong seat. It is sufficient that had the arbitration been
correctly seated a different supervisory court would have been available to
the parties for recourse (at [103]).





Background to the appeals


1 The appeals arose out of a court order granting leave for the enforcement
of an arbitration award. Sanum Investments Limited (“Sanum”), a company
incorporated in Macau and carrying on business in the gaming industry, was
the claimant in the arbitration. The respondents to the arbitration
proceedings were ST Group Co, Ltd (“ST Group”), ST Vegas Co Ltd (“ST
Vegas”), ST Vegas Enterprise Ltd (“STV Enterprise”) and Mr Sithat
Xaysoulivong (“Mr Sithat”, collectively “the Lao Parties”). ST Group owns
business interests in various industries in Laos. ST Vegas and STV
Enterprise are affiliated with ST Group. Mr Sithat is the President of ST
Group and STV Enterprise. Sanum obtained an arbitration award in its favour
and obtained leave to enforce the same in Singapore. The High Court judge
(“the Judge”) in the court below denied Sanum leave to enforce the award
against STV Enterprise but affirmed Sanum’s right to enforce the award
against the rest of the Lao Parties.


Facts


2 The dispute between the parties (“the Dispute”) arose out of an
arrangement involving a slot club in Laos (“the Thanaleng Slot Club”). ST
Vegas holds the gaming license to operate the Thanaleng Slot Club. In 2007,
Sanum entered into a “Master Agreement” which contained an obligation to
hand over the Thanaleng Slot Club to Sanum upon the expiration of certain
agreements with third party slot machine operators on 11 October 2011 (“the
Turnover Obligation”). The Master Agreement contained a dispute resolution
clause, which set out a multi-tiered dispute resolution process. The clause
appeared to contemplate the possibility that parties could go to
international arbitration over their dispute, even if they had already
obtained a decision of the Supreme Court of Laos over the same dispute. The
clause ended with the following sentence: “If one of the Parties is
unsatisfied with the results of the above procedure, the Parties shall
mediate and, if necessary, arbitrate such dispute using an internationally
recognized mediation/arbitration company in Macau, SAR PRC”.


3 The Master Agreement stated that the parties would enter into
sub-agreements. Sanum entered into one such sub-agreement in 2007 with STV
Enterprise in relation to two other slot clubs run by STV Enterprise (“the
Participation Agreement”). The Participation Agreement also contained a
multi-tiered dispute resolution clause. That dispute resolution clause
contained a portion that read: “If one of the parties is unsatisfied with
the results of the decision or judgment of the above procedure, the Parties
shall mediate and, if necessary, arbitrate such dispute using an
internationally recognized mediation/arbitration at the Singapore
International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), Singapore and the rules of SIAC
shall be applied”. That clause also stated that the arbitral tribunal
should consist of three arbitrators.


4 Subsequently between 2008 and 2010, Sanum entered into three
sub-agreements relating to the Thanaleng Slot Club. None of these three
sub-agreements contained a dispute resolution clause.


5 According to Sanum, between 2008 and 2011, it invested heavily into the
Thanaleng Slot Club. Two months before the 11 October 2011, Sanum received
an e-mail from ST Group disputing the date of the Turnover Obligation,
claiming that the date was 12 April 2012 instead. Sanum considered this a
breach of contract. It tried to negotiate with ST Group to find a way
forward but the negotiations failed. On 1 March 2012, Sanum initiated local
arbitration proceedings in a Lao dispute resolution centre. While these
proceedings were afoot, ST Group and all its affiliated companies declared
that it considered that all agreements relating to the Thanaleng Slot Club
were terminated and refused to admit any of Sanum’s personnel. Sanum’s
claim in the local arbitration proceedings were dismissed on 21 May 2012.


6 Sanum and the Lao Parties were subsequently engaged in Lao court
proceedings, culminating in a judgment by the apex court of Laos on 4 April
2014, which affirmed the decision of the lower courts in favour of the Lao
Parties.


7 On 15 July 2015, Sanum filed a request a mediation with the Singapore
International Mediation Centre, but the Lao Parties and other related
parties named in the mediation refused to participate. Sanum then commenced
arbitration proceedings under the rules of the Singapore International
Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”). In its notice of arbitration, Sanum stated
that the seat of the arbitration was Macau. The Lao Parties objected to the
SIAC arbitration. The SIAC noted the objections and informed the parties
that it was satisfied that a valid arbitration under the SIAC Rules
existed. After this, the Lao Parties did not participate further in the
arbitration. Relying on the dispute resolution clause in the Participation
Agreement, the SIAC proceeded on the basis that the parties had agreed to a
three-member tribunal, and thus, a three-member tribunal was appointed by
the SIAC (“the Tribunal”). The Tribunal rendered its final award on 22
August 2016 (“the Award”).


8 In the Award, the Tribunal ruled that the Participation Agreement
amplified and supplemented the dispute resolution procedure set out in the
Master Agreement. The Tribunal thus found that it had jurisdiction to
determine the claims made by Sanum against ST Group, Mr Sithat, ST Vegas
and STV Enterprise because they were signatories to the Master Agreement or
the Participation Agreement. The Tribunal also determined that Singapore
was the seat of arbitration because the Participation Agreement
specifically provided for arbitration at SIAC in Singapore. The Tribunal
found that the Master Agreement, the Participation Agreement and the three
sub-agreements in relation to the Thanaleng Slot Club (collectively, “the
Five Agreements”) had to be read together in order to determine the
intentions and agreement of the parties in relation to the Thanaleng Slot
Club. The Tribunal concluded that the Lao Parties had breached the Five
Agreements in so far as they concerned the Thanaleng Slot Club and awarded
Sanum damages amounting to US$200m for breach of contract, as well as
further sums for legal expenses, costs of the arbitration and interest.


9 Shortly after the Award was issued, on 7 September 2016, Sanum obtained
leave to enforce the Award in Singapore against the Lao Parties. This led
to a series of court applications, which culminated in the present appeals.
Sanum appealed against the Judge’s decision to deny leave to enforce the
Award against STV Enterprise. ST Group, ST Vegas and Mr Sithat appealed
against the Judge’s decision to allow Sanum to enforce the Award against
them. In its judgment, the Court of Appeal dealt with six issues.


The Court of Appeal’s decision


(1) 
Under which agreement did the Dispute Arise?





10 The Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that the Dispute only involved
a breach of the Master Agreement and did not arise under any other of the
Five Agreements. The Court of Appeal rejected Sanum’s argument that the
Dispute also arose out of the Participation Agreement. The alleged breach
of the Turnover Obligation was the crux of the Dispute, and the Turnover
Obligation involved the Thanaleng Slot Club. Yet, there was no express
mention of the Thanaleng Slot Club in the Participation Agreement. STV
Enterprise, the counter party to the Participation Agreement, did not own
and manage Thanaleng Slot Club. ST Vegas, who held the relevant gaming
licenses to the Thanaleng Slot Club, was not a party to the Participation
Agreement, and thus it would not make sense to incorporate obligations
relating to the Thanaleng Slot Club into the Participation Agreement. If it
were truly the parties’ intentions that the Turnover Obligation would be
incorporated into the Participation Agreement, they would have ensured that
this was spelt out plainly in the Participation Agreement. At the time when
the Dispute arose, Sanum did not assert that the Participation Agreement
was breached and it was only years later in the Notice of Arbitration in
September 2015 that Sanum first mentioned the Participation Agreement in
the context of the Dispute. In the circumstances, the arbitration was
founded only on the dispute resolution clause contained within the Master
Agreement and it was critical to determine who the parties to the Master
Agreement were (at [50], [51],    [52] and [53]).


(2) 
Who were the parties to the Master Agreement?





11 The Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that ST Group, ST Vegas and Mr
Sithat were parties to the Master Agreement (and thus bound by the dispute
resolution clause contained within) but that STV Enterprise was not a party
to the Master Agreement. The portion containing the signatures of the
parties to the Master Agreement contained four signatures from Mr Sithat.
Once on behalf of ST Group, twice on behalf of ST Vegas and once under a
section labelled “Sithat Xaysoulivong, as an individual”. The Master
Agreement contemplated that individuals could be parties to the Master
Agreement. ST Group, ST Vegas and Mr Sithat were also expressly listed as
parties to the contract in the first portion of the Master Agreement. STV
Enterprise was not listed as a party to the contract in the first portion
of the Master Agreement and there was no signature appended on behalf of
STV Enterprise (at [56], [59] and    [60]).


12 Since STV Enterprise was not bound by the dispute resolution clause
contained in the Master Agreement, it was not bound by the arbitration
founded on that clause. As such, the Court of Appeal found that the Judge
was right to deny Sanum leave to enforce the Award against STV Enterprise
and Sanum’s appeal was dismissed (at [61]).


(3) 


Was the dispute resolution clause in the Master Agreement a valid
arbitration clause to begin with?







13 The Court of Appeal noted that there was a potential issue with the
validity of a multi-tiered dispute resolution clause such as the one in the
Master Agreement. In effect, the clause would allow the parties to appeal
against concluded national court proceedings using an arbitral tribunal
appointed by the parties. However, the Court of Appeal ultimately declined
to determine the appeal on the basis of this issue. The validity of the
dispute resolution clause had to be determined with reference to its
governing law. In this case, the governing law was Lao law. Unfortunately,
there was no expert opinion on Lao law in respect of this specific issue.
The onus was on the Lao Parties to prove that the clause was invalid under
Lao law but they had not done so. The Court of Appeal declined to presume
that Lao law was similar to Singapore law and analyse the dispute
resolution clause on the basis of Singapore arbitration law principles.
This would be changing the nature of the arguments at too late a stage: the
point on validity was not raised by the Lao Parties during the arbitration
nor in the court below. This point was also not raised by the Lao Parties
on appeal: It was the court that brought up this issue. It would be
unsatisfactory to decide a case on the basis of an assumption as to content
of a foreign law when doing so might mean deciding it in favour of the
party with the burden of proof who knew or should have known what it had to
prove and did not do so (at [69], [70],[71], [72], [73] and    [74]).


(4) 

Were the correct seat and composition of the Tribunal chosen?



14 The Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that the proper interpretation
of the dispute resolution clause was that Macau was to be the seat of
arbitration. This was the most natural interpretation of the wording in the
dispute resolution clause and also accorded with what the parties intended,
as evidenced from the record of the arbitration hearings (at[79], [80], [81],[82], [83], [84] and    [85]).


15 The Court of Appeal also agreed with the Judge that a sole arbitrator
should have been appointed. The dispute resolution clause in the Master
Agreement was completely silent on the composition of the arbitral
tribunal. Under the applicable SIAC rules, the default position in such a
scenario would be the appointment of a sole arbitrator. Although the
Registrar of the SIAC had the discretion to appoint three arbitrators
instead, the three arbitrators were not appointed pursuant to such
discretion. Instead, the appointment of three arbitrators was based on the
mistaken premise that the Participation Agreement was applicable to the
dispute submitted (at [87], [88] and     [89]).


(5) 


Did any waiver or estoppel arise in relation to seat and
composition?




16 The Court of Appeal found that there was no waiver or estoppel in
relation to the erroneous seat and composition of the Tribunal. The Court
of Appeal held that a party who objected to the jurisdiction of the
tribunal but did not participate in the arbitration proceedings at all
would still be able to rely on that objection in setting aside or
enforcement proceedings taken after the issue of the final award (at    [92]).


(6) 


What effect do mistakes as to seat and composition of panel have?




17 The Court of Appeal held that once an arbitration is wrongly seated, in
the absence of waiver of the wrong seat, any award that ensues should not
be recognised and enforced by other jurisdictions because such award had
not been obtained in accordance with the parties’ arbitration agreement.
The choice of seat was one of the most important matters for parties to
consider when negotiating an arbitration agreement. This choice resulted in
a number of significant legal consequences. The law of the seat governed a
number of important matters relating to arbitration, for example, the
judicial power to appoint and remove arbitrator or the validity and
finality of the award resulting from the arbitral proceedings. The choice
of the seat also represented a choice of forum for remedies. The fact that
the erroneously chosen seat and the correct seat were, like in the case of
Singapore and Macau, both jurisdictions that applied the UNCITRAL Model Law
on International Commercial Arbitration (“the Model Law”) did not lessen
the significance of the choice of seat. This was because in adopting the
Model Law, each jurisdiction may augment or reduce the grounds for setting
aside in such jurisdiction. Additionally, different national courts
approach arbitration-related applications in different ways (at[96], [97], [98],    [99], [100] and [102]).


18 The Court of Appeal held that it was not necessary for a party who is
resisting enforcement of an award arising out of a wrongly seated
arbitration to demonstrate actual prejudice arising from the wrong seat. It
was sufficient that had the arbitration been correctly seated a different
supervisory court would have been the one to which the parties would have
had recourse in case of need. Since the choice made by the parties was to
seat the arbitration under the Master Agreement in Macau, the arbitration
was wrongly seated. The Court of Appeal thus allowed ST Group, ST Vegas and
Mr Sithat’s appeal and refused leave to Sanum to enforce the Award against
these three parties (at [103] and [104]).


19 The Court of Appeal declined to deal with the effect of an error in the
composition of the Tribunal because the finding in relation to the effect
of a wrong choice of seat disposed of ST Group, ST Vegas and Mr Sithat’s
appeal and it was also difficult in this case to disentangle the effect of
the wrong composition of the Tribunal from the adverse impact of the wrong
choice of seat (at [108])



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


