




SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


13 November 2019


Case summary


BPH v Public Prosecutor and another appeal
[2019] SGCA 64


Criminal Appeals No 29 of 2018 and No 19 of 2019


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Tay Yong
Kwang)



Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses the appellants’ appeals against
sentence, and affirms that a single sentencing framework applies to all
forms of sexual assault by penetration set out in s 376 of the Penal Code.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


· Court of Appeal affirms that the sentencing framework set out in its
earlier decision in Pram Nair v Public Prosecutor [2017] 2 SLR
1015 (“Pram Nair”) applies to all permutations of sexual
penetration set out in s 376 of the Penal Code


· Court of Appeal concludes that there is no hierarchy of severity for the
various permutations of sexual penetration in s 376 of the Penal Code


Background to the appeals


1 This judgment contains the Court of Appeal’s grounds of decision for two
appeals, the first against the decision of the High Court inPublic Prosecutor v BPH (Criminal Case No 90 of 2017) (“BPH”), and the second against the decision of the High Court in    Public Prosecutor v BVZ [2019] SGHC 83 (“BVZ”).


2 Both appeals were heard on the same day on 4 July 2019. BPH was
heard in the morning, and BVZ in the afternoon. Both appeals were
dismissed that same day with brief oral grounds rendered.


3 Although the facts of the appeals were unrelated, they raised the same
related questions of principle: (1) whether the Pram Nair
sentencing framework applies to all permutations of sexual penetration in s
376 of the Penal code; and (2) whether there is a hierarchy of severity for
the various permutations of sexual penetration in s 376 of the Penal Code.
The Court of Appeal has therefore decided to issue joint grounds of
decision for both appeals.


Facts and decision below in BPH


4 BPH is a 65-year-old male Singaporean. He is the maternal grandfather of
the victim, who was 11 years old at the material time. BPH pleaded guilty
to, and was convicted of, committing two sexual offences against his
grandson. The first was digital-anal penetration punishable under s 376 of
the Penal Code. The second was outrage of modesty for fondling his
grandson’s penis contrary to s 354 of the Penal Code. Three other charges
of a similar nature were taken into consideration for the purposes of
sentencing.


5 The High Court Judge (“the Judge in BPH”) imposed a sentence of
ten years’ imprisonment for the sexual penetration offence, and two years’
imprisonment for the outrage of modesty offence, and ordered both to run
consecutively yielding an aggregate sentence of 12 year’s imprisonment. The
Judge in BPH pertinently noted in his sentencing remarks that he
considered digital-anal penetration to be less severe than digital-vaginal
penetration, which was the type of sexual penetration addressed in    Pram Nair itself, and therefore adjusted the sentence for the
sexual penetration offence downwards accordingly.


Facts and decision below in BVZ


6 The appellant in BVZ pleaded guilty to, and was convicted of,
four offences. Two were for the penile-oral penetration of a 14 year old
girl, ie, fellatio, contrary to s 376 of the Penal Code. One was
for causing hurt by means of poison contrary to s 328 of the Penal Code.
The last was for outrage of modesty of a 14 year old girl contrary to s 354
of the Penal Code. Six other charges were taken into consideration for the
purposes of sentencing.


7 The High Court Judge (“the Judge in BVZ”) ordered a sentence of
ten years’ imprisonment and eight strokes of the cane for each of the two
sexual penetration charges; a sentence of three years’ imprisonment for the
s 328 offence, and ten months’ imprisonment for the outrage of modesty
offence. She ordered the sentences for the two sexual penetration offences
to run consecutively, yielding an aggregate sentence of 20 years’
imprisonment and 16 strokes of the cane. Pertinently, the Judge in    BVZ took the view that the Pram Nair framework, although
originally developed in the context of digital-vaginal penetration, also
applied to the offences of fellatio in BVZ.


The Court of Appeal’s decision 


Decision on the sentencing framework


8 The Court of Appeal ruled that the Pram Nair sentencing
framework applies to all forms of sexual penetration under s 376 of the
Penal Code, notwithstanding that Pram Nair itself was a case
concerning only digital-vaginal penetration: at [55].


9 There were three reasons for this view. First, there was a multitude of
permutations for the offence of sexual penetration under s 376 which made
benchmark sentences for each permutation impractical:    at [56] to [58].  Second, the text of s 376 did not
indicate in any way that the types of sexual assault by penetration were to
be ranked in terms of severity: at [59]. Third, the
divergence in the authorities on s 376 revealed an absence of unanimity of
views as to whether one form of sexual penetration was inherently more
serious or more detestable than another: at [60]. 


10 There was reasonable consensus, however, that rape was the gravest of
all sexual penetration offences. Thus, the offence of rape continued to be
governed by the framework specifically developed for it inNg Kean Meng Terence v Public Prosecutor [2017] 2 SLR 449:    at [62]. 


Decisions on sentence in the appeals


BPH


11 The Court of Appeal held that the Judge was right to find that at least
two offence-specific factors applied here: (1) the abuse of trust by a
maternal grandfather, and (2) the vulnerability of the young victim:    at [64]. The case therefore fell within at least the
middle of Band 2 of the Pram Nair framework. The outrage of
modesty offence, as well, fell within Band 2 of the sentencing framework
for that offence: at [72]. The aggregate sentence ordered
below was therefore, if anything, on the lenient side. BPH’s appeal against
sentence was therefore dismissed: at [89].


BVZ


12 The Court of Appeal observed that the individual sentences ordered for
the sexual penetration offences were also rather lenient towards BVZ. There
were five aggravating factors which applied in this case: (1) the young age
of the victim; (2) the fact that BVZ abused his position of trust as a
quasi-parental figure towards the victim; (3) the humiliating nature of the
acts; (4) the premeditation of the offences and (5) the use of force and
the threat of using more force on the victim: at    [90] to [96]. In addition, the Judge was right to order
the sentences for the two sexual penetration offences to run consecutively:    at [98]. The aggregate sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment
could therefore hardly be described as manifestly excessive. BVZ’s appeal
was thus dismissed: at [99].


Conclusions on questions of law


13 The Court of Appeal concluded its analysis by setting out the following
conclusions on the questions of law in the appeals (at [100]):


(a) the Pram Nair sentencing framework applies to all permutations
of sexual penetration in s 376 of the Penal Code; and


(b) there is no hierarchy of severity for the various permutations of
sexual penetration in s 376 of the Penal Code.



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


