

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


11 November 2019


Case summary




Jurong Primewide Pte Ltd v Crescendas Bionics Pte Ltd and another
appeal



[2019] SGCA 63



Civil Appeals Nos 19 and 20 of 2019



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Quentin Loh):



Outcome: The Court of Appeal allows an appeal by a contractor against the
High Court’s decision to grant a property developer a refund for alleged
double-payments, noting that such claims must be specifically pleaded. The
Court of Appeal also partially allows the developer’s appeal, and considers
what should be taken into account in calculating “reasonable time” for
completion.


Introduction


1 Crescendas Bionics Pte Ltd (“Crescendas”), a property developer, had
engaged Jurong Primewide Pte Ltd (“Jurong Primewide”), a contractor, to
build the Biopolis 3 Project. Several disputes occurred between the
parties. Crescendas alleged that the $12.3m provided for the preliminaries
under the contract was a tentative figure subject to further negotiations.
Conversely, Jurong Primewide asserted the $12.3m was a fixed sum.


2 Although the Project was eventually completed, it had exceeded the
contractually stipulated time of 18 months for Jurong Primewide to complete
the Project. The parties brought suit against each other. Crescendas
claimed that Jurong Primewide was responsible for the entirety of the delay
and liable for liquidated damages. Conversely, Jurong Primewide asserted
that it was not responsible for any of the delays because Crescendas had
caused acts of prevention.


 


The High Court’s decision


3 The High Court decided largely in favour of Jurong Primewide, holding
that the $12.3m for preliminaries was a fixed sum. However, if there were
any double payments by Crescendas to Jurong Primewide for the same
preliminaries done by the trade contractors, these had to be refunded to
Crescendas (“the Refund Ruling”).


4 The High Court also considered that Crescendas was liable for 173 days of
delay. Given that Crescendas had engaged in acts of prevention, the absence
of an extension of time clause in the contract meant that time for
completion had been set at large. In this regard, the High Court was of the
view that the “reasonable time” for Jurong Primewide to complete the
Project was the initially forecasted 18 months, plus the 173 days of delay
caused by Crescendas, plus an additional 25 days that the parties had not
included in the August 2008 Master Programme for the capping beams work.


 


The Court of Appeal’s decision


5 The Court of Appeal allowed Jurong Primewide’s appeal against the Refund
Ruling. Crescendas had not specifically pleaded a claim for a refund of
double payments, nor had it ascertained or pleaded the value of the alleged
overlapping preliminaries works after all this time. The Court of Appeal
remarked that it was important in building and construction cases for such
averments to be specifically pleaded and with sufficient particulars so
that the opposing party knows the case it has to meet (at    [9]).


6 The Court of Appeal dismissed the majority of Crescendas’ appeal save for
a rectification error and the issue of the reasonable time given to Jurong
Primewide as a result of the capping beams work (at [12]–    [13]).


7 The Court of Appeal noted that although Jurong Primewide would have been
aware of the need for the capping beams work, it had not included an
itemised activity and time for the capping beams work in its July 2008 and
August 2008 Master Programmes. This was only remedied in its Revised Master
Programme in April 2009. Whilst Jurong Primewide may have been mistaken in
its assessment, this was an error that lay at their doorstep and was not a
fault or act of prevention that could be attributed to Crescendas. Jurong
Primewide should therefore not be given the benefit of the additional 25
days for the capping beams work in computing what should be a reasonable
time for Project completion (at [17]–[19]
).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


