

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


7 November 2019


Case summary




TMT Asia Limited v BHP Billiton Marketing AG (Singapore Branch) and
another



[2019] SGCA 60



Civil Appeal No 200 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JA):



Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against High Court’s decision to
strike out the appellant’s Statement of Claim on grounds of abuse of
process.


Background


1 The appellant, TMT Asia Limited (“TMTA”), was the plaintiff in the main
suit, and the respondents, which were companies in the BHP Billiton Group
(collectively, “BHPM”), were the defendants. BHPM applied to strike out
TMTA’s claim on the grounds that continued prosecution of the claim would
be an abuse of process in light of BHPM’s open offer (“the Offer”) to
settle TMTA’s claim in full. At the hearing of BHPM’s striking out
application, the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) directed that pursuant to O
14 r 12 and/or O 33 r 2 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed)
(“ROC”), a preliminary point or issue be decided first. That preliminary
point mirrored the issue in the striking out application: ie,
whether TMTA was entitled to continue with the action in light of the
settlement offer. The Judge answered the issue in the negative and struck
out TMTA’s claim. TMTA appealed.


The material facts


2 The appellant, TMTA, is a shipping company. The respondents, BHPM, are
part of the BHP Billiton Group, a producer of iron ore. The parties were
involved in trading forward freight agreements (“FFAs”) with prices which
were based on a certain index. TMTA alleged that BHPM manipulated freight
prices by procuring contracts for freight in such quantities as to
artificially inflate the freight rates reported on the index, in breach of
s 208(a) of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap 289, 2006 Rev Ed)
(“SFA”), which prohibited manipulation of the price of a “futures contract”
in a “futures market”. BHPM denied the claim.


3 TMTA commenced suit in February 2013 in the District Court, but the suit
was transferred to the High Court on BHPM’s application on grounds that it
raised issues of public interest pertaining to the interpretation of s 208(    a) of the SFA.


4 In August 2013, BHPM applied to strike out TMTA’s claim, but this first
striking out application was ultimately dismissed on appeal to the High
Court.


5 Thereafter, BHPM extended an Offer to settle TMTA’s claim in full. TMTA
did not accept the Offer.


6 In March 2016, BHPM applied a second time to strike out TMTA’s claim,
this time on the basis that continued prosecution of TMTA’s claim would be
an abuse of process in light of the Offer to settle the claim in full. This
second striking out application was heard by an assistant registrar (“the
AR”), who declined to strike out TMTA’s claim, reasoning in part that the
proceedings raised issues of public importance relating to the
interpretation of s 208(a) of the SFA. BHPM did not appeal.


7 In June 2018, BHPM applied for the third time to strike out TMTA’s claim
under O 18 r 19 of the ROC. The Judge reframed the issue as a preliminary
point to be decided under O 14 r 12 and/or O 33 r 2 as follows: Whether the
continuance of the action was an abuse of the process of the court in the
light of the Offer.


8 First, the Judge held that the AR’s decision in the second striking out
application (that the claim should not be struck out) did not give rise to
any issue estoppel. He considered that the AR’s decision was not final
conclusive in relation to the preliminary point before him because it was
made in respect of an application to strike out under O 18 r 19 of the ROC,
whereas the preliminary issue before him was to be determined under O 14 r
12 and/or O 33 r 2, which involved a different threshold. The Judge noted
that s 208(a) of the SFA had since been amended substantially so
that the significance of the action as a test case for the interpretation
of that section was diminished, but observed that it would remain relevant
to causes of action that arose before the amendments came into operation.


9 Second, the Judge held that the continuance of TMTA’s claim would be an
abuse of process because it would serve no useful purpose in light of the
Offer, under which TMTA would receive all the reliefs it was seeking in its
claim. The Judge struck out the claim accordingly.


The court’s decision 


10 The Court of Appeal dismissed TMTA’s appeal and affirmed the Judge’s
decision to strike out the claim, albeit on different grounds.


11 The Court set out the two issues which fell for determination: First,
whether the abuse of process issue was res judicata as a result of
the AR’s decision (“the res judicata issue”). Second, whether
TMTA’s continuation of its action was an abuse of the court’s process in
light of the Offer (“the abuse of process issue”) (at [22]
).


12 The Court disagreed with the Judge’s finding on the issue of whether the
AR’s decision was final and conclusive. The Court held that it was,
reasoning that there was no difference in the threshold applicable for a
finding of abuse of process under O 18 r 19 of the ROC and a preliminary
determination of that same issue made pursuant to O 14 r 12 and/or O 33 r
2. The Court further opined that the Judge ought not to have invited BHPM
to file an application under O 14 r 12 and/or O 33 r 2 and should have
dealt with BHPM’s application under O 18 r 19 instead (at    [25]).


13 Although the AR’s decision was final and conclusive, the Court held that
no issue estoppel arose because there was no identity of subject matter.
The key difference between the situations that existed at the time of the
second striking out application (before the AR) and the third striking out
application (before the Judge) was the fact that amendments were made to
the SFA some seven months after the AR’s decision. With these amendments, s
208 of the SFA was repealed and replaced by s 201B, thereby removing the
terms “futures contract” and “futures market” and replacing them with
differently-defined terms. The effect of these amendments was that the
issues of interpretation of s 208(a) were no longer relevant to
causes of action arising after the amendments came into operation, thereby
diminishing the public importance of the questions raised in TMTA’s claim.
Because the facts and circumstances forming the backdrop to the abuse of
process issue were changed materially by the SFA amendments, it could not
be said that the subject matter of the dispute before the AR was identical
to that which was before the Judge, and the abuse of process issue was
therefore not res judicata (at [28] and    [30]).


14 On the abuse of process issue, the Court agreed entirely with the Judge
that there was no defect in the Offer which would justify TMTA’s refusal to
accept it (at [31]). After the Offer was made, it was
clear that the primary benefit of proceeding to trial could no longer be
that of TMTA obtaining compensatory relief, since that relief could be
obtained by TMTA simply accepting the Offer. It became incumbent on TMTA to
point to other reasons why it should be allowed to continue with its action
despite the Offer (at [35]).


15 The Court rejected TMTA’s submission that the questions raised in the
action would still be of public interest in that the court’s interpretation
of the terms “futures contract” and “futures market” might nonetheless be
of guidance in the interpretation of the new statutory terms. The issues
raised in TMTA’s claim did not involve a comparison of the pre- and
post-amendment statutory regimes, and so any interpretation of the terms of
the pre-amendment SFA would therefore be unlikely to be authoritative or of
assistance to cases subject to the post-amendment regime (at    [34]).


16 The Court also rejected TMTA’s argument that a trial was necessary for
it to obtain vindicatory relief since the Offer was made without any
admission as to liability (at [36]). The Court observed
that seeking vindicatory relief in the form of a formal finding of
liability or a declaration of non-liability, in the face of an open offer
to agree to all reliefs sought in an action without any admission of
liability, may be justified in only very special circumstances. One example
might be a case involving a claim for damages resulting from a very grave
defamation, where the defendant pleads justification but subsequently makes
an offer to pay damages while refusing to withdraw the pleaded
justification. In such a situation, if the plaintiff could show that he may
suffer serious practical consequences (eg, if the defamation would
affect his professional status), it is arguable that the plaintiff should
be allowed to continue with the action in order to vindicate his reputation
completely at trial. However, TMTA’s action did not come within this sort
of very special circumstances as it was essentially a commercial claim (at    [37]).


17 For these reasons, the Court dismissed TMTA’s appeal, and upheld the
Judge’s decision to strike out TMTA’s claim (at [38]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


