

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


6 November 2019


Case summary


Tan Liang Joo John v Attorney-General 
[2019] SGHC 263


Originating Summons No 911 of 2019



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Decision of the High Court (Aedit Abdullah J):


Outcome:

The High Court dismisses the applicant’s application for a declaration
that he is not disqualified from standing for election as a Member of
Parliament under Art 45(1)(e) of the


Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1999 Reprint) (“the
Constitution”).




Facts


1 The applicant – Mr Tan Liang Joo John – was found guilty by Woo Bih Li J
of contempt by scandalising the court (referred to as “criminal contempt”)
under s 3(1)(a) of the Administration of Justice (Protection) Act
(No 19 of 2016 (“AJPA”) in AG v Wham Kwok Han Jolovan [2018] SGHC
222. A sentence of a $5,000 fine, with 1 weeks’ imprisonment in default,
was imposed on him in AG v Wham Kwok Han Jolovan [2019] SGHC 111
(“Jolovan Wham (Sentencing)”).


2 The applicant sought a declaration that he is not disqualified from
standing for election as a Member of Parliament under Art 45(1)(e)
of the Constitution, which states:


45.
—(1) Subject to this Article, a person shall not be qualified to be a
Member of Parliament who —


...


(e) has been convicted of an offence by a court of law in
Singapore or Malaysia and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less
than one year or to a fine of not less than $2,000 and has not received a
free pardon:


Provided that where the conviction is by a court of law in Malaysia, the
person shall not be so disqualified unless the offence is also one which,
had it been committed in Singapore, would have been punishable by a court
of law in Singapore;


3 The applicant contended that the term “offence” in Art 45(1)(e)
does not extend to quasi-criminal offences such as criminal contempt.
Alternatively, the government is bound by the position taken in 1988 by the
then Returning Officer, Mr Ong Kok Min (“the RO”). The RO had informed the
Straits Times that the nomination paper of one Mr Jufrie Mahmood, who had
earlier been fined $3,000 for contempt of court, would not be rejected as
the offence was not criminal in nature. The applicant also argued that Art
9 and Art 12 of the Constitution were violated in this case.


Decision of the High Court






The meaning of the term “offence” in Art 45(1)(e) of the Constitution

4 The term “offence” in Art 45(1)(e) of the Constitution covers
quasi-criminal offences such as criminal contempt.


5 The Court of Appeal in Tan Cheng Bock v AG [2017] 2 SLR 850 laid
down a three step approach to constitutional interpretation:


a. First, ascertain possible interpretations of the provision, having
regard to the text of the provision as well as the context of the provision
within the written law as a whole.


b. Second, ascertain the legislative purpose of the statute.


c. Third, compare possible interpretations of the text against the purpose
of the statute. An interpretation which furthers the purpose of the written
text is preferred to one which does not.


6 Here, the term “offence” is broad enough to cover contempt of court.
There is nothing in the context to show that the term should be limited to
criminal offences and not quasi-criminal offences:


a. First, the fact that Art 45(1)(e) references a free pardon and
conviction does not mean that only criminal offences are covered by the
term “offence”. Nothing in Art 22P of the Constitution curtails the
constitutional power of the President to pardon for offences, including
criminal contempt (at [25]–[33]).


b. Second, the fact that the grounds for disqualification in Art 45 might
overlap does not mean that they should be construed as being entirely
distinct and segregated to avoid any tautology or needless duplication (at    [34]–[35]).


c. Third, the rest of the Constitution contains references to offences
which must be taken to include criminal contempt, such as Art 35(8) (at    [36]).


d. Fourth, the fact that other statutes use the term “offence” to mean
criminal offences does not control its meaning in the Constitution, since
what is in issue here is whether term extends to a quasi-criminal matter
(at [37]).


e. Fifth, no ambiguity or risk of disqualification for minor matters arise
from interpreting the term “offence” to include criminal contempt (at    [38]–[40]).


f. Sixth, there is no level of ambiguity in Art 45(1)(e) that
would attract a strict construction on the disqualification criteria
therein (at [41]–[44]).


7 A consideration of the purpose of Art 45(1)(e) does not assist
in respect of the interpretation of the term “offence”. Based on the text
of the provision and the context in which it is found in the Constitution,
the interpretation to be given to the term extends to cover quasi-criminal
offences such as criminal contempt (at [45]–[51]).

The prior example of Mr Jufrie Mahmood

8 There were several difficulties with relying on the treatment of Mr
Jufrie Mahmood. The newspaper record only records what was told to the
newspaper by the RO without details on his reasoning. No official record
was tendered, which would provide some assurance against inaccuracies in
reporting. Since the court was concerned with a legal question, the legal
basis underlying the RO’s decision had to be laid bare (at    [54]).


9 Even if the RO’s position was accurately reported, this does not mean
that the government remains bound by the position some 31 years later. The
RO’s interpretation cannot be binding on the courts, which are tasked under
the Constitution to interpret the law (at [56]).


10 The question is whether the government is bound by the stance taken by
the RO in 1988, such as by estoppel. Here, the newspaper report would not
be sufficient indication of a position being taken on the interpretation of
Art 45(1)(e) and forming the basis of a representation.
Detrimental reliance was also not made out as it is clear from the position
taken by the applicant in Jolovan Wham (Sentencing) that he
believed he would be disqualified if sentenced to a fine greater than
$2,000 (at [57]–[58]).


11 It is also doubtful that estoppel is available as a remedy in the
present case. To allow the applicant to invoke the doctrine of estoppel
would be to effectively circumvent the disqualification criteria set out in
Art 45(1)(e) and go against the grain of the Parliamentary
Elections Act (Cap 218, 2011 Rev Ed), which allows the election of a
candidate as a Member of Parliament to be declared void for being
disqualified from election. These suggest that the disqualification
criteria in Art 45(1)(e) cannot be derogated from by the RO or the
government (at [59]).


12 In the alternative, if the doctrine of estoppel in judicial review were
subsumed under the doctrine of legitimate expectation, the applicant would
still not succeed in his application as he did not satisfy the requirements
set out in Chiu Teng @ Kallang Pte Ltd v Singapore Land Authority 
[2014] 1 SLR 1047 (at [61]–[65]).

Other arguments

13 The applicant argued that the Court of Appeal in    Vellama d/o Marie Muthu v AG [2013] 4 SLR 1 established the right
to vote, which would imply a corresponding right to stand for election.
However, Vellama did not in fact recognise a right to vote in
elections as a fundamental right as it was concerned with whether the Prime
Minister had a duty to call a by-election to fill casual vacancies of
elected Members of Parliament. Further, as the right to stand for election
as a Member of Parliament is not part of the enumerated fundamental rights
in Part IV of the Constitution, it is not subject to the generous
interpretation afforded to fundamental liberties in    Ong Ah Chuan v PP [1979–1980] SLR(R) 710 (at [66]
).


14 Article 9 and Article 12 of the Constitution are not violated. The term
“life” in Art 9 is concerned with punishment and is not interpreted in a
very broad sense. Based on the respondent’s arguments, the fact that it
adopts a different position from the RO also does not amount to deliberate
and arbitrary discrimination against the applicant such as to violate Art
12 (at [67]–[68]).

Conclusion

15 For the above reasons, the application was dismissed.


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


