

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


25 October 2019


Case summary


Wham Kwok Han Jolovan v Public Prosecutor 
[2019] SGHC 251



Magistrate’s Appeal 9041 of 2019


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the High Court (delivered by Justice Chua Lee Ming):



Outcome: The High Court dismisses the appeal against conviction and
sentence of Wham Kwok Han Jolovan.


Facts


1 The appellant claimed trial to and was convicted of two charges. The
first charge was under the Public Order Act (Cap 257A, 2012 Rev Ed)
(“POA”), for organising a public assembly without a permit, to publicise
the cause of “civil disobedience and democracy in social change”. The
appellant had organised a public event entitled “Civil Disobedience and
Social Movements”. A permit was required for the event because one of the
speakers, Joshua Wong Chi-Fung (“Wong”), was not a Singapore citizen. The
Police had advised the appellant to apply for a permit but he did not do
so.


2 The second charge was for refusing to sign an investigation statement
recorded from the appellant under the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012
Rev Ed) (“CPC”), which was an offence under the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008
Rev Ed).


3 The District Judge convicted the appellant of both charges after the
trial. The appellant was sentenced to a fine of $2,000 (in default, ten
days’ imprisonment) for the first charge and a fine of $1,200 (in default,
six days’ imprisonment) for the second charge.


4 The appellant appealed against his conviction and sentence.


Decision of the High Court


5 The High Court dismissed the appellant’s appeal against conviction and
sentence.


6 The appellant first argued that the provision under the POA that
prohibited him from holding a public assembly without a permit, contravened
Article 14 of the Constitution of Singapore which protects the right of all
Singapore citizens to “assemble peaceably and without arms”.


7 Under the POA, it is an offence to organise a public assembly without a
permit, where a permit is required. The authority to grant a permit is
vested in the Commissioner of Police, who may refuse to grant a permit on
any of the specified grounds in the POA. Should the Commissioner refuse an
applicant’s permit application, the applicant may appeal the decision to
the Minister.


8 The appellant argued that the permit requirement contravenes Article 14
of the Constitution because an event organiser who chooses to go ahead with
the event after his application for a permit has been rejected, would be
guilty of the offence under the POA even if the refusal to grant a permit
is subsequently challenged and found to be invalid. The court rejected this
argument, as the argument incorrectly assumed that an applicant who
disagrees with the Commissioner’s decision is entitled to disregard and
defy it, instead of challenging the decision in court. It is for the court
alone to decide whether the Commissioner’s decision was invalid (at    [25]).


9 The appellant further argued that the permit requirement under the POA
contravenes Article 14 of the Constitution because there is no practical
remedy if the Commissioner acting in bad faith refuses to grant a permit.
The appellant argued that even if the Commissioner’s decision is
successfully challenged in court, the court can only quash the decision.
The court cannot issue the permit or direct the Commissioner (or Minister)
to issue the permit. Therefore, if the Commissioner and Minister continues
to act in bad faith after the court quashes the initial refusal, the
applicant would never be able to lawfully organise the public assembly. The
court rejected this argument. The assumption that the Commissioner and
Minister may act in bad faith and disregard the court’s decision was
speculative and unsubstantiated. The appellant’s argument would mean that
any law that requires a permit to carry out an activity may be struck down
simply by arguing that the permit may be refused in bad faith (at    [28]). The court was of the view that it should
be presumed that the Commissioner and Minister will, consistent with the
rule of law, act in accordance with the law (at [29]).    


10 The court then turned to consider whether the appellant’s event was an
“assembly” within the POA’s definition. The question turned on whether the
event advocated a cause, the cause being the use of civil disobedience to
bring about social change. Advocating the method by which a substantive end
is to be achieved is as much a “cause” as the substantive end itself (at    [38]).There was no requirement that the event publicises
only a single cause; an event publicising multiple causes would also
constitute an assembly (at [39]). Discussions could also
publicise a cause, if it defends or advocates a principle, aim or movement
to which one is committed (at [40]).


11 The court was satisfied that the Prosecution had proved that the
appellant’s event publicised a cause by advocating the use of civil
disobedience to bring about social change. The description of the event
showed that the talk was about the role that civil disobedience had to play
in bringing about change, and it was not merely a neutral discussion. One
of the speakers at the event, Wong, was a known Hong Kong activist who
advocated the use of civil disobedience. In inviting Wong to speak, the
appellant clearly intended or expected his speech to include advocating the
use of civil disobedience to bring about social change. During the event,
Wong told the audience about how civil disobedience had been used in Hong
Kong and asked the audience to think about using civil disobedience in
Singapore. This amounted to advocating the use of civil disobedience. The
appellant himself had asked the audience – how do Singapore citizens get
from what he described as “picnic”-type activism to the “very
confrontational civil disobedience types of actions”. In essence, he
advocated that Singapore citizens should move towards civil disobedience.
The court was thus satisfied that the appellant was correctly convicted of
the first charge (at [43]–[49]).


12 As for the second charge, the appellant argued that he committed no
offence because he did not have a legal obligation to sign his statement
(which he had confirmed to be true and correct). The court rejected this
argument. The requirement under the CPC for the police officer to obtain
the statement-giver’s signature, is to ensure the accuracy and reliability
of the statement. This would be meaningless if the police officer does not
have the concurrent power to require the statement-giver to sign his
statement. Being required to sign his statement does not mean that the
statement-giver has to sign the statement where he disagrees with its
contents. He can amend his statement before signing it (at    [63]).


13 The court also rejected the appellant’s argument that requiring him to
sign an incriminatory statement violated his privilege against
self-incrimination as protected under the CPC. The privilege is against
making a self-incriminatory statement; there is no privilege against
signing a self-incriminatory statement that a person has willingly chosen
to make (at [64]).


14 The court dismissed the appeals against sentence in respect of both
charges, as they were not manifestly excessive, taking into account the
facts of the appellant’s case and the relevant case precedents (at    [55] and [71]).






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


