
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
4 September 2019 
Case summary
Singapore Medical Council v BXR [2019] SGHC 205 
Originating Summons No 14 of 2018 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: High Court dismisses the Singapore Medical Council’s appeal against an adverse costs order imposed on it by the Disciplinary Tribunal
 


In Singapore Medical Council v Dr R [2018] SMCDT 7, the Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) acquitted the respondent, Dr BXR, of all the charges that were brought against him. Significantly, the DT ordered costs against the Singapore Medical Council (“SMC”). This was the SMC’s appeal solely against the DT’s decision on costs.
Background facts 


The respondent was a specialist in plastic surgery. Between 5 January 2008 and 24 August 2013, he treated one Ms P (“the Patient”) for her condition of enlarged parotid glands with the use of botulinum toxin (or “botox”) injections. The treatment was a success (at [3]). 
 


On 7 April 2014, the Patient filed a complaint against the respondent alleging that he had used her medical information and unanonymised photographs in a chapter of his book and in at least two medical presentations, without her prior consent. The respondent submitted his written explanation, stating that on the contrary, he had obtained informed consent from the Patient. Almost two and a half years later, the SMC issued a Notice of Inquiry against the respondent which set out the five charges which were being brought against him (at [4] and [5]). 
 


The charges against the respondent essentially alleged that he was guilty of professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (“MRA”) due to his failure to obtain proper informed consent from the Patient before using her medical information for presentations and publications. The allegedly infringing acts can be summarised as follows (at [6]):
 The findings of the DT


The DT acquitted the respondent of all the charges against him. The DT found that the respondent had obtained the Patient’s informed consent to use her unanonymised photographs and medical information. The recording of this consent was done in a manner which satisfied the applicable standard approved and observed by members of the medical profession with good repute and competency. Further, the Patient had neither revoked nor varied her consent until after the alleged medical presentations had taken place and book chapters had been published (at [9]).
 


The High Court also highlighted the following findings of the DT which it considered relevant to the issue of costs. First, the DT noted that no objective evidence had been adduced by the SMC to support the Patient’s assertion that the respondent had given her separate oral assurances that he would anonymise her photographs and only use medical information related to her condition of enlarged parotid glands. Second, there was no documentary evidence to prove that the respondent had given the medical presentations where he allegedly used the Patient’s medical information and photographs (at [9] to [12]).
 


On the issue of costs, the DT stated, following from Ang Pek San Lawrence v Singapore Medical Council [2015] 2 SLR 1179 (“Lawrence Ang”), that it had an implied ancillary power to order costs against the SMC, and this was important to incentivise appropriate conduct in litigation and discourage behaviour that impedes the administration of justice. The DT concluded that in the present case, where the Complaints Committee of the SMC had ordered that an inquiry be held, there was no reason to depart from the trite principle that costs follow the event (at [14] and [15]).
 
 Reasons for the Court's decision


The High Court dismissed the SMC’s appeal against the DT’s costs order (at [25]). As a preliminary point, the High Court noted that the SMC had not appealed against any part of the DT’s decision on the merits, nor had it challenged any of the DT’s findings. Therefore, in determining whether an adverse costs order against the SMC was warranted, the Court proceeded on the basis that all of the DT’s findings were correct (at [21]).
 


The High Court rejected the SMC’s argument that because the parties had not been afforded an opportunity to make submissions on costs before the DT, the respondent could not have discharged his burden to show that he was entitled to costs. The Court noted that the SMC had in fact made oral submissions before the DT, and in any event, there was no requirement for a medical practitioner to have to expressly ask for costs before costs can be awarded in his favour (at [22] to [23]) Even if the DT had erred in rendering an award on costs without first affording parties an opportunity to make submissions, the Court held that it was not precluded from looking at the DT’s findings anew and issuing a fresh award on costs (at [24]).
 


The High Court was satisfied that an adverse costs order was properly made against the SMC for the following reasons. First, the respondent was acquitted of all the charges by the DT, and was therefore the “successful” party at the proceedings below. The Court noted that while the success of either party should not be the only factor to be considered, it is nevertheless a factor (at [26]). However, the actual language utilised by the DT (at [424] of its Grounds of Decision) to the effect that “there was no reason to depart from the trite principle that costs ought to follow the event” was perhaps infelicitous in so far as it suggested (when taken in isolation) an endorsement of this principle as a primary and freestanding one (which would, of course, have been at variance with the principles set out in Lawrence Ang that were in fact cited and applied by the DT itself) (at [27]).
 


Second, based on the findings of the DT, the Court was satisfied that the charges against the respondent were not brought on grounds that reasonably appeared to be sound. The SMC did not have any objective evidence to prove that the respondent had given the alleged medical presentations which were the subject of Charges 3 and 5. (at [29] to [32]). Further, the SMC’s expert witness admitted that he did not have any authority, nor relevant professional experience, for his opinion that the respondent was under a duty to (a) inform the Patient of her right to revoke her consent and (b) obtain either explicit permission for “blanket use” of the Patient’s photographs and medical information or permission for the specific and full extent of each instance of use as proximally as possible. Yet, the SMC had relied entirely on its expert’s opinion to argue that this was the standard expected of the respondent ([33] to [36]). Finally, the DT found the complaints made by the Patient to be vexatious and baseless. The Court stated that it should have been incumbent on the SMC to ascertain the veracity of these complaints before preferring the charges. This was especially so given that the SMC founded the factual basis for its case entirely on the evidence of the Patient and her husband (at [38] to [40]).
 


The High Court highlighted that the DT was wrong to suggest that where the Complaints Committee ordered an inquiry to be held, it would not be a reason to depart from the principle that costs follow the event. The Court noted, following from Lawrence Ang, that the ordering of an inquiry by the Complaints Committee should be a reason against imposing an adverse costs order on the SMC (at [41] to [43]). However, the mere fact of proceedings being referred by the Complaints Committee does not necessarily lead to the conclusion that costs should not be awarded against the SMC. The SMC would still have an obligation to independently verify a complaint even if the matter was referred to it by the Complaints Committee (at [44]).
 


The High Court held that an inordinate delay in the prosecution of a medical practitioner’s case would be a relevant consideration in favour of ordering costs against the SMC. The High Court set out three cumulative requirements which would have to be fulfilled before the court can consider the time taken for the prosecution in determining whether to order costs against the SMC. First, there must be a significant delay in the prosecution. This would not be measured in terms of the absolute length of time that has transpired, but must be assessed relative to the complexity of the underlying investigations. Second, the delay must not have been contributed to in any way by the medical practitioner. Third, the delay must have resulted in real injustice or prejudice to the medical practitioner. This would include, for example, mental anguish, anxiety and distress suffered by the medical practitioner, any tarnishing of the medical practitioner’s reputation or any loss of income or career opportunities. (at [49] to [51]).
 


The High Court held that there was an inordinate delay in the prosecution of the respondent in the present case. The SMC only issued the Notice of Inquiry to the respondent 2 years and 6 months after the respondent had submitted his written explanation. Moreover, the Court found that this was not a particularly complex matter, both factually and legally. The delay was further exacerbated by the DT’s finding that Patient’s complaints were vexatious and baseless, and that the SMC’s expert’s evidence was completely unsupported. The Court was also satisfied that the respondent had not contributed to the delay in any way. Finally, the Court accepted as a matter of natural inference that the respondent had suffered anxiety and distress due to the delay in the prosecution. The Court therefore concluded that the time taken for the prosecution in this case was a factor in favour of costs being ordered against the SMC (at [52] to [54]).
 


The High Court rejected the respondent’s submission that he had suffered financial prejudice as a result of having to incur unnecessary costs in defending himself against an unmeritorious prosecution. Costs ordinarily and necessarily required in litigation would not constitute financial prejudice. In any event, the respondent’s costs would have been covered by his professional insurance (at [55] to [57]).
 


This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.




