

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


18 October 2019


Case summary


Re Gearing, Matthew Peter QC

[2019] SGHC 249



Originating Summons No 853 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the High Court (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice Steven
Chong):



Outcome: The High Court dismissed an application by Mr Matthew Peter
Gearing QC for ad hoc admission to defend against a
setting-aside application in the context of an investor-State arbitration.
In doing so, the High Court elaborated on the mandatory requirements and
the considerations in deciding whether to admit a foreign senior counsel.
In particular, the High Court considered how the complexity of the issues
should feature in ad hoc admissions.


Introduction
1  Mr Matthew Peter Gearing QC (“Mr Gearing”) is a Queen’s Counsel who
applied to be admitted to the Singapore bar on an ad hoc
basis. Mr Gearing was the lead counsel for the Investor in an
investor-State arbitration (“the Arbitration”).
        
Procedural background
2 In February 2017, an investor (“the Investor”) commenced the
Arbitration proceedings against a foreign State (“the State”).
Shortly after, the State filed several objections contesting the
arbitral tribunal’s (“the Tribunal”) jurisdiction to hear the
Investor’s claims. The State’s objections pertained to alleged
non-compliance with the 2013 Arbitral Rules of the United Nations
Commission on International Trade Law (“the UNCITRAL Rules”) and a
bilateral treaty (“the Bilateral Treaty”) in relation to the
appointment of the Presiding Arbitrator. The State further alleged
that several provisions of the Bilateral Treaty precluded
overlapping claims or imposed time-bars and that the Investor’s
Arbitration claim was also precluded on the basis of an exclusive
jurisdiction clause in another agreement.
       
3  In its Decision, the Tribunal rejected the State’s objections and
affirmed its own jurisdiction to hear the Investor’s claims.
Dissatisfied, the State brought proceedings in the Singapore courts
to set aside the Decision (“the Setting Aside Proceedings”). The
Setting Aside Proceedings have since been transferred to the
Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”).
       
4  In defending the Tribunal’s Decision in the Setting Aside
Proceedings, the Investor applied to the High Court to admit Mr
Gearing to represent it. The Investor contended that the underlying
issues in the Setting Aside Proceedings were “complex”,
“significant”, “completely novel” and of “potentially precedential
value”. The Investor argued that Mr Gearing’s assistance was
necessary, as there were no local counsel available with the
relevant expertise, or who were otherwise appropriate to act for it
in the Setting Aside Proceedings.
       
The High Court’s decision
5  The High Court remarked that this application for ad hoc
admission was unique in that the Investor was seeking to admit Mr
Gearing to defend a Decision that had been rendered in its favour.
Moreover, insofar as the issues were alleged to be complex and
novel, the Investor had already argued against those objections
before the Tribunal and succeeded (at [24] and            [29]).
        
6  Moreover, the High Court considered that it would be the State (and
not the Investor) who would be making these allegedly complex
arguments in the Setting Aside Proceedings. In this regard, the
Tribunal had issued a thoroughly-reasoned decision resolving
several of these allegedly complex issues by a plain textual
interpretation of the Bilateral Treaty and relatively
straightforward factual analyses. This could not be said to be a
situation where the cards were stacked against the Investor (at[24], [27] and            [29]).
        
Mandatory requirements
7   The High Court accepted the Investor’s submission that Mr Gearing
fulfilled the mandatory requirements for ad hoc admission.
Mr Gearing had successfully argued the jurisdictional issues before
the Tribunal and it would be odd to claim he did not have the
special qualifications and expertise for the purpose of the Setting
Aside Proceedings (at [19]).
        
Complexity of the issues
8    However, the High Court was not persuaded the issues involved were
sufficiently complex. Although the underlying dispute between the
Investor and the State involved issues of public international law,
investor-State treaties and international obligations, the relevant
inquiry was the State’s objections to jurisdiction (at            [19] and [23]).
        
9    In this regard, the High Court elaborated that:
       
      (a) The mere fact that public international law was the focus did not
necessarily elevate the complexity of the issues involved. These
simply concerned fundamental principles of statutory interpretation
and treaty interpretation, which were not alien to the Singapore
courts and which was not beyond the competence of local senior
practitioners (at [39]–[41],            [47]–[49], [59]
and [63]);
        
      (b) If complex doctrinal debates in public international law arose,
those arguments had already been made before the Tribunal. The
Investor had the benefit of previous research and authorities, and
would have the benefit of Mr Gearing’s written submissions. If the
court were to feel that further assistance was required, it was
open to it to invite an amicus curiae to assist (at[51]–[52] and            [56]);
        
      (c) Local counsel had encountered similar issues in dealing with
statutory time-bars, stay of proceeding applications in favour of
foreign arbitration, conflict of law issues, and abuse of process
arguments. These issues were not beyond the competence of local
counsel who commonly handled litigation with cross-border elements
(at [59] and [63]); and
        
      (d) The SICC’s bench comprised of experienced local and foreign Judges,
and the court itself would possess the necessary expertise (at            [85]).
        

Search for, and availability of, local counsel


10    The High Court commented that the Investor’s search for local counsel was
sorely lacking. Initially, the Investor cursorily offered the names of two
local senior counsel, one of whom was opposing counsel representing the
State. When the State proposed the names of nine other local counsel, the
Investor rejected them despite not having approached any of them to ask if
they would be willing or able to represent it in the Setting Aside
Proceedings (at [75]–[77]).


11  The High Court observed that if the issues involved were truly beyond
local counsel’s ability because they were too esoteric and complex, or if
there was a conflict of interest, local counsel should be expected to be
open and candid enough to declare their conflicts, or to admit that the
issues involved were too complicated. In that event, the High Court was
confident that local counsel would be willing to second-chair or co-chair
for learning purposes so they could take the lead the next time around (at    [77] and [80]).


12  As a result of the foregoing, the High Court dismissed Mr Gearing’s
application and ordered the Investor to pay costs to the State (at    [89]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


