
 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
11 October 2019
Case summary
Aljunied-Hougang Town Council and
another v Lim Swee Lian Sylvia and others and another suit [2019] SGHC 241
Suit Nos 668 and 716 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court
(Kannan Ramesh J):
Outcome: The High Court allows in part the claims of
AHTC and PRPTC against town councillors, senior employees, and the former
Managing Agent of AHTC, including for breach of fiduciary duties and allowing
improper payments.
Facts
1             
The first to third defendants – Ms Sylvia Lim,
Mr Low Thia Khiang and Mr Pritam Singh – were elected as town councillors of
Aljunied-Hougang Town Council (“AHTC”) following the 2011 General Elections.
The fourth and fifth defendants, Mr David Chua and Mr Kenneth Foo, were
subsequently appointed as town councillors of AHTC. The sixth and seventh
defendants, Ms How Weng Fan and Mr Danny Loh, were later appointed Deputy
Secretary/General Manager and Secretary of AHTC respectively. The claims in
Suit 668 and 716 arise out of the defendants’ conduct in relation to AHTC, the
plaintiff in Suit 668. The plaintiff in Suit 716, Pasir Ris-Punggol Town
Council (“PRPTC”), makes similar claims against the defendants because
Punggol-East Single Member Constituency was part of AHTC from 2013 to 2015
before it became part of PRPTC on 1 October 2015, resulting in the rights of Punggol-East
Single Member Constituency being transferred to PRPTC on 1 October 2015
pursuant to the Town Councils (Declaration of Towns) Order 2015. As Mr Danny
Loh has passed away, he is represented in these proceedings by his wife Ms How
Weng Fan as the personal representative of his estate. 
2             
The trial has been bifurcated into two parts. In
the present first stage of the trial, the court will decide only on the
defendants’ liability to the plaintiffs for each of their claims, as well as
the nature of the remedies the plaintiffs are entitled to obtain from the
defendants. At the future second stage of the trial, the court will assess the
quantum of compensation that the plaintiffs are entitled to from the
defendants.
3             
The claims against the first to seventh
defendants generally arise out of their alleged breaches of fiduciary duties
owed to AHTC, as well as statutory and tortious duties. These breaches
allegedly occurred as a result of the award of managing agent (“MA”) contracts
and essential maintenance services (“EMSU”) contracts to the eighth defendant,
FMSS, which was controlled by Mr Danny Loh and Ms How Weng Fan.
a.           
The first MA and EMSU contracts were awarded to
FMSS in 2011 without a tender being called, purportedly because the requirement
for such tender was waived under r 74(17) of the Town Council Financial Rules
(“TCFR”) as a result of urgent and “very special circumstances” (r 74(18)). The
plaintiffs say that no such urgency or special circumstances existed.
b.           
The second MA and EMSU contracts were awarded to
FMSS in 2012 after a tender was called, in which FMSS was the sole bidder. The
plaintiffs say that this was a state of affairs engineered by the defendants,
and that the defendants failed to correct their breaches of duties from 2011. 
The first to seventh defendants were also
alleged to have breached their duties in relation to the approval of payments
made to FMSS under these MA and EMSU contracts, as well as similar payments
made under an earlier EMSU contract with FMSI, which is a sole proprietorship
operated by Mr Danny Loh.
4             
In addition to these four main contracts, the
plaintiffs challenge the propriety of several other contracts awarded to third
party contractors by the defendants from 2012 to 2015. These were to contractors
known as LST Architects, Red-Power, Rentokil, J Keart, and Titan, and the
awards are challenged by the plaintiffs as either failing to comply with the
TCFR, or being at higher rates than were necessary.
5             
The first to seventh defendants deny owing duties
of a fiduciary nature to AHTC. They also deny any improper conduct in relation
to the awarding of the four MA and EMSU contracts, the payments made under the
contracts (including the earlier EMSU contract with FMSI), as well as the
awarding of the contracts to the third party contractors. They argue that in
any case, they can rely on the defence of good faith provided in s 52 of the
Town Councils Act (“TCA”), and that some of the claims against them are
time-barred under the Limitation Act.
Decision of the High Court
Whether the defendants owed AHTC fiduciary duties
6             
The first to fifth defendants owed fiduciary
duties to AHTC by virtue of being town councillors: (at [175], [191], [212], [216], [218], [223], [225]).
a.           
In Attorney-General
v Aljunied-Hougang-Punggol East Town Council [2016] 1 SLR 915 (“AHPETC (CA)”), the Court of Appeal held
that the relationship between a Town Council and the Ministry of National
Development was governed purely by public law; this should not be taken to mean
that every legal relationship involving
a Town Council and another party is governed purely by public law. Whether a
legal relationship created by statute and involving the exercise of statutory
powers gives rise to private law obligations depends on whether that relationship
has any legal character independent of public law. 
b.           
Section 5 of the TCA provides that the Town
Council is to be a body corporate. This brings the role of town councillors in
directing the Town Council within the template of a body corporate and its officers,
and they must therefore act in accordance with the duties that the law imposes
on officers of bodies corporate. In this regard, there is a close analogy
between town councillors and directors of a company or council members of a
strata development management corporation. There is no reason not to conclude
that town councillors have undertaken to act on behalf of their Town Council in
a relationship of trust and confidence that gives rise to fiduciary duties.
This means town councillors must manage the estate and serve the interests of
their Town Council with single-minded loyalty, and for proper purposes. 
c.            
The political context of Town Councils does not
militate against imposing fiduciary obligations on town councillors. 
d.           
The volunteer status of appointed town
councillors such as Mr David Chua and Mr Kenneth Foo does not preclude them
from owing fiduciary duties.
7             
The sixth and seventh defendants owed fiduciary
duties to AHTC by virtue of being part of the senior management of AHTC. Employees
are fiduciaries if their duties require them to act with a single-minded
loyalty, and “top management” will commonly have undertaken such duties to
their employers. Ms How Weng Fan was Deputy Secretary/General Manager of AHTC and
Mr Danny Loh was Secretary of AHTC, and these roles were part of the top
management of AHTC – there were no other employees of AHTC more senior than
them. It is true that the General Manager and Secretary of AHTC were intended by
design to simultaneously also be senior employees of the MA, and would
therefore also owe duties to the MA. However, any potential conflicts of
interest that arise from this must be managed as part of Ms How Weng Fan and Mr
Danny Loh’s fiduciary duties to AHTC, and did not mean that they cannot owe
fiduciary duties: (at [228], [232],
[235]–[237]). 
The award of the first MA contract
8             
The evidence shows that there was a clear plan
for FMSS to replace the incumbent MA CPG regardless of CPG’s intention as
regards the existing MA contract, and that this decision was made by Ms Sylvia
Lim and Mr Low Thia Khiang shortly after the 2011 General Elections. The waiver
of tender and subsequent appointment of FMSS was not a contingency, but a fait
accompli by the time of the 30 May 2011 meeting with CPG. There was no
urgency of circumstances that would have justified the waiver of tender,
particularly since CPG was contractually obliged to continue serving as the MA
under the existing MA contract, and the defendants should have held CPG to that
contractual obligation, at least for such time as was necessary for a tender to
be called. The TCFR does not allow a waiver of tender except in very special
circumstances, and it is clear that other alternative solutions had not been explored
in this case before tender was waived. This was because the sole objective was
for CPG to be replaced as MA by FMSS: (at [250],
[260], [261], [270], [278]).
9             
Mr Low Thia Khiang’s own evidence showed that the
real reason behind the waiver of tender and the plan for FMSS to replace CPG was
his distrust of CPG and other entities he perceived to be affiliated to the
People’s Action Party, as well as his sense of loyalty towards the staff of
Hougang Town Council who risked being retrenched if CPG continued as MA of the
expanded AHTC: (at [283]–[286]).
10          
The decision of whether to appoint FMSS was
deliberately kept away from its natural forum, the Town Council meeting, and
placed in the hands of Ms Sylvia Lim. This, and the rescheduling of the second
Town Council meeting to keep CPG out of the loop, as well as the correspondence
around this time speak to a lack of transparency and candour on the part of Ms
Sylvia Lim and Mr Low Thia Khiang. In particular, it is unacceptable and
egregious for Mr Low Thia Khiang to have asked Mr Danny Loh to prepare a draft
report on FMSS’s appointment to be tabled at the second Town Council meeting,
and for Ms Sylvia Low to have requested Mr Danny Loh and Ms How Weng Fan to
“sanitise” the report to pass the scrutiny of auditors, when the report
concerned FMSS’s appointment as MA. This report and the subsequent press
release on 5 August 2011 painted a misleading narrative of the reason why
tender was waived: (at [293]–[298], [300],
[304]–[311]).
a.           
In the circumstances, the waiver of tender
leading to the award of the first MA contract was not justified under the TCFR,
and Ms Sylvia Lim and Mr Low Thia Khiang breached their fiduciary duties to
AHTC as they had failed to act in AHTC’s best interests and had acted for extraneous
purposes. 
b.           
As Mr Pritam Singh’s involvement in the early
events is less clear from the evidence and there was no substantial
cross-examination on his involvement, it cannot be said that he has breached
his fiduciary duties to AHTC.
However, he has breached his duties of skill and care to AHTC in respect of the
award of the first MA contract, along with Mr David Chua and Mr Kenneth Foo, as
they ought to have inquired as to the circumstances of the waiver.
c.            
Ms How Weng Fan’s heavy involvement in the award
of the first MA contract to FMSS suffices for a finding that she too breached
her fiduciary duties to AHTC. Mr Danny Loh’s fiduciary duties to AHTC only
began from the date of his appointment of Secretary of AHTC, 1 August 2011, and
since the first MA contract was entered into before that date, he is not liable
for breach of fiduciary duties in this regard.
The award of the first EMSU contract
11          
The defendants ought to have been aware by May
or June 2011 that the existing EMSU contract would expire on 30 September 2011,
and would therefore have had time to call a tender. The reason they did not do
so must have been because this would have derailed the plan to appoint FMSS as
MA and to subsequently provide both MA and EMSU services to AHTC. Although CPG may
have verbally indicated that it would extend its provision of EMSU services
beyond 30 September 2011, this did not justify the defendants’ inaction since
there was no promise by EM Services, which was then providing EMSU services for
another part of AHTC, to do the same. Since the award of the first EMSU
contract is linked to the award of the first MA contract, the basis of
liability of the defendants is the same, except that Mr Danny Loh is also in
breach of his fiduciary duties to AHTC, since those duties would have arisen by
the time of the award of the first EMSU contract: (at [323]–[326], [328], [334]).
The award of the second MA and EMSU contracts
12          
There were no independent or continuing breaches
of duties arising from the award of the second MA and EMSU contracts to FMSS
after tender. However, to the extent that the award of the second MA and EMSU contracts to FMSS resulted in any loss to AHTC,
these would be recoverable as consequential losses flowing from the breaches in
relation to the award of the first MA
and EMSU contracts: (at [335]–[338]).
Improper payments to FMSS and FMSI
13          
The involvement of conflicted persons in the
approval process for payments to FMSS and FMSI created an inherent risk of
overpayment in the absence of safeguards. The standing instruction for payments
to FMSS to be co-signed by the AHTC Chairman or Vice-Chairman was not a
sufficient safeguard because there was no system to ensure that each cheque
presented was fully verified by independent parties. In some instances, there
was no proper verification even by conflicted persons, as supporting documents were
signed after a mere tallying exercise. These control failures were systemic and
represent a breach of the duties of skill and care owed by the first to seventh
defendants: (at [347]–[349], [352], [361]).
14          
AHTC has not shown that the payments to FMSS for
project management fees were unjustified. AHTC relies only on unproduced “legal
advice” regarding the MA contract to show that certain services were wrongly
classified as project management services for which additional fees to FMSS
were payable, when these services allegedly ought to have been classified as MA
services for which no additional fees were payable. This does not suffice to
show that the classification was factually wrong in each instance, since the MA
contract was ambiguous as to the correct classification: (at [378], [379]).
Award of contracts and payments to third party contractors
15          
The award of contracts to LST Architects was problematic
on two levels. First, whilst r 74(1) of the TCFR allows the award of
omnibus contracts for services to be provided for multiple projects over a
period of time, it requires contracts to be awarded to the lowest bidder for
the omnibus contracts on specific parameters. There should be no residual
discretion to award omnibus contracts to two bidders on a panel based on those
parameters, and yet award subsequent projects to the more expensive of those
bidders, which was the effect of AHTC’s practice. Second, it was also in
contravention of the TCFR to award seven contracts to LST Architects as the
higher bidder on the basis that the lower bidder, Design Metabolists, had such
shortcomings that it was no longer a viable option. If the defendants felt that
Design Metabolists, the only other contractor on the panel, was not a legitimate
option, then they should have called a fresh tender. The awards to LST
Architects thus represented a breach of the duties of skill and care of the town
councillors who were members of the Tender Committee which made the decision,
namely, Ms Sylvia Lim, Mr Pritam Singh and Mr Kenneth Foo: (at [397]–[399], [403], [405]). 
16          
The award of the contract to Red-Power when
there was an option to extend the existing contracts with Digo and Terminal 9
for a further 12 and 24 months was a breach of the duties of skill and care of
Ms Sylvia Lim, Mr Pritam Singh, Mr Kenneth Foo and Mr David Chua as members of
the Tender Committee. This breach does not extend to the subsequent inclusion
of Punggol-East in the contract with Red-Power, since the other service
provider, Tong Lee, was not obliged to extend its services to Punggol-East: (at
[411], [412]).
17          
The award of the contract to Rentokil was
justified as the Tender Committee considered that Rentokil was more experienced
and more likely to enable AHTC to obtain subsidies from NEA’s rat control
programme than the slightly cheaper vendor, Pest-Pro. These reasons were
properly documented in the meeting minutes of the Tender Committee and there
was thus no breach of duties by the defendants: (at [415], [416]).
18          
The award of new contracts to Titan and J Keart
when there were options to extend the existing contracts with both contractors
was similarly a breach of the duties of skill and care of the town councillors
who were members of the Tender Committee, namely, Ms Sylvia Lim, Mr Pritam
Singh, Mr Kenneth Foo and Mr David Chua. The Tender Committee was aware that
Titan and J Keart’s bids for new contracts were at much higher rates than their
existing contracts. At this point, they ought to have satisfied themselves that
the increase in rates was justified by examining the existing contracts. If
they had done so, they would have realised that there was an option to extend
the existing contracts, and the award of fresh contracts to Titan and J Keart
at higher rates would have been avoided: (at [421], [422]).
19          
There were no breaches of duties on the part of
the defendants in making payment on 12 invoices totalling $171,112.62 and 56
invoices totalling $674,388.70 to third party contractors. The mere fact that
the 12 invoices were not accompanied by monthly service reports or other
supporting documents did not mean that there was such a breach, since these
were invoices to third party contractors for routine works, or works for which
AHTC had since been reimbursed. As for the 56 invoices, any breach of the TCFR
was by the Head of Department, and there was insufficient evidence of any of
the defendants’ involvement in the payment approval process for these invoices:
(at [426], [427], [438], [439]).
The liability of the sixth to eighth defendants for dishonest assistance
and knowing receipt
20          
The sixth to eighth defendants dishonestly
assisted Mr Low Thia Khiang and Ms Sylvia Lim’s breach of fiduciary duties with
regard to the first MA and EMSU contracts. Both Ms How Weng Fan and Mr Danny
Loh assisted in FMSS’s appointment under these contracts, and would have been
aware that AHTC had waived tender improperly. Their knowledge can also be
imputed to FMSS, since it is undisputed that they were FMSS’s controlling
minds. FMSS is also liable for knowing receipt for the payments to it under the
first MA and EMSU contracts: (at [455]–[458]).
Whether the claims are time-barred
21          
Although the claim in relation to the first MA
contract and the claim in relation to four invoices issued between 28 May and
28 July 2011 would fall outside of a six-year limitation period, they are not
time-barred. This is because s 24A(3)(b)
of the Limitation Act applies: the plaintiffs did not have the requisite
knowledge to bring a claim against the defendants until the Auditor-General’s
Report was issued on 9 February 2015, and a 3-year limitation period therefore
commenced from that date under s 24A(3)(b).
In the alternative, the claim for breach of fiduciary duties in relation to the
first MA contract would also not be time-barred by virtue of s 22(1) of the
Limitation Act. Ms Sylvia Lim and Mr Low Thia Khiang fall within s 22(1)(a) because their breach of fiduciary
duties was “fraudulent” under s 22(1)(a),
which uses an expanded definition of “fraud” that does not require deceit or
personal gain. Ms How Weng Fan falls within s 22(1)(b) because she had beneficially received AHTC’s funds under the
first MA contract: (at [473], [484], [487]).
Whether the defence of good faith under s 52 TCA applies
22          
Section 52 of the TCA does not apply in the
present case. On a proper reading, s 52 only protects Town Council members,
officers, etc, from personal liability to third parties, and not from
liability to the Town Council itself. Interpreting s 52 as protecting members
and officers from liability to the Town Council would prevent the Town Council
from enforcing terms of employment contracts and pursuing other claims in
contract, tort or breach of fiduciary duties so long as the member or officer
acted in good faith in the performance of statutory duties. This would rewrite
many such obligations, and Parliament cannot have intended to do so by the
terms of s 52 TCA: (at [494], [495], [498]).
Other defences raised by the sixth to eighth defendants
23          
The sixth and eighth defendants’ submissions
that they are entitled to relief under s 60 of the Trustees Act, that the
plaintiffs are estopped by convention from suing them, and that the Independent
Panel was invalidly appointed are rejected: (at [518], [522], [526]).
Summary of the defendants’ liability
24          
The following table summarises the defendants’
liability in Suit 668 and Suit 716:




 


Claim


Liability of:




Ms Sylvia Lim


Mr Low Thia Khiang


Mr Pritam Singh


Mr David Chua


Mr Kenneth Foo


Ms How Weng Fan


Mr Danny Loh


FMSS






Waiver of tender and appointment of
            FMSS as MA and EMSU provider




1


First
            MA contract


Breach
            of fiduciary duties


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


Breach
            of fiduciary duties
Dishonest
            assistance


Dishonest
            assistance


Dishonest assistance
Knowing receipt




2


First
            EMSU contract


Breach
            of fiduciary duties
Dishonest
            assistance




3


Second
            MA and EMSU contracts


No
            independent or continuing breach, but possible consequential loss




Payments to FMSS




4


Control
            failures


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


–




5


Invoice
            for $106,559 dated 30 June 2011 and invoice for $166,591 dated 31 July 2011


No
            breach




6


Payment
            of project management fees




7


Miscellaneous
            improper payments to FMSS


Breach
            of duties of skill and care, except re. payments for overtime claims




Improper award of
            contracts to third parties




8


LST
            Architects


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


No
            breach


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


No
            breach


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


No
            breach


–




9


Red-Power


Breach
            of duties of skill and care, except re. inclusion of Punggol-East


No
            breach


Breach
            of duties of skill and care, except re. inclusion of Punggol-East


No
            breach


–




10


Rentokil


No
            breach




11


Titan
            and J Keart


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


No
            breach


Breach
            of duties of skill and care


No
            breach




Improper payments to third parties




12


12
            invoices without supporting documents


No
            breach


–




13


56
            invoices without Head of Department signature




Remedies which the plaintiffs are entitled to pursue
25          
Contrary to PRPTC’s submission, the first to
seventh defendants are not trustees of AHTC’s assets. Town councillors, like
company directors, may be akin to trustees, but are not trustees. Town
councillors are, however, custodial fiduciaries. This means that they have
custodial duties over their Town Council’s assets, and may be ordered to reconstitute
those assets if they misapply them: (at [539],
[543]).
26          
Although the finding that Ms Sylvia Lim and Mr
Low Thia Khiang are custodial fiduciaries means that they are liable to give a
common account, the question is whether this makes any difference to the
reliefs the plaintiffs are entitled to for their breach of fiduciary duties.
Following the decisions of the House of Lords in Target Holdings Ltd v
Redferns (a firm) and another [1996] 1 AC 421 (“Target Holdings”) and the UK Supreme Court in AIB Group (UK) plc
v Mark Redler & Co Solicitors [2015] AC 1503 (“AIB”), the same approach to equitable compensation ought to apply
to the remedy for a breach of a fiduciary duty, whether or not this is preceded
by the taking of a common account. When awarding equitable compensation, the
court should be concerned not so much with the fact of the misapplication of
the trust property, but rather the true or proper loss that is suffered. In the
present case, all the disbursements under the first and second MA and EMSU
contracts could be said to involve the misapplication of AHTC’s monies.
However, in return AHTC had received MA and EMSU services, which was something
it was required to procure. The loss flowing from the misapplication is
therefore prima facie the difference between the amount of money
misapplied and the value of the net benefits actually obtained by AHTC: (at [546], [563], [564], [566], [568]).
27          
The legal burden of proving loss falls upon the
plaintiffs. The evidential burden of proof likewise starts with the plaintiffs,
although equity will draw an adverse inference against the defaulting party
provided there is reason to believe that the transaction in question is dubious
in nature. Further, the plaintiffs must prove that the defendants’ breach was the
but-for cause of their loss. The position in Winsta Holding Pte Ltd and another v Sim Poh Ping and others [2018]
SGHC 239 that but-for causation must be proven for all breaches of fiduciary
duties, which follows the position in Target Holdings and AIB, is
therefore preferred over the alternative approaches: (at [576], [579], [584], [594], [602]).
28          
In addition, even if the court has the
discretion to order a common account in the present case, it would not exercise
this discretion. That is because the purpose of a common account is to identify
the whereabouts of the trust property, and there is no confusion as to where
and to whom AHTC’s funds were paid in the present case (at [608]).
29          
In respect of the other remedies sought by the
plaintiffs in relation to the defendants’ breach of fiduciary duties:
a.           
The plaintiffs may seek an account of profits
against Ms How Weng Fan and Mr Danny Loh, but they must elect between seeking
an account of profits and equitable compensation: (at [613]). 
b.           
The first MA and EMSU contracts are voidable by virtue of being entered into
in breach of fiduciary duty, and the plaintiffs may seek to rescind them.
However, rescission of the contracts would also require the benefits received
by AHTC under them to be returned: (at [614],
[616]). 
c.            
In contrast, the plaintiffs’ submission that the
first MA and EMSU contracts are void from the start because they are
unlawful as a matter of public law is rejected. Although the first MA and EMSU
contracts are unlawful as a matter of public law, they are nevertheless only
voidable, not void, because AHTC did not lack capacity to enter into those
contracts altogether: (at [618], [627]).
30          
In respect of the remaining remedies sought by
the plaintiffs:
a.           
The sixth to eighth defendants’ liability for
dishonest assistance is the same as the liability of Ms Sylvia Lim and Mr Low
Thia Khiang for breach of fiduciary duties, including any consequential losses:
(at [630]).
b.           
FMSS’s liability for knowing receipt only
extends to payments made by AHTC under the first
MA and EMSU contracts, and PRPTC is also entitled to a tracing order against
FMSS in respect of these payments: (at [632],
[633]).
c.            
The remedy for the defendants’ breaches of their
equitable duties of skill and care is identical to damages for negligence: (at [634]).
d.           
PRPTC’s submission that the defendants are
liable under rr 56(1) and 56(2) of the TCFR is rejected: (at [636]).
e.           
The plaintiffs may pursue claims against the
defendants for their investigation expenses as consequential losses flowing
from the defendants’ breaches: (at [639],
[640]).
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
