
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 September
2019
Case summary
Bi Xiaoqiong (in her personal capacity
and as trustee of the Xiao Qiong Bi Trust and the Alisa Wu Irrevocable Trust) v
China Medical Technologies, Inc (in liquidation) and another
[2019] SGCA 50 
Civil Appeal No 188 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):
<CoA gives
its reasons for dismissing the appeal against grant of Mareva injunction and
sets out the conditions required for the exercise of the Court’s power to grant
Mareva injunctions in support of foreign court proceedings> 
1          This was an appeal against the decision
of a High Court Judge (“the Judge”) to grant a Mareva injunction. 
Background to the appeal
2        The second respondent, CMED
Technologies Ltd (“CMED”), was the wholly-owned subsidiary of the first
respondent, China Medical Technologies, Inc (“CMT”). Mr Wu Xiaodong (“Mr Wu”)
founded CMT and ran it until it was wound up in 2012. The appellant was Ms Bi
Xiaoqiong (“Ms Bi” or “the appellant”). Ms Bi and Ms Wu were married in 1995,
and were divorced in 2012: at [3]-[5]. 
3          After investigating the affairs of CMT
and CMED, the liquidators of CMT (“the Liquidators”) took the view that as much
as US$521.8m had been fraudulently misappropriated from the respondents by
members of their former management. The respondents therefore started a series
of legal proceedings against these persons in Hong Kong and Singapore. The
respondents alleged in these lawsuits that the US$521.8m had been paid out of
the respondents’ accounts through a series of banking transactions controlled
by CMT’s former management. The recipients of some of the funds allegedly included
Mr Wu and Ms Bi: at [6] and [10]. 
4          In August 2013, CMT commenced
proceedings in Hong Kong against Mr Wu and four others (“the first HK Suit”).
In December 2016, the respondents commenced another set of proceedings in Hong
Kong against Mr Wu, Ms Bi and 21 other defendants (“the second HK Suit”). In
December 2017, the respondents commenced Suit No 1180 of 2017 (“Suit 1180”) in
Singapore, and applied for Mareva injunctions against Mr Wu and Ms Bi. The
claims in Suit 1180 were substantially the same as those pursued in the second
HK Suit. The Mareva injunctions sought were to prevent Mr Wu and Ms Bi from
disposing of their assets in Singapore only (ie, the respondents did not seek worldwide Mareva injunctions). In
relation to Ms Bi, the order sought to restrain the disposal of funds in
various bank accounts, as well as a property in Singapore which she held
jointly with Mr Wu (“the Coral Island Property”). In February 2018, the
respondents applied to stay Suit 1180, save for the proceedings in the
application for Mareva injunctions, pending the final determination of the first
and second HK Suits: at [12]-[14] and [18].
5          The Judge granted the respondents’
application for a Mareva injunction against Ms Bi. The Judge accepted that the
court had a power to grant a Mareva injunction in aid of foreign court
proceedings and that the facts justified the grant of the injunction. The Judge
further granted the respondents’ application to stay Suit 1180 as it was not
disputed that Hong Kong was the more appropriate forum of the dispute: at [21]-[23]. 
6          On appeal, Ms Bi contended that the
court did not have the power to grant a Mareva injunction against her, and that
even if the court had the power, the injunction should not have been granted: at
[28] and [128].
Decision on appeal
6          The
Court of Appeal dismissed Ms Bi’s appeal, and affirmed the Judge’s decision to
grant the Mareva injunction: at [156].
7          On the issue of whether the High Court
had the power to grant a Mareva injunction against the appellant, the Court of
Appeal held that the High Court had this power for the following reasons: 
a.         Section 4(10) of the Civil Law Act (Cap
43, 1999 Rev Ed) (“the CLA”) confers on the court a wide power to grant
mandatory orders or injunctions. The only express requirements imposed are that
the injunction must be of an “interlocutory” nature, and that it can be made
only in “cases in which it appears to the court to be just or convenient that
such order should be made”. As a starting point, it was broad enough to
encompass Mareva injunctions in aid of foreign court proceedings: at [37]. 
b.         The legislative purpose underlying s
4(10) of the CLA did not preclude the court’s powers to grant injunctions in
aid of foreign court proceedings. Section 4(10) of the CLA may be traced back
to its original enactment as s 2(8) of the Straits Settlements Ordinance No IV
of 1878 (“the 1878 Ordinance”), which was based on, and largely identical to, s
25(8) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873 (c 66) (UK) (“the 1873 UK
Act”). The legislative intent behind s 2(8) of the 1878 Ordinance was to
preserve the power of the court to grant the equitable remedy of injunctions,
as part of the broader aim of the 1878 Ordinance to facilitate the concurrent
administration of law and equity. There was little reason to conclude that s
25(8) of the 1873 UK Act was intended to limit the powers of the court to
granting discrete types of injunctions. Instead, the intention underlying s
25(8) of the 1873 UK Act was to preserve the power of the court to grant injunctions.
That was the power to restrain conduct of all kinds, and is as broad as that
which the courts of equity had. The Mareva injunction is but a specific
manifestation of the broader power of the court to restrain the conduct of
person(s) before it: at [40]-[41], [50], [57] and [59].
c.         The court’s power, though broad, is
subject to at least two conditions. The first is that the court must have personal
jurisdiction over the defendant (obtained by way of proper service of the writ
on the defendant or where the defendant submits to the jurisdiction of the
court), and the second is that the plaintiff must have a reasonable accrued
cause of action against the defendant in Singapore. There was no further
requirement that the cause of action against the defendant must also terminate
in a judgment rendered by the court that issues the injunction. Although the respondents’
application to stay Suit 1180 carried with it the possibility that no judgment
will eventually be granted by the Singapore court, that did not deprive the
court of its jurisdiction to grant a Mareva injunction. Where a stay of an
action is sought, the court retains a residual jurisdiction over the underlying
cause of action. This is a sound juridical basis on which to ground the court’s
power to grant a Mareva injunction and is consistent with the recognition that
a Mareva injunction in aid of foreign proceedings is ultimately still premised
on, and in support of, proceedings in Singapore. That a Mareva injunction is
expressed to be “in aid of foreign proceedings” is simply terminology, and
acknowledges the reality that the plaintiff who obtains such a Mareva
injunction intends to employ the Mareva injunction in aid of foreign
proceedings. A Mareva injunction of this nature may assist the plaintiff by
ensuring that the plaintiff would have assets in Singapore over which to
enforce the foreign judgment: at [62],
[104], [109] and [111]-[112]. 
8          The Court of Appeal also affirmed that
the Judge had acted appropriately in exercising the power to grant a Mareva
injunction against the appellant:  
a.         The respondents had a good arguable
case on the merits at least in relation to the claim in knowing receipt. The
Judge correctly found that the appellant, being unable to give a reasonable
explanation as to why large sums of money were sent to her by various payors,
must have been aware that the source of the funds was dubious: at [133] and [138].
b.         There was solid evidence of a real risk
of dissipation of assets on the part of the appellant. There was no basis to
disturb the Judge’s finding that the appellant had given no good explanation
for the attempted sales of the Coral Island Property, and a property in the
State of Nevada, USA (“the Nevada Property”): at [143]-[144]. 
c.         The facts did not indicate an
inordinate delay on the part of the respondents in seeking the Mareva
injunction. Although the Liquidators had suspected as early as in 2012 that the
appellant had received funds which were the proceeds of the alleged fraud on
the respondents, 2012 was not the appropriate start date by which to judge the
delay, if any, on the part of the respondents. The respondents based their
application for Mareva relief on the appellant’s attempted sales of the Coral
Island Property and the Nevada Property. The attempted sales were discovered in
November 2017 and this was promptly followed by the application for a Mareva
injunction. The period of three to four weeks did not constitute such delay as
to indicate that the application was an abuse of process: at [149]-[153].
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
