
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
23 September 2019
Case summary
Re Salwant Singh s/o Amer Singh [2019] SGHC 225
Originating Summons No 171 of 2019
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of Sundaresh Menon CJ:
Outcome: Chief Justice refuses leave to commence investigation into complaint of misconduct against Deputy Public Prosecutors as prima facie case for investigation not established by applicant. 
Background to the application 
1     In Originating Summons No 171 of 2019 (“OS 171”), the applicant applied for leave for an investigation to be commenced into his complaint of misconduct against three Legal Service Officers, pursuant to s 82A(5) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”). The three Legal Service Officers were Deputy Public Prosecutors (“DPPs”) involved in prosecuting the applicant more than 15 years ago. 

Facts
2     The applicant was a director of a company (“Infoseek”) which offered international long distance telephone call services. In 2003, he pleaded guilty to and was convicted of five charges of cheating under s 420 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 1985 Rev Ed). An additional 760 charges of cheating, which the applicant admitted to, were taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing. The offences involved overcharging customers. The applicant would either duplicate calls of customers to inflate their total usage, or charge customers twice for the same incurred usage. The applicant would key in the credit card number of the customer into an Electronic Draft Capture (“EDC”) terminal provided by the United Overseas Bank (“UOB”) Card Centre and the bank would credit the amount into Infoseek’s UOB bank account on the next working day.
3     The District Judge sentenced the applicant to 12 years’ preventive detention. The Prosecution filed Magistrate’s Appeal No 115 of 2003 (“MA 115”) on the basis that the sentence imposed by the District Judge was manifestly inadequate. The applicant cross-appealed, claiming that the sentence was excessive. In MA 115, Yong Pung How CJ allowed the Prosecution’s appeal and enhanced the applicant’s sentence to a term of 20 years’ preventive detention. The applicant is currently serving his sentence. 
4     After the appeal was concluded, the applicant filed a number of criminal applications in an attempt to reopen his conviction and sentence. All of these applications had been dismissed by the courts. Following the dismissal of his criminal applications, the applicant filed OS 171 in February 2019.
In OS 171, the applicant claimed that the DPPs fabricated certain charges against him which had been taken into consideration by the court for the purposes of sentencing (“TIC charges”). He claimed that he could not have committed some of the TIC charges as he was not in Singapore at the material time. The applicant relied mainly on (a) the Statement of Facts (“SOF”) which stated that the applicant had left Singapore for India on 6 July 1999; and (b) a scanned copy of a page in his passport showing five date stamps, which he claimed reflected the dates on which he had arrived in India. The applicant contended that the DPPs were aware of his absence from Singapore on the material dates and yet chose to bring the relevant TIC charges against him.
6     Although the applicant had not produced his passport for inspection, for the purposes of OS 171, the Chief Justice proceeded on the basis that the scanned document produced by the applicant was a true copy of the relevant page in his passport.  In addition, although some of the dates on the stamps were not entirely clear, and it was also not clear what the stamps were meant to signify (for instance, if the stamps reflected entry and exit stamps given their different shapes), the Chief Justice assumed in the applicant’s favour that the applicant was correct in asserting that the stamps reflected the dates on which he had arrived in India (at [23]–[24]). Taking the applicant’s case at its highest, 188 of the TIC charges (“the affected charges”) involved transactions which occurred on dates when the applicant was supposedly not in Singapore. None of the five charges proceeded against the applicant were affected (at [27]).

Decision of the Chief Justice
7     The Chief Justice dismissed OS 171. It was found that (a) a prima facie case for an investigation had not been established by the applicant; and (b) in any case, the severe delay in the bringing of the application militated against the granting of leave to commence an investigation.
8     The Chief Justice found that a prima facie case for an investigation had not been established for three principal reasons. 

(a) Delay in raising inconsistency in dates
9     First, the applicant raised the issue with respect to the dates of the charges late in the day and this delay called into question the veracity of his allegation that he had not committed the acts in question under the affected charges. Before the District Judge, the applicant did not claim that he had not committed the acts under some of the charges. The applicant’s principal complaint then was that the DPPs had, in seeking a sentence of preventive detention, resiled from an earlier representation that they would not seek a deterrent or enhanced sentence and would leave sentencing to the court (at [35]). This was rejected by the District Judge. The applicant accepted that he had not raised the matter concerning the dates of the affected charges before the District Judge or in his petition of appeal or written submissions for MA 115, and that the first time he raised the matter was during the oral hearing of MA 115 (at [41]). The delay undermined the credibility of the applicant’s subsequent claims that he did not carry out some or all of the transactions that were the subject of the affected charges. If the applicant truly had not committed some of the offences, the issue with the dates of the affected charges would have been discovered and raised earlier by him and/or his counsel (at [42]). 
10     In addition, even if it was accepted that the applicant was not in Singapore on the dates of the affected charges, this did not lead to the conclusion that the applicant had not carried out the transactions stated in the affected charges. It was perfectly plausible that the dates of those charges were off by a day or two and did not reflect the actual date on which the applicant keyed in the credit card details of his customers into the EDC terminal (at [43]). If the issue had been raised by the applicant timeously, the point could and would have been resolved quickly with recourse to the records. It could not safely be assumed even on a prima facie basis, more than 15 years later, that the affected charges had been fabricated by the DPPs (at [44]). 

(b) The basis of the applicant's conviction and sentence remained unaffected
11     Second, even if the applicant’s case that he did not commit the offences in question under the affected charges were accepted, there remained ample basis for the applicant’s conviction and sentence. 
12     The applicant’s conviction was not affected in any way (at [45]). This is because the applicant’s submission concerned 188 TIC charges. None of the five charges proceeded against the applicant seemed to have been affected. Where a court takes into consideration outstanding offences in the course of sentencing, the court does not convict the defendant of these outstanding offences, but merely relies on the defendant’s admission to these offences as a relevant factor in determining the appropriate length of sentence (at [48]).
13     The basis of the applicant’s sentence also remained unaffected. Leaving aside the affected charges from the equation, there remained a very significant number of TIC charges (specifically, 572) which the applicant had admitted to and which he seemed to have no basis to challenge. The significant number of unaffected TIC charges was more than sufficient to justify any increase in the sentence imposed (at [50]). In any event, the reasons given by Yong CJ for imposing a sentence of 20 years’ preventive detention were not premised on the number of TIC charges which the applicant had admitted to. Yong CJ had sentenced the applicant to 20 years’ preventive detention because he was of the view that it was necessary for the applicant to be incarcerated for a substantial period of time for the protection of the public, in the light of the applicant’s criminal propensity (at [55]). 

(c) No evidence that DPPs were aware of inconsistency in dates
14     Third, while the applicant alleged that the DPPs knowingly and deliberately brought charges against him for acts which they knew he could not have committed as he was not in Singapore at the material time, there was no evidence at all to sustain his allegation (at [57]). There was no evidence to suggest that at the time the DPPs filed the charges, prepared the SOF and decided which charges to proceed with and which to take into consideration for sentencing, they had any awareness of the various dates on which the applicant alleged he was away from Singapore (at [59]). In addition, there was no reason at all for the DPPs to have brought charges against the applicant for transactions which they knew the applicant did not commit. No motive was suggested for such an extraordinary course. Moreover, leaving the affected charges to one side, there were many other transactions on dates the applicant was in Singapore (and which the applicant admitted to) which could sustain the conviction and sentence imposed on the applicant (at [60]).

The implications of the applicant's delay in bringing the complaint
15     Where an application for leave to commence an investigation into alleged misconduct on the part of Legal Service Officers is made more than six years from the date of the alleged misconduct, s 82A(6A) of the LPA expressly affords the Chief Justice the discretion to refuse leave notwithstanding that a prima facie case for an investigation has been made out (at [31]). In this case, a prima facie case for an investigation had not been established. In any event, the severe delay in the bringing of the application militated against the granting of leave to commence an investigation. 
16     The relevant factors which would be considered by the Chief Justice in determining if leave should be refused under s 82A(6A) include the length of the delay, reasons for the delay, and prejudice to the potential respondents arising from the delay. A countervailing factor which would also be considered is the strength of the complaint and whether further investigation is warranted notwithstanding any delay, in order to address any potential prejudice suffered by the complainant from the misconduct and also to safeguard the integrity of the public service (at [64]).
17     On the facts of the present case, all of the relevant factors militated against the granting of leave. The length of the delay (more than 15 years) was significant and substantial prejudice would be occasioned on the DPPs since the delay would likely affect their recollection of the case and access to relevant records on the matter (at [66]). In addition, the strength of the complaint was weak. There was a complete lack of evidence to substantiate the applicant’s case that the DPPs knowingly and deliberately fabricated the affected charges against him. Thus, there was no overriding interest in directing a further investigation as there was no real basis for suggesting that the integrity of the public service had been compromised. There was also no prejudice suffered by the applicant given that, even if his allegations were accepted, they did not in any way affect either the foundation of his conviction or the sentence (at [67]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
