
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
18 September 2019
Case summary
Ye Lin Myint v Public Prosecutor [2019] SGHC 221
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9029 of 2019
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon)
Outcome: High Court dismisses appeal and upholds 29-month sentence ordered for appellant, a former insurance agent, who waged a campaign of criminal intimidation against his clients and prospective clients, and also harassed their family members and neighbours  
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


The High Court sets out a sentencing framework for offences of criminal intimidation by anonymous communication punishable under s 507 of the Penal Code: at [63]–[68]. 


Background to the appeal
1     The appellant, Ye Lin Myint, was formerly an insurance agent. During the course of his employment as an insurance agent, the appellant became upset with some of his clients and prospective clients (“the first set of victims”) for failing to turn up at scheduled appointments with him, or cancelling insurance policies they had bought from him, or declining to buy insurance policies from him. In revenge, the appellant decided to embark on a campaign of criminal intimidation against them over the span of August to September 2017. 
2     This took the form of letters and emails sent to the first set of victims, in which the appellant threatened to humiliate the recipients, make them jobless, destroy their reputations, or even physically harm them or their family members. The appellant also demanded one Bitcoin from each of the recipients. These communications were made anonymously under the pseudonym “Lord Voldermort”. The victims of these communications felt alarmed and each made a police report. 
3     Some time after the appellant commenced this first spate of criminal behaviour, he came across a news article about unlicensed moneylenders harassing debtors for failing to repay their debts. He learnt that one of the methods employed by these unlicensed moneylenders to pressure their debtors was to harass the debtors’ neighbours. The appellant took perverse inspiration from this article and decided to harass the neighbours and family members (“the second set of victims”) of the first set of victims. 
4     This sparked off a fresh wave of harassing communications being sent to the second set of victims, in which the appellant threatened to harass their homes and workplaces, if they did not persuade the relevant person from the first set of victims to pay him what he was owed. Some of these communications went into graphic detail, warning the recipient that the recipient’s house gate might set on fire, or that red paint would be splashed over the recipient’s unit. Other communications raised the prospect of physical harm to the recipient’s family, and one of them threatened the recipient with attacks that would leave the recipient and the recipient’s husband with “irreversible” scars in their lives. The appellant signed off either as “Lord Voldemort”, “Lord Voldermort” or “Dr Bruce Banner” in these communications. This wave of communications also occurred over the span of August to September 2017. Each of the second set of victims felt harassed by these communications and reported the matter to the police. 
5     The appellant’s actions attracted significant media attention, and the Singapore Police Force and a Member of Parliament, Dr Lee Bee Wah, had to issue online advisories advising recipients of these communications not to respond to them and instead to report any suspicious activities.
6     The appellant was only arrested after the police conducted extensive investigations into the offences, recorded multiple statements from victims, and used DNA evidence to trace the appellant. 
7     A total of 43 charges were brought against the appellant. There were 13 proceeded charges, with the remainder taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing. Of the 13 proceeded charges, five were charges of criminal intimidation by anonymous communication punishable under s 507 of the Penal Code (“PC”), brought in respect of the appellant’s communications to the first set of victims. The remaining eight proceeded charges were for harassment by threatening communication punishable under s 3(2) of the Protection from Harassment Act (“POHA”), brought in respect of the communications made to the second set of victims. 
The decision below
8     The appellant pleaded guilty in the State Courts. The District Judge ordered a sentence of ten months’ imprisonment per s 507 PC charge, taking into account the fact that the appellant had been motivated by malice and greed; had displaced a high degree of premeditation in using pseudonyms and untraceable email accounts; had caused generalised anxiety to the victims; and had cynically misused confidential information acquired in the course of his work as an insurance agent. The only mitigating factor was the appellant’s plea of guilt. 
9     The District Judge also ordered a sentence of three months’ imprisonment per s 3(2) POHA charge, noting that these communications had attracted media attention and became the subject of public advisories issued by the police and a Member of Parliament. 
10     The District Judge chose to run the sentences for two s 507 PC charges and three s 3(2) POHA charges consecutively, which yielded an aggregate sentence of 29 months’ imprisonment. 
The Hight Court's decision
Sentencing framework for s 507 PC offences
11     The Prosecution invited the High Court to endorse the sentencing matrix it had put forward to the District Judge, which the District Judge had accepted. It was contended that this sentencing matrix appropriately isolated the two principal parameters of harm and culpability which would allow a sentencing court to accurately gauge the seriousness of the crime. The High Court determined that a sentencing matrix was not the appropriate framework given the difficulty in isolating the principal factual elements of an s 507 PC offence. There were a wide range of situations that might be captured by the offence-creating provision in s 503 PC, and also a wide range of means by which anonymous communications could be made for the purposes of s 507 PC. The High Court therefore determined that a different sentencing framework, modelled on its earlier decision in Logachev Vladislav v PP [2018] 4 SLR 409, was appropriate: at [30], [43] to [46]. 
12     The first step of this framework involved accounting for the offence-specific factors in the case. The High Court set out a non-exhaustive table of relevant offence-specific factors (at [47]):
 






Offence-specific factors


 




 


 


Factors going towards harm


 



 


 


Factors going towards culpability


 




 


The degree of alarm caused, or the extent to which the recipient was compelled to perform acts against his will or to refrain from exercising his rights

 



Public disquiet 



 



Physical harm occasioned by the threat



 


 


 


 



 


The degree of planning and premeditation

 



The level of sophistication 



 



The duration of offending



 



Abuse of position and breach of trust



 



The offender’s motive in committing the offence



 



The degree to which the offender exploited his anonymity to cause alarm



 


 


13     The framework also involved identifying relevant offender-specific factors, and the High Court set out a table of such factors as well (at [59]): 







Offender-specific factors


 




 


 


Aggravating factors


 



 


 


Mitigating factors


 




 


Offences taken into consideration for sentencing purposes 

 



Relevant antecedents



 



Evident lack of remorse



 


 



 


A guilty plea 

 


 



Co-operation with the authorities



 


 


14     With the above factors in mind, the High Court set out a five-step sentencing framework for s 507 PC offences. The first step involved the identification of offence-specific factors that went towards harm and culpability: at [63]. 
15     The second step involved the identification of the indicative sentencing range for the offence in question, using the following sentencing matrix (at [64] and [65]): 




 Harm
 
 
Culpability


 
Slight
 


Moderate


Severe




 
Low
 


Fine or 0–6 months’ imprisonment


6–12 months’ imprisonment


12–24 months’ imprisonment




 
Medium
 


6–12 months’ imprisonment


12–24 months’ imprisonment


24–36 months’ imprisonment




High


12–24 months’ imprisonment


24–36 months’ imprisonment


36–48 months’ imprisonment 




16     The third step involved identifying the indicative starting point within the sentencing range that had been chosen. The fourth step involved making adjustments to the indicative starting point to account for offender-specific factors. And the last step involved making further adjustments to take into account the totality principle: at [66] to [68]. 
17     The High Court applied the sentencing framework to the facts of this case. The appellant’s culpability was determined to be “high”, given that the appellant (1) was motivated by malice and greed; (2) displayed a high degree of planning and premeditation involving the use of sophisticated technological measures to preserve anonymity and evade detection; (3) abused his position as an insurance agent and (4) exploited his anonymity to maximise alarm to his victims: at [70] to [76]. The level of harm caused was “slight”, because all that had been occasioned was alarm to the victims: at [77] and [79]. This analysis meant that the appropriate sentencing range was 12 to 24 months’ imprisonment per charge, and within this range, an appropriate indicative starting point was 18 months’ imprisonment per charge: at [80]. Only one offender-specific factor applied, which was the appellant’s plea of guilt, which merited a reduction in sentence to 16 months’ imprisonment per charge: at [85]. 
Sentences for s 3(2) POHA charges
18     The High Court determined that the sentence of three months’ imprisonment per charge was an appropriate indicative sentence for the s 3(2) POHA offences. The District Judge had rightly taken into account (1) the alarm caused to the victims; (2) the significant public disquiet caused; (3) the appellant’s serial offending; and (4) the fact that the harassing communications had been made anonymously: at [88] and [89]. 
Aggregate sentence
19     The High Court determined that the District Judge was right to run the sentences for two s 507 PC offences and three s 3(2) POHA offences consecutively. This appropriately accounted for the high level of overall criminality in this case: at [95]. 
20     That said, the indicative sentences that had been derived earlier in the sentencing analysis would have to be adjusted downwards to account for the totality principle, which applied at the last step of the sentencing analysis and required the court to assess whether the aggregate sentence was appropriate. Given that five sentences were being made to run consecutively, the sentences for the s 507 PC offences would have been adjusted downwards to 14 months’ imprisonment per charge; and the sentences for the s 3(2) POHA offences would have been reduced to two months’ imprisonment per charge: at [96] and [97]. This would have yielded an aggregate sentence of 34 months’ imprisonment per charge. It followed that the 29-month sentence ordered by the District Judge might, if anything, have been on the low side: at [97]. 
21     However, because the Prosecution did not cross-appeal, the High Court decided not to order a higher sentence. Instead, the High Court dismissed the appeal, and ordered the aggregate sentence of 29 months’ imprisonment to stand: at [98] and [99]. 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
 
