

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


13 September 2019


Case summary



The Enterprise Fund III Ltd and others v OUE Lippo Healthcare Ltd
(formerly known as International Healthway Corp Ltd)

[2019] SGCA 48 


Civil Appeal No 119 of 2018


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon)



Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses appeal and upholds High Court’s
decision that the respondent’s indirect acquisition of its own shares by
way of a three-step transaction with the appellants contravened the
prohibition against a company acquiring its own shares and was therefore
void.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:




    Even those parts of a transaction that are not the final or most
    proximate step in a series of steps taken to effect a company’s
    acquisition of its own shares might nonetheless be caught by the
    prohibition in s 76(1A)(a)(i) of the Companies Act against
    a company acquiring its own shares if they are sufficiently
    proximate to the share acquisition. Whether there is sufficient
    proximity depends on the commercial substance of the transaction:
    at [50]–[52].
    



    Section 76A(1A) of the Companies Act, which saves a share
    acquisition that is prohibited by s 76(1A)(a)(i) from
    being made void if it involves a “disposition of book-entry
    securities”, applies only where there is a transfer of shares
    involving a change in the legal title to the shares: at            [98]–[103].
    



Background to the appeal
1     The respondent (“IHC”) is a company incorporated in Singapore and
listed on the Catalist board of the Singapore Exchange (“SGX”). The
appellants (the “Crest Funds”) are three investment funds under the
Crest umbrella of companies (“Crest entities”).
        
2     In early April 2015, IHC, after noticing an unusual sale pattern of
its shares, considered that there was a high probability that it
would be the subject of a short-selling attack. To defend IHC
against such an attack, IHC’s representative, Mr Andrew Aathar (“Mr
Aathar”), asked the Crest entities to provide a standby facility of
$20m for use against the attack.
        
3     The Crest entities agreed to this, and a standby facility agreement
(the “Standby Facility Agreement”) was entered into, by which a
standby facility in the principal amount of $20m (the “Standby
Facility”) was made available to IHC. Various security agreements
securing the Standby Facility (the “supporting security
agreements”) were also entered into. The Crest entities which were
the original parties to the Standby Facility Agreement were later
replaced by the Crest Funds.
 
4     Mr Aathar suggested to the Crest entities that instead of
disbursing the funds under the Standby Facility to IHC to be paid
to a broker to fund the purchase of IHC shares, the Crest entities
could purchase the shares on IHC’s behalf through their own broker.
The Crest entities’ representative, Mr Tan Yang Hwee (“Mr Tan”),
agreed to this approach as it seemed to avoid a circuitous
arrangement and also gave the Crest entities additional security in
respect of drawdowns on the Standby Facility.
        
5     Between 16 April and 24 August 2015, the first appellant (“EFIII”)
made 14 drawdowns on the Standby Facility, amounting in total to
$17,332,081.15, to purchase IHC shares on the open market. Each of
those acquisitions (the “open market acquisitions”) was made at the
behest and on the instructions of Mr Aathar on IHC’s behalf. The
IHC shares purchased by EFIII were held on trust for IHC (the
“trust arrangement”).
        
6     On 9 September 2015, SGX issued an announcement advising
shareholders and potential investors to exercise caution in dealing
with IHC shares as it appeared that connected parties were trading
IHC shares amongst themselves. IHC’s share price plummeted as a
result. Following this announcement, IHC defaulted on the Standby
Facility.
        
7     On 23 January 2017, IHC’s board of directors was removed in its
entirety by IHC’s shareholders. After taking over control of IHC,
the new board discovered that the transaction by which IHC acquired
its own shares (the “Transaction”) contravened the Companies Act
(Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (the “CA”). On 8 March 2017, IHC gave the
Crest Funds written notice that it wished to avoid the acquisition
of its shares by EFIII and the Standby Facility. The Crest Funds
replied through their solicitors denying that the share acquisition
and the Standby Facility were void or voidable.
        
8     IHC then commenced an action in the High Court for declarations
that the Standby Facility and the supporting security agreements
(collectively, the “loan agreements”) as well as EFIII’s
acquisition of IHC shares on IHC’s behalf were voidable, and had
been avoided by way of IHC’s written notice of 8 March 2017.
        

The decision below
9     The High Court judge (“the Judge”) found that the Transaction
comprised three components. First, there was the trust arrangement,
by which EFIII held the IHC shares which it purchased on the open
market on trust for IHC. Second, there were the open market
acquisitions, by which EFIII acquired IHC shares. Third, there were
the loan agreements, by which funds were made available to IHC to
acquire its own shares.
        
10     The Judge held that the trust arrangement and the open market
acquisitions contravened the prohibition in s 76(1A)(a)(i)
of the CA against a company acquiring, “whether directly or
indirectly, in any way”, its own shares, but the open market
acquisitions were saved by s 76A(1A) from being made void pursuant
to s 76A(1)(a). The loan agreements were voidable under s
76A(2) for being related to the prohibited acquisition of IHC
shares, and had been avoided by IHC by way of its written notice of
8 March 2017. IHC thus bore no contractual obligation or liability
whatsoever to the Crest Funds in respect of the Transaction.
        

The Court of Appeal’s decision


Characterisation of the Transaction
11     The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) began by examining the ambit of a
prohibited indirect acquisition by a company of its own shares for
the purposes of s 76(1A)(a)(i). It held that even those
parts of a transaction that were not the final or most proximate
step in a series of steps taken to effect a company’s acquisition
of its own shares might nonetheless be caught by the prohibition if
they were sufficiently proximate to the intended outcome of the
company acquiring its own shares. Whether there was sufficient
proximity would depend on the commercial substance of the
transaction, which would necessarily be fact-specific and vary from
case to case: at [50]–[52].
        
12     In assessing the commercial substance of an impugned transaction,
it was useful to consider the rationale behind the prohibition in s
76(1A)(a)(i). There were two core strands within the
rationale, namely, maintenance of a company’s share capital and
protection of its assets. A transaction which caused a company’s
capital and/or assets to be depleted or put at risk would readily
be found to be caught by the prohibition and rendered void by s
76A(1)(a). That said, given the wide language used in s
76(1A)(a)(i), a transaction might still be found to be
caught by the prohibition even if it did not deplete or put at risk
a company’s capital and/or assets: at [53],            [63] and [64].
 
13In this case, the entire Transaction, comprising the loan
agreements, the open market acquisitions and the trust arrangement,
constituted a single, composite transaction that was caught by the
prohibition in s 76(1A)(a)(i). It was clear that the trust
arrangement and the open market acquisitions stood together as a
matter of commercial substance. Each of the 14 drawdowns on the
Standby Facility was used to purchase IHC shares, and each of those
share purchases was made at the behest and on the instructions of
Mr Aathar representing IHC. The loan agreements, too, were
inseparable from the open market acquisitions and the trust
arrangement. This was because the Crest Funds knew from the outset
that the Standby Facility would be used to purchase IHC shares, and
this purpose was carried into effect by one of the Crest Funds
itself, when EFIII executed IHC’s instructions, as given by Mr
Aathar, to purchase IHC shares. Without the loan agreements having
been entered into, IHC would not have been put in funds to purchase
its own shares. Hence, the Transaction as a whole was void pursuant
to s 76A(1)(a), subject to any part being saved by s
76A(1A): at [66]–[69] and            [73]–[83].
        



The scope of the saving provision in s 76A(1A) of the CA
        
14     The Court then considered the saving provision in s 76A(1A) of the
CA, which dis-applies the voiding provision in s 76A(1)(a)
in respect of “disposition[s] of book-entry securities”. The Court
examined the legislative history and the text of s 76A(1A), and was
satisfied that the provision had a very specific provenance lying
in a suite of amendments intended to put into effect the
introduction of a scripless trading system, namely, the Central
Depository System: at [95].
      
15     The Court held that s 76A(1A) applied only to the open market
acquisitions of IHC shares, but, contrary to the Crest Funds’
contention, not to the trust arrangement. This was because a
“disposition” within the meaning of s 76A(1A) entailed a change in
the legal title to the shares or securities concerned. The trust
arrangement did not involve any such transfer of legal title as IHC
was never given the legal title to the IHC shares which EFIII
purchased on the open market: at [97]–            [103].
        


IHC was not estopped from avoiding the loan agreements
16     The Court turned finally to consider the Crest Funds’ argument that
IHC was estopped from avoiding the loan agreements by virtue of
certain representations it had made in the Standby Facility
Agreement that: (a) the entry into the Standby Facility Agreement
would not contravene any laws; and (b) it would take all necessary
steps to enable it lawfully to enter into the Standby Facility: at            [110]–[112].
        
17     The Court held that IHC was not estopped from avoiding the loan
agreements. To permit such an estoppel to apply would be to allow
the estoppel impermissibly to operate in defiance of a statute, in
that the estoppel would have the effect of creating a state of
affairs where the Transaction was not void when s 76A(1)(a
) clearly made it void (apart from the open market acquisitions,
which were saved by s 76A(1A)): at [122] and            [126].
        

Conclusion
18     The result was that the entire Transaction amounted to a prohibited
indirect acquisition by IHC of its own shares, which contravened s
76(1A)(a)(i) and was made void by s 76A(1)(a),
with the exception of the open market acquisitions, which were
saved by s 76A(1A). The practical result of this was that EFIII was
the legal and beneficial owner of the IHC shares it acquired
through the open market acquisitions, and IHC owed no contractual
obligations or liability to the Crest Funds under the loan
agreements as they were void: at [134] and            [136].
        
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the
Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the
Court’s judgment.
            
