
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE5 May 2023Case summaryRe Suria Shaik Aziz [2023] SGHC 129General Division of the High Court – Admission of Advocates and Solicitors No 530 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: The General Division of the High Court granted leave to the applicant to withdraw his application for admission, subject to his undertaking not to bring a fresh application for admission to the roll of Advocates and Solicitors in Singapore or to the bar in any other jurisdiction for a period of four months from the date of the hearing on 11 April 2023. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  Where an applicant has committed one or more incidents of wrongdoing prior to his application to be admitted to the roll of Advocates and Solicitors in Singapore, the court and the stakeholders must assess whether the applicant has sufficiently reflected on his wrongdoing and gained sufficient insight into how and why he had gone wrong so as to provide adequate assurance that the issue has been recognised and is not likely to recur: at [22].•  The purpose of deferment in admission applications is rehabilitative, not punitive. The need for deferment, its appropriate duration, and where it has expired, its efficacy, must all be carefully assessed in every case: at [23].•  An applicant who seeks to be part called should disclose in his affidavit for his part call application any prior misconduct that may affect his suitability to practice. A failure to do so may be relevant to the court’s determination regarding the transparency of his disclosures: at [39] to [41].Background to the application and material facts1 The applicant, Mr Suria Shaik Aziz (the “Applicant”), graduated from the University of Tasmania (the “University”). In 2016, during his last semester at the University, he took the International Trade Law module (the “Module”) under Professor Anja Hilkemeijer (“Professor Hilkemeijer”), for which he had to submit a research paper that accounted for 60% of his grade for the Module (the “Research Paper”). 2 On 13 September 2016, the Applicant submitted a research outline (the “Research Outline”) for the Research Paper. The Research Outline was not a graded assignment, but a preparatory submission required by Professor Hilkemeijer to ensure the viability of the eventual paper. 3 The Research Outline was screened by “Turnitin”, an internet-based plagiarism detection service used by the University, which revealed that the Applicant had copied certain material from the internet without attributing its source. Professor Hilkemeijer informed the Applicant that there was “massive copying” in his Research Outline and warned him about the severe consequences of plagiarism (“the Research Outline incident”)4 On 28 October 2016, the Applicant submitted the Research Paper, after he had been granted some time extensions by Professor Hilkemeijer on account of some medical issues that he had to deal with at the time. The Turnitin report for his Research Paper revealed a similarity index of 42% which suggested that a significant portion of his Research Paper was lifted from the internet. This prompted Professor Margaret Otlowski (“Professor Otlowski”), the Head of School of the University’s Faculty of Law at the material time, to investigate the matter.5 On 3 November 2016, the Applicant met Professor Otlowski and explained that he had been rushing to meet the deadline for the Research Paper and that he did not have sufficient time to complete his referencing when he uploaded his incomplete research paper. He also told her that he had no malicious intention to pass off anyone else’s work as his own. These explanations were not accepted by Professor Otlowski.6 On 4 November 2016, Professor Otlowski informed the Applicant by way of a letter (the “Letter”) that his actions amounted to academic misconduct. She noted in the Letter that “whole paragraphs had been adopted, in some cases with minor rewording, from website sources with no acknowledgment, and in other cases, only indirect acknowledgment” and that the Applicant had been given “repeated warnings about plagiarism, including from the unit coordinator in response to earlier drafts”. 7 As a result of his academic misconduct, the Applicant received a letter of formal reprimand from the University and had to submit a revised research paper (the “Revised Paper”). The University’s records revealed no other finding of academic or general misconduct against the Applicant.  The Applicant had since graduated from the University and completed his Part A and Part B examinations satisfactorily, without any complaints of dishonesty or misconduct.8 On 13 June 2022, the Applicant applied to be admitted as an advocate and solicitor in Singapore. On 20 June 2022, the Applicant applied to be part called under s 32(3) of the Legal Profession Act 1966 (“LPA”) (the “Part Call Application”). He did not disclose the plagiarism incident in his affidavit for his Part Call Application (the “Part Call Affidavit”). His Part Call Application was granted on 12 July 2022.9 On 19 September 2022, the Applicant filed his affidavit for admission (the “Admission Affidavit”) in which he disclosed that he had received a letter of formal reprimand from the University in 2016 for failing to acknowledge the sources in his Research Paper. Upon the Attorney-General Chambers’ (“AGC”) request for more information, the Applicant filed a supplementary affidavit on 29 September 2022 (the “Supplementary Affidavit”) in which he explained that he had to deal with some health issues in 2016 and did not have sufficient time to complete his referencing in his Research Paper. He did not mention the Research Outline incident in both his admission affidavits. 10 The Applicant’s admission hearing was initially fixed on 12 October 2022. On 4 October 2022, upon the AGC’s application, the court adjourned the hearing for one month for the AGC to contact the University and further investigate the matter. On 26 October 2022, the AGC filed its Notice of Objection and requested the Applicant to apply to adjourn his application for four months from 9 November 2022. The Applicant agreed and accordingly applied to adjourn his admission hearing. His admission application was refixed to be heard on 11 April 2022. By then, the AGC, the Law Society of Singapore (“Law Society”) and the Singapore Institute of Legal Education (“SILE”) (collectively, the “Stakeholders”) indicated that they no longer had any objections to his application.The decision of the Court 11  The Court found that the Applicant was not a fit and proper person to be admitted as at the date of his admission hearing. Even though the Applicant maintained a clean record for several years since his act of plagiarism in 2016, he continued to demonstrate a lack of appreciation or insight as to the ethical implications of his misconduct even until the time of his admission hearing. The Court granted leave to the Applicant to withdraw his application, subject to his undertaking not to bring a fresh application for admission to the roll of Advocates and Solicitors in Singapore or to the bar in any other jurisdiction for a period of four months from the date of the hearing on 11 April 2023: at [1] and [22].12 The Court rejected the Applicant’s explanation that he did not know that he was passing the work of others as his own when he submitted the Research Paper. This was because the Applicant (a) knew he had copied a significant amount of materials from the internet in his Research Paper; (b) knew he did not provide proper citations for these materials; and (c) understood the express warnings from Professor Hilkemeijer about the consequences of plagiarism for the Research Outline. These suggested the Applicant must have known he was passing the work of others as his own when he submitted the Research Paper: at [29].13 The true essence of the Applicant’s misconduct was, therefore, either (a) a lack of integrity for intending to deceive the University that the plagiarised materials were in fact his own work; or (b) a failure to apprehend the ethical implications of his actions, these being implications that any reasonable lawyer, whether qualified or aspiring, ought to see. The Court gave the Applicant the benefit of the doubt and found that it was the latter: at [30] and [31].14 The Applicant repeatedly characterized his misconduct as the submission of an incomplete paper due to a lack of time. He maintained this position when confronted by Professor Otlowski during the initial investigations by the University and in his affidavits for his admission application. However, this missed the true impropriety of his misconduct, which was that he copied significant portions of his Research Paper from internet sources and presented them as his own analytical content. There was simply no room to view his misconduct as a lack of academic diligence. The Court therefore found that the Applicant was seeking to downplay his culpability, or at the very least, that he had not gained any insight about the ethical implications of his misconduct, which was a serious impediment to his readiness to be called to the bar: at [28], [34] and [37].15 The Court also noted the Applicant did not disclose his misconduct in his Part Call Affidavit but disregarded this point given that the existing practice did not appear to require such disclosure for part call applications. However, the Court clarified that future applicants who wish to be part called should disclose in their part call affidavits any prior misconduct that may affect their suitability to practice. This is because a part call application, if granted, essentially allows the applicant to appear before a judge or registrar and to assist in the administration of justice. It is therefore paramount that the Court and the Stakeholders, as gatekeepers of the legal profession, be availed of all relevant information of the applicant’s character when determining whether to consent to the part call application: at [39] and [40].16 The Court reiterated that the purpose of deferment in admission applications is rehabilitative, not punitive. The need for deferment, its appropriate duration, and where it has expired, its efficacy, must all be carefully assessed in every case. The question for the Court and the Stakeholders to consider is not whether an applicant has been sufficiently punished for her misconduct, but rather, whether that applicant has sufficiently reformed her character issues and demonstrated her suitability to shoulder the weighty responsibilities that come with being an Advocate and Solicitor in Singapore: at [23].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
