
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 July 2019
Case summary
Chan Lie Sian v Public Prosecutor [2019]
SGCA 44
Criminal Appeal No. 25 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: CoA allows appeal against conviction
and sentencing on murder charge.
Pertinent
and significant points of the judgment


Appellant’s
    conviction under s 300(a) of the
    Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the PC”) substituted with a conviction
    under s 300(c) of the PC as the
    totality of the circumstances showed that the appellant did not have a specific
    intention to kill the victim (at [70],
    [77], and [83]).


Appellant
    sentenced to life imprisonment and not death as the manner in which the
    appellant acted did not evince a blatant disregard for human life (at [86] and [93]).


 
Introduction
1          This
was an appeal against the conviction and sentencing of the appellant on a
charge of murder.
 
Background to the appeal
2          On
14 January 2014, the appellant discovered that some of his money was missing.
His suspicions turned to the victim, who was working for him as a pimp. The
appellant called the victim and asked him to meet at the appellant’s lodging
house.
3          When
the victim arrived, he denied taking the money. The victim and appellant then
began to fight. At some point during the fight, the appellant took hold of a
metal dumbbell rod, with which he hit the victim several times on his head and
body. About 15 minutes after the fight had started, the victim was left
bleeding on the bed in one of the bedrooms (“Bedroom 1”).
4          The
appellant then called another member of his staff, Chua Thiam Hock (“Chua”),
and asked him to come to the lodging house. 
When he arrived, Chua was similarly accused of stealing the appellant’s
money and on denying it, he was attacked with the rod.  The appellant ordered Chua to go into Bedroom
1 and see what the consequences would be of stealing from him. In Chua’s
presence, the appellant then again hit the victim with the rod, save that he
did not hit his head. Each time he was hit, the victim would groan faintly.
5          The
appellant later received a call from Aw Teck Huat (“Aw”), a member of the
secret society of which both the appellant and the victim were members. The
appellant told Aw that he had beaten up the victim for stealing his money.
6          At
about 2.30pm, Gan Soon Chai (“Gan”), reported for work at the lodging
house.  The appellant told Gan that he
had beaten the victim for stealing his money, and showed Gan the rod he had
used. Gan called another of the appellant’s staff members, Tan Keok Ling
(“Tan”), and asked him to come to the lodging house.
7          When
Tan arrived at the lodging house at about 3.40pm, the appellant showed Tan the
rod he had used, told Tan that he had beaten the victim for stealing his money,
and asked Tan to look at the victim in Bedroom 1.
8          The
appellant then instructed Chua to fetch a pail of water to clean the blood off
the victim’s body.  Chua, however, was
unable to do so because of his injuries. The appellant then splashed a pail of
water on the victim, accusing him of pretending to be dead.
9          When
Tan admonished the appellant for hurting the victim so badly, the appellant
threatened to hit him again when he regained consciousness. Tan called Aw,
hoping that he might prevail upon the appellant not to do so. He also told the
appellant that an ambulance should be called but the appellant threatened to
beat up Tan if he were to do so. The appellant further instructed Gan to
dispose of the rod. 
10        At
about 5pm, Koh Tzer Jiiun (“Koh”), another member of the secret society,
arrived at the lodging house. He checked the victim and told Aw that an
ambulance should be called. Aw then called his friend Tan Teng Huat (“T H Tan”)
and asked him to bring the victim to the hospital.
11        The
appellant, however, refused to allow T H Tan to bring the victim to the
hospital. The appellant told T H Tan that he had beaten the victim for stealing
his money, and offered to let T H Tan see him. T H Tan declined and instead
called for an ambulance. When he learnt that an ambulance was on its way, the
appellant instructed Chua and Tan to carry the victim to the front porch. He
later told the police that he had found the victim by the roadside and had then
called for the ambulance and brought the victim to his front porch.
12        On
arrival at the hospital, the victim was found to be suffering from skull
fractures.  He passed away seven days
later. In the meantime, the appellant had surrendered himself to the police and
was charged for voluntarily causing grievous hurt with a dangerous weapon. When
the victim passed away, the charge was amended to one for murder.
13        
The appellant was convicted in the High Court of one count of murder under s
300(a) of the PC and sentenced to
death under s 302(1) of the PC. He appealed against both the conviction and the
sentence.
 
Decision on appeal 
14        The
Court of Appeal allowed the appellant’s appeal against conviction and sentence.
For the appellant to have been convicted under s 300(a) of the PC, he must have done the act by which death was caused
with the specific intention to cause death. The court found that the appellant
did not have a specific intention to kill the victim. With no witnesses around
and with the victim lying helpless on the bed, the appellant had every
opportunity to bring any such intention to kill to fruition. Yet, he did not do
so even though the victim was clearly alive. Further, if the appellant had
intended to kill the victim, it would have been entirely against his interest
for him to have openly admitted to what had transpired to Chua, Aw, Gan, Tan,
Koh, and T H Tan. Although the appellant took some initial steps to conceal his
involvement in the victim’s injuries, those attempts were equally consistent
with his having an intention to severely injure rather than specifically to
kill the victim. Finally, if the appellant had attacked the victim intending to
kill him, it would have made no sense for him to have later: (i) tried to
revive him; (ii) accused him of feigning death; or (iii) said that he would
attack him again when he regained consciousness (at [67] and [70]–[75]).
15        The
court then turned to consider whether the appellant should be convicted under s
300(c) of the PC. The ingredients of
murder under s 300(c) were that: (i)
death had been caused to a person by an act of the accused person; (ii) the act
resulting in bodily injury was done with the intention of causing that bodily
injury to the victim; and (iii) the bodily injury intended to be inflicted was
sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death (at [78]–[79]).
16        The
court was satisfied that all three ingredients under s 300(c) were made out beyond a reasonable doubt. First, it was no longer
disputed that the appellant caused the victim’s death. Second, the appellant
intended to cause the relevant bodily injury to the victim. The court wholly
rejected any suggestion that the blows to the victim’s head were accidental and
that argument, in any case, was not pursued by the appellant on appeal.
Finally, the victim’s skull fractures, caused by the appellant, were sufficient
in the ordinary course of nature to cause death (at [81]–[82]).
17        The
court was equally satisfied that the appellant could not avail himself of the
partial defence of sudden fight. The three elements of the partial defence of
sudden fight were: (i) a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden
quarrel; (ii) an absence of premeditation; and (iii) an absence of undue
advantage or cruel or unusual acts. The appellant held an undue advantage over
the victim given that he was armed with a lethal weapon and further enjoyed a
considerable physical advantage by virtue of his physique. Moreover, the
appellant attacked the victim relentlessly continuing even when the victim was
weakened and had been overpowered. The court therefore substituted the
appellant’s conviction under s 300(a)
of the PC with a conviction under s 300(c)
of the PC (at [80] and [83]).
18        The
court observed that s 302(2) of the PC afforded the courts a discretion to
sentence an accused person convicted under s 300(c) of the PC to either life imprisonment and caning, or death. The
death penalty was warranted where the actions of the offender outraged the
feelings of the community, and this would be the case where these actions
exhibited viciousness or a blatant disregard for human life (at [84]).
19        The
court was not satisfied that the manner in which the appellant acted evinced
that blatant disregard for human life. First, the court found that the
appellant was not aware at the time of the attack or in its immediate
aftermath, of the fatal nature of the victim’s injuries. Indeed, the
appellant’s unchallenged testimony was that he did not know that the injuries
were so severe as to be likely to cause the victim’s death. His testimony was
also consistent with his conduct at the time. After the attack, the appellant:
(i) became upset at the victim for feigning death; and (ii) said that he would
attack the victim again when he regained consciousness. The appellant further
surrendered himself to the police precisely because he thought that the
victim’s injuries were not fatal, and expected that he would be and was in fact
initially charged with an offence under s 326 of the PC. Given that the appellant
honestly believed that the victim’s injuries were not fatal, the appellant’s
acts of: (i) preventing the witnesses from obtaining medical attention for the
victim; and (ii) parading the victim’s body to show the consequences of
offending the appellant were therefore insufficient to demonstrate that the
appellant acted in blatant disregard for human life (at [86]–[88]).
20        Second,
the court rejected the Prosecution’s submission that the appellant wanted the
victim to suffer as much as possible. Had the appellant harboured such a
desire, the principal attack would not have lasted only 15 minutes and the impacts
to the victim’s head would not have almost entirely been of only mild to
moderate force (at [89]).
21        Finally,
although the evidence was that the victim would have been incapacitated by the
blow which caused the skull fractures, it was not possible to make a finding on
whether the incapacitating blow was delivered before the other blows to the
victim’s head, in which case the other blows would have been gratuitous, or
after, in which case the same could not be said (at [92]).
22        On
this basis, the court allowed the appeal and sentenced the appellant to life
imprisonment (at [94]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
