
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 July 2019
Case summary
[Akfel Commodities Turkey Holding Anonim
Sirketi v Townsend, Adam
[2019] SGCA 43
Civil Appeal No 116 of 2018
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Justice Chao Hick Tin):
Outcome: CoA dismisses the defendant’s appeal
against the decision by the High Court, on a summary judgment application of
the plaintiff, granting it only conditional leave to defend. 
1          This
was an appeal against the High Court’s decision that granted the defendant conditional leave to defend. The
defendant argued that the leave to defend should be unconditional instead.
Dismissing the appeal, the Court of Appeal upheld the decision to grant conditional leave to defend. In its decision,
the Court of Appeal discussed the circumstances under which conditional leave
to defend should appropriately be granted and the applicable principles. 
 
Material Facts
2          The
appellant, Akfel Commodities Turkey Holding Anonim Sirketi (“Akfel”), is the
main holding company for a group of companies known as the Akfel Group, which
is in the business of trading gas and power in Turkey. The Akfel Group was
owned by two Turkish brothers, Mr Mehmet Fatih Baltaci and Mr Murad Abdurrahman
Baltaci (“MFB” and “MAB” respectively and hereinafter collectively called “the
Baltaci Brothers”) at all material times before end of 2015. In December 2015, they transferred all
their shares in Akfel to Akfel Commodities Pte Ltd (“Akfel Singapore”). The
respondent, Mr Adam Townsend, who is the plaintiff in Suit No 329 of 2017, is a
consultant who provides consultancy services to major energy companies around
the world. Mr Townsend provided consultancy services to the Akfel Group on a
non-exclusive basis since 2009, and in exchange, he received monthly retainer
fees, bonuses and was reimbursed for his expenses: [3] and [4].
3          Mr
Townsend’s case was that, on or about 14 March 2016, another oral agreement was
reached between MFB and him where on account of his enhanced involvement in the
management of the Akfel Group, his monthly retainer fee would be increased.
At that time, MFB was the
Chairman, a director and the majority shareholder of Akfel Singapore, which
fully owned Akfel. The oral agreement was later incorporated into a written
Consultancy Agreement which was executed between Mr Townsend and Akfel. By a
Deed of Guarantee, Akfel Singapore guaranteed Akfel’s performance of the
Consultancy Agreement. The Consultancy Agreement provided, inter alia, that in exchange for Mr Townsend’s services to the
Akfel Group, he was to paid €45,000 per month on a quarterly basis and was, as
before, to be reimbursed for his reasonable expenses. The Consultancy Agreement
was to commence on 1 August 2016 and run for five years unless terminated as
provided for by the terms of the agreement or by Akfel giving at least 24
months’ written notice or by Mr Townsend giving at least 12 months’ notice. If
Akfel terminated the Consultancy Agreement without cause, Akfel was to pay Mr
Townsend liquidated damages equal to 24 months of his retainer (ie, €1,080,000): [5].
4          Mr
Townsend claimed that Akfel had breached the Consultancy Agreement by
terminating it on 16 March 2017. Akfel’s primary defence was that the
Consultancy Agreement was a sham
contract – it was intended to operate as a device through which Mr Townsend
would be compensated for agreeing to act as an intermediary of the Baltaci
Brothers in furtherance of a scheme whereby the Baltaci Brothers would attempt
to retain and exercise control over the affairs of Akfel and the Akfel Group
whilst at the same time concealing their involvement in the said scheme.
Further, Akfel averred that the Consultancy Agreement was concluded in
furtherance of an illegal venture,
designed to avoid or circumvent the consequences under Turkish law in respect
of the Baltaci Brothers’ suspected involvement with the Gulenist Terror
Organisation/Parallel State Structure (“FETO/PDY”) and/or the failed coup in
Turkey that took place in July 2016: [6].

5          The
background for Akfel’s contentions is the coup launched by FETO/PDY against the
Turkish government in July 2016, which failed. In response, the Istanbul Chief
Public Prosecutor’s Office commenced investigations to identify persons who
financed FETO/PDY in the coup attempt. The Istanbul Chief Public Prosecutor’s
Office applied for and obtained an injunction from the Istanbul courts on 18
August 2016 (“the August 2016 Injunction”) for the confiscation of assets owned
by various persons, including those of the Baltaci Brothers. Against this
backdrop of political turmoil in Turkey in 2016 and 2017, various changes were
effected in Akfel. Starting from 28 March 2016, the Baltaci Brothers resigned
from the Akfel board and Mr Townsend joined the board. From March 2016 to
August 2016, the Baltaci Brothers transferred most, if not all, of their shares
in Akfel Singapore to companies in which Mr Townsend was involved. On 1
December 2016, due to findings on Akfel’s connection with the armed terrorist
organisation of FETO/PDY and its financial support of the organisation, the
Istanbul courts accepted the Istanbul Chief Public Prosecutor’s Office’s
request for the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund (SDIF) or Tasarruf Mevduati
Sigorta Fonu (“TMSF”), an entity controlled by the Turkish state, to be
appointed as trustee for Akfel (“the December 2016 Order”): [7] to [9].
6          On
17 December 2016, Mr Townsend issued Akfel an invoice for his retainer fees for
the preceding quarter which Akfel failed to pay. On 16 March 2017, TMSF’s
lawyers sent Mr Townsend a termination letter, claiming that the Consultancy
Agreement was “collusive and legally invalid”: [9].
7          In
response, Mr Townsend commenced Suit No 329 of 2017 against Akfel in April
2017, claiming liquidated damages or alternatively damages for breach of the
notice period, his retainer fees for the months of September 2016 to March 2017
(less part payment), and reimbursements of reasonable expenses. Mr Townsend’s
application for summary judgment was granted by the Assistant Registrar at
first instance. On appeal to the High Court, the judge granted Akfel leave to
defend on condition that it furnished security of $2m within six weeks (“the
Condition”). Being dissatisfied with the Condition imposed by the Judge, Akfel
appealed to this court against that part of the decision, seeking a revocation
of the Condition: [11]. 
The court's ground of decision 
8          The
relevant provisions for summary judgment are O 14 rr 3 and 4 of the Rules of
Court, and the legal principles governing the grant of summary judgment are
well settled: the power to grant summary judgment is intended only to apply to
cases where there is no doubt that a plaintiff is entitled to judgment, and
where it is inexpedient to allow a defendant to defend for mere purposes of
delay. Where there is an issue or question in dispute which ought to be tried
or there ought to be a trial for some other reason (O 14 r 3(1)), leave to
defend should be granted. Leave to defend can be conditional or unconditional: [29] to [31].
9          The
Court of Appeal disagreed with the judge in holding that there were two
distinct approaches to addressing whether summary judgment should be entered –
a “one-step approach” and a “two-step approach”. Under the “two-step approach”,
the judge said that the court must first consider whether leave to defend should
be granted; and where there was a triable issue or a reasonable probability of
a bona fide defence, then leave
should be granted. Only then, and as the second step, consideration was given
as to whether leave should be conditional or unconditional. Under the “one-step
approach”, the court had three options to choose from in relation to the
application for summary judgment – judgment, unconditional leave or conditional
leave. The Court of Appeal rejected the two-step approach and held that the
process is a single composite exercise, depending on the overall picture which
emerges to the court. If the judge is satisfied that the plaintiff has shown a prima facie case for judgment but is
also satisfied that the defendant has demonstrated a fair probability of a bona fide defence, unconditional leave
to defend should be granted. In determining whether such a demonstration has
been made by the defendant, factual assertions made by the plaintiff and not
disputed by the defendant may be taken into account by the court. But where
what the defendant has shown does not amount to a fair probability of a bona fide defence, but only that the
defence raised is not hopeless, it is warranted for the court to impose
conditional leave to defend: [14]
and [41].
10        A
consideration of summary judgment will invariably entail separate analysis of
the plaintiff’s case and the defendant’s case. Through this evaluation, the
court will form a view as to which category the case falls under: (a) there is
no issue or question in dispute which ought to be tried or that there is no
other reason for a trial of that claim (judgment should thus be entered); or
(b) there is an issue or question in dispute which ought to be tried or there
ought for some other reason to be a trial of that claim, and this latter
category is further divided into (i) circumstances warranting conditional leave
and (ii) circumstances warranting unconditional leave. The analysis for a
summary judgment issue is not sequential, but is logically a composite
examination of both the claim and the defence as a whole: [42] and [43].
11        The
Court of Appeal held that the discretion given to the court to determine
whether to grant unconditional or conditional leave to defend is wide and each
case has to be decided on its own facts. The phrase “reasonable probability of
a bona fide defence” was adopted by
precedent cases to describe situations where unconditional leave to defend was
granted. For clarity of thought, the Court of Appeal reserved the grant of
conditional leave to cases where the defendant’s evidence has not yet reached the level of showing a
reasonable probability of a bona fide
defence, a fair case for defence, reasonable grounds for setting up a defence
or a fair probability of a bona fide
defence. As for the second limb in O 14 r 3(1), where there is “some other
reason” for a claim to go to trial, a court can similarly either grant
conditional or unconditional leave to defend. The Court of Appeal rejected
counsel’s submission that conditional leave to defend could only be granted
where the word “shadowy” was used to describe the defence. Although the word
“shadowy” has often been used to describe a defence that warrants conditional
leave to defend, such a finding is not necessary in order to grant conditional
leave: [49] to [53]. 
12        
On the facts, although the judge found that Akfel had shown “a reasonable
probability that it has a bona fide
defence” (a finding that should warrant unconditional leave to defend), he had understood
the phrase to encompass all situations where leave to defend should be granted
in what he termed as a two-step approach. He had explained to the parties that
he had used the phrase in that sense, and had clarified that he found the case
to fall “below the standard of a merely weak defence [and] squarely into the
realm of a defence which warranted the grant of conditional leave to defend”.
In the light of his clarifications, the Court of Appeal found that his use of
the phrase, “a reasonable probability that it has a bona fide defence”, to be immaterial to the correctness of his
decision in granting conditional leave: [54].
13        The
Court of Appeal found that the judge did not err in his exercise of discretion
in imposing the Condition. The judge did not err in placing weight on the fact
that Akfel did not adduce any evidence from its employees who had interacted
with Mr Townsend to substantiate its defence of sham and the inconsistency
between documents filed by Akfel. The overarching character of Akfel’s defence
was its lack of evidence and its case was built on mere suspicions. Akfel’s
argument that Mr Townsend did not strictly follow the terms of the Consultancy
Agreement did not help its case because non-compliance did not indicate sham. Its
reliance on Mr Townsend’s
decision not to claim for damages from Akfel Singapore under the Deed of
Guarantee did not advance Akfel’s case either: [55] to [61].
14        The
Court of Appeal also dismissed Akfel’s submission in the alternative that the
non-fulfilment of the Condition should not lead to judgment for the full amount
claimed because part of the reimbursements was incurred before the commencement
of the Consultancy Agreement. The judge had given an overall assessment of the
evidence adduced and arguments made in deciding to order security of a
substantial sum. The Court of Appeal saw no error in his decision to assess the
claim in its entirety. Further, it was not in dispute that under the previous
oral agreement Mr Townsend was also entitled to reimbursement of his expenses
incurred and was in fact so reimbursed. In his Statement of Claim, Mr Townsend
did not state that he was claiming only for expenses incurred under the
Consultancy Agreement: [66]. 
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
