
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
26 July 2019
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v Low Ji Qing [2019] SGHC 174
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9311 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: The High Court dismissed an appeal by the Prosecution against the District Judge’s decision to impose an aggregate sentence of 10 months’ imprisonment for two charges of theft. In doing so, the High Court elaborated on the principle of escalation in sentencing repeat offenders, and the principle of proportionality, particularly in respect of property offences.
Introduction


The Prosecution appealed against the District Court’s decision to impose an aggregate sentence of 10 months’ imprisonment on Mr Low Ji Qing (“the respondent”) for two proceeded charges of simple theft under section 379 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed).
 


The respondent suffered from a fetishistic disorder, specifically an abnormal sexual preference for the wallets of women. On three occasions, the respondent stole wallets from female victims while they were shopping, leading to the charges preferred against him by the Prosecution. On the first and third occasions, the respondent returned the wallets to the counter almost immediately after stealing them. On the second occasion, the respondent loitered around the scene after the theft. It was accepted that on this occasion, he had stayed rooted because he felt conflicted, intending to return the wallet. He was apprehended there and the wallet was recovered. No loss was caused on all three occasions. 
 


The respondent was assessed at the Institute of Mental Health (“IMH”) and a secondary diagnosis of “adjustment disorder with depressed mood” was made. After the first occasion of theft, the respondent voluntarily attended psychotherapy sessions with the IMH.
 


In the District Court, and on appeal, the Prosecution sought an aggregate sentence of two years’ imprisonment. Referring to the respondent’s prior antecedents for property-related offences (which stemmed from his fetishistic disorder involving the wallets of women), the Prosecution submitted that the interests of deterrence required a lengthy term of imprisonment to be imposed. The respondent had last served an aggregate sentence of three years’ imprisonment (which partially comprised two years’ imprisonment for a charge of theft of a wallet and phone from a female victim).


Although the District Judge agreed with the Prosecution that deterrence was a relevant sentencing consideration, he disagreed that the principle of escalation should apply such that the respondent should receive a sentence similar to the length of imprisonment he had last served. No loss had ultimately been caused, and given the respondent’s efforts at addressing his underlying issue, the District Judge was of the view that proportionality warranted a lower sentence.


The Prosecution was dissatisfied with the sentence and appealed. On appeal, the Prosecution argued that deterrence and the principle of escalation should take centre stage and should not be displaced by the principle of proportionality. If the respondent could not be deterred due to his fetishism, then he should be imprisoned for a long period of time for the protection of the public. Moreover, it submitted that rehabilitation was inapplicable because there was no causal link between the respondent’s fetishistic disorder and the thefts.

The High Court remarked that the respondent’s fetishism had to be considered in light of the secondary diagnosis of an adjustment disorder with depressed mood. The respondent had been seeking to fulfil his fetishism in order to gain a temporary euphoria. This in turn was used to relieve his depressive symptoms. Because the respondent’s mental disorder impaired his ability to control his desire to act on his fetishism, this somewhat reduced his culpability. However, the respondent had made a calculated choice to commit theft in order to relieve his depressed mood. As such, the District Judge was correct to have held that specific deterrence was the primary sentencing consideration (at [50]–[54]).


The High Court elaborated that when a sentencing court decided to apply the principle of escalation (which aimed at cumulatively increasing punishments to deter future offending), it had to look into whether a cycle of offending existed, and if so, what had been the trend of offending behaviour. The court had to be satisfied that the objective of preventing re-offending was in fact met by escalating the sentence length (at [58]–[59], [62] and [66]).


The High Court elaborated that:




The principle of escalation would come into play where the offender’s antecedent records displayed an escalating pattern of offending. Conversely, where the antecedents were irrelevant, where the current offences were uncharacteristic of the offender, and where the offender was unlikely to reoffend, then the principle of escalation would fade as a consideration (at [61] and [63]); and
 


The court also had to consider the offender’s capacity to appreciate the nature and quality of his offending conduct. If an offender lacked the (or had a reduced), capacity to do so (such as in some cases of mentally disordered offenders), an escalation of sentence would likely be ineffective in deterring them. However, if the current offences, or the offender’s circumstances show a capacity for premeditation, an escalation in sentence length may be justifiable and effective (at [64]–[65]).


 


A comparison between the current theft offences and the respondent’s antecedents did not show an escalating pattern of offending. There were mitigating factors in the current offences, which were absent in his antecedents. The District Judge was also right to have placed mitigating weight on the respondent’s voluntary efforts at psychotherapy. Long-term treatment was the only viable hope for desistance and efforts toward it should be acknowledged and encouraged (at [68]–[71]).



The High Court also elaborated on the principle of proportionality:




Before imposing an uplift on an offender’s previous sentence, a sentencing court had to carefully compare the gravity of the offender’s previous offending and the current offending. In this regard, it was good practice for the parties to adduce documents relevant to the offender’s antecedents including charges, statement of facts, the grounds of decision, and psychiatric reports (at [18], [74]–[76]); and
 


A sentencing court had to weigh the severity of the sentence against the gravity of the current offences in the context of the offender’s circumstances. A sentence had to be proportional to the offence committed, even after taking into account the more goal-driven considerations of deterrence, prevention, and rehabilitation. To prevent an offender from simply being used as a means to an end, proportionality was a check to ensure the ultimate sentence fit the crime (at [1], [77]–[81]).


 



In the present case, the District Judge was correct to have considered a sentence of two years’ imprisonment as disproportionate to the respondent’s offences. The value of the items stolen was relatively low to begin with and the respondent had personally returned the wallets to the counter after the first and third occasions of theft. None of the victims had suffered any loss, nor were they deprived of their property for any substantial period of time. In addition, the respondent had not committed the offences to monetarily enrich himself (at [83]).


The High Court also considered that in cases of theft, economic harm was the most obvious proxy of harm. Here, the lack of economic harm was not merely fortuitous, but a result of the respondent returning the wallets because he felt conflicted immediately after stealing them. There was also no evidence in the proceeded charges that the respondent had actually used those wallets to satisfy his fetishistic disorder. Proportionality almost certainly weighed in favour of a lighter sentence (at [84]).


Although rehabilitation was not completely displaced as a sentencing consideration for the respondent, there was a lack of sentencing options to facilitate his compliance with psychotherapy. Because he had previously served a term of preventive detention, the respondent was precluded from being sentenced to a Mandatory Treatment Order (“MTO”). The High Court observed that a possibly unforeseen outcome of the current MTO regime was that it was not available to accused persons previously sentenced to terms of corrective training or preventive detention for offences connected to previously undiagnosed psychiatric conditions, as well as those subsequently afflicted with psychiatric conditions. Whether such accused persons should benefit from the MTO regime was something Parliament might consider (at [85], [91]–[97]).


As a result of the foregoing, the High Court upheld the District Court’s decision and dismissed the Prosecution’s appeal (at [100]).


 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.



 
 





