
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
26 July 2019
Case summary
Lakshmi Anil Salgaocar  v Jhaveri Darsan Jitendra  [2019] SGCA 42
Civil Appeal No 18 of 2018
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JA):
Outcome: Court of Appeal grants anti-suit injunction based on findings that Singapore is the natural forum for the dispute and pursuit of BVI proceedings by the respondent is vexatious and oppressive 
Background to the appeal
1          The appellant, Mdm Lakshmi Anil Salgaocar, applied for an anti-suit injunction to restrain the respondent, Mr Jhaveri Darsan Jitendra, from continuing proceedings which he had commenced in the British Virgin Islands (“BVI”) (“BVI 83”) while another suit was pending in Singapore between the parties. The appellant is the administratrix of the estate of her late husband, Mr Anil Vassudeva Salgaocar (“Mr Anil”). The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) declined to issue the anti-suit injunction. The appellant appealed against the Judge’s decision. The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal and granted the anti-suit injunction. 
The material facts 
2          For the purposes of the anti-suit injunction, the material dispute between the parties concerned the ownership of a single share in a BVI-incorporated company, Million Dragon Wealth Ltd (“MDWL”) (“the Share”). MDWL was in turn the sole shareholder of 22 other BVI-incorporated companies (“the Subsidiaries”). Each of the Subsidiaries owned one unit in a condominium development in Singapore known as Newton Imperial. The units were rented out, and the rental income was collected in Singapore by a Singapore law firm. 
3          Prior to July 2014, the Share was registered in the name of the respondent’s daughter, Ms Pooja Darsan Jhaveri (“Ms Pooja”), who held the Share as the respondent’s nominee. On 8 July 2014, Ms Pooja executed a memorandum transferring the Share to Mr Anil for the nominal sum of US$1 (“the 2014 share transfer”). The reason for the 2014 share transfer was disputed between the parties. 
4          In August 2015, Mr Anil commenced Suit No 821 of 2015 (“Suit 821”) in Singapore against the respondent, for a declaration that the respondent held various assets on trust for him, an order for the return of the trust assets, and an account and inquiry of all traceable proceeds of the assets. Specifically, Mr Anil claimed that he had entered into an oral agreement with the respondent in 2003 (“the 2003 Agreement”), under which it was agreed that he would use his funds to set up Special Purpose Vehicles (“SPVs”) to conduct business and hold assets, and that the respondent would be a shareholder and/or director of the SPVs and would hold the shares of the SPVs on trust for Mr Anil. Mr Anil claimed that pursuant to this agreement, he had set up Great Newton Properties Pte Ltd (“Great Newton Properties”) which was the developer of Newton Imperial. It was further claimed that the respondent committed various breaches of trust, by amongst others, causing Great Newton Properties to transfer 22 units in Newton Imperial to the Subsidiaries. Mr Anil’s case is that the Share was transferred in 2014 by Ms Pooja in response to a letter of demand sent by his solicitors to the respondent, for the return of the 22 units. The 2014 share transfer was thus relied on by Mr Anil in Suit 821 as an admission by the respondent of the existence and effect of the 2003 Agreement. In response, the respondent denied the existence of the 2003 Agreement.
5          Following Mr Anil’s passing in 2016, there was a temporary halt in the progress of Suit 821 due to a dispute between the appellant and Mr Anil’s daughter, Ms Chandana Anil Salgaocar (“Ms Chandana”), over the appointment of the administratrix of the estate. On 15 May 2017, the respondent was informed by the appellant that the dispute over the appointment of the administratrix of the estate was on the brink of settlement and that with the settlement, the estate would be ready to take over the conduct of Suit 821. 
6          One day later on 16 May 2017, the respondent commenced BVI 83 against the estate and MDWL in the BVI. In BVI 83, the respondent claimed that he was the rightful owner of the Share. He claimed that in 2014, he entered into a different oral agreement with Mr Anil in which Mr Anil agreed to purchase the Share from him for a sum of money (“the 2014 Agreement”). This was essentially to allow Mr Anil to purchase the 22 units in Newton Imperial from the respondent in a tax efficient manner. It is claimed that although the Share was transferred by Ms Pooja to Mr Anil, Mr Anil passed away before paying the respondent what was due under the 2014 Agreement. 
7          Approximately one month after BVI 83 was commenced by the respondent, the appellant filed Originating Summons No 627 of 2017 in the Singapore High Court for an anti-suit injunction to restrain the respondent from proceeding in BVI 83. The Judge dismissed the application for the anti-suit injunction. 
8          After the Judge rendered his decision and while the present appeal was pending, the appellant filed an application in the BVI, asking the BVI court to stay its proceedings on forum non conveniens grounds. The BVI court found that it was the natural forum for the dispute under BVI 83 and declined to stay its proceedings. 
The Court of Appeal's decision
9          The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal and granted the injunction. It found that the legal requirements for an anti-suit injunction to be granted, ie, that (a) Singapore is the natural forum for the dispute; and (b) that the pursuit of foreign proceedings is vexatious and oppressive, were satisfied. It also held that the doctrine of issue estoppel did not apply to preclude the grant of the injunction, and that the grant of the injunction did not breach comity notwithstanding the BVI court’s decision not to stay its proceedings. 
Whether Singapore was the natural forum for the dispute
10        The Court of Appeal reiterated that in identifying the natural forum for the dispute, greater weight should be ascribed to the connecting factors likely to be material to a fair determination of the dispute (at [54]). 
11        It found that Singapore was the natural forum for the dispute based on the following connecting factors: 


The existence of parallel proceedings in Singapore: From a review of the latest versions of the pleadings for Suit 821 and BVI 83, it was clear that similar issues arose for determination in both proceedings. The estate’s claims and the respondent’s claims in both suits were binary in nature (at [67]). This was evident from the latest version of the pleadings filed by the parties in Suit 821 and BVI 83 which disclosed only two (alternative) possibilities as to why the Share was transferred by Ms Pooja to Mr Anil in 2014 (at [66]): 
 


On the estate’s case in Suit 821, the Share was transferred in response to a letter of demand sent by Mr Anil’s solicitors to the respondent, for the return of the 22 units which were said to have been transferred by the respondent to the Subsidiaries in breach of trust under the 2003 Agreement. The 2014 share transfer was thus relied on by the estate in Suit 821 as an admission by the respondent of the existence and effect of the 2003 Agreement.


On the respondent’s claim in BVI 83 and his defence to Suit 821, the Share was transferred pursuant to the alleged sale and purchase arrangement under the 2014 Agreement.




The fact that several witnesses were located in Singapore and therefore compellable in Singapore: The appellant had sufficiently demonstrated that the evidence of the witnesses in Singapore was “at least arguably relevant”. In stark contrast, the respondent had not identified any witness located in the BVI whose testimony would be of any relevance to the issues in BVI 83 (at [76]).


The fact that the real substance of the dispute between the parties concerned the ownership of immovable property and rental proceeds located in Singapore: The Share was of consequence and of interest to the parties only because of the 22 units in Newton Imperial. In this regard, the fact that the disputed Share was in a BVI-incorporated company was not material (at [80], [81]).


12        Based on the facts of the case, the governing law of the dispute was of limited utility and relevance. There was no suggestion by either party that the BVI or Singapore court would apply different principles that would affect the outcome of the dispute, particularly since both Singapore and the BVI were common law jurisdictions. In addition, the key issues in dispute between the parties were factual and not legal in nature (at [55]). On the facts of the case, other factors including the residence of the parties, place of performance/breach, place of enforcement of judgment, and place of contracting were of limited relevance as well (at [77], [85], [86], [87]). 
13        The Court of Appeal found that the pursuit of BVI 83 by the respondent was vexatious and oppressive for the following reasons: 


The timing of the commencement of BVI 83 by the respondent: The fact that the Share was transferred to Mr Anil in 2014 but the respondent only commenced BVI 83 on 16 May 2017, one day after he was informed of the likely progress of the proceedings in Suit 821, suggested that the respondent had commenced the proceedings in the BVI in bad faith (at [93]).


The respondent’s failure to advance a counterclaim: Given the overlap in the facts and issues in BVI 83 and Suit 821, there was no legitimate reason for the respondent to have commenced BVI 83 instead of filing a counterclaim in Suit 821. As the Judge had found, the respondent had not identified any legitimate juridical advantages associated with proceeding in the BVI. In addition, the appellant had indicated that she was prepared to undertake, should the anti-suit injunction be granted, to consent to judgment in the BVI on terms that are identical to the terms of any Singapore judgment that the respondent might obtain (at [95]).


Whether the appellate court was precluded from granting the anti-suit injunction based on issue estoppel 
14        The Court of Appeal held that the fact that the BVI court had declined to stay its proceedings did not give rise to an issue estoppel in the present appeal. Where the foreign court declines to stay its proceedings, an issue estoppel would not necessarily operate to preclude the court hearing the anti-suit injunction application from considering the merits of the application. This was since the test for anti-suit injunctions differed from that for stay applications on forum non conveniens grounds (at [99]). 
15        In addition, if issue estoppel was to apply in the manner advanced by the respondent, the court that was second in time would effectively always be precluded from considering the application before it, though the application was strictly speaking different from that which was considered by the foreign court. Such an approach led to arbitrary outcomes and was not supported by the case law (at [103]).
Whether the pursuit of the BVI proceedings by the respondent was vexatious or oppressive
16        Finally, the Court of Appeal held that even where the foreign court has declined to stay its proceedings, it would not invariably be a breach of comity for the domestic court to grant an anti-suit injunction if it finds that (a) it is clearly the more appropriate forum for the dispute; and (b) the defendant in the application has acted in a vexatious or oppressive manner in commencing the foreign proceedings (at [129]). 
17        The Court of Appeal found that there was a common recognition in the case law that where the domestic court had a sufficiently close connection with the dispute (such as where it was the natural forum) and the pursuit of the foreign proceedings was found to be unconscionable, the grant of the injunction was less likely to infringe principles of comity (at [113]).
18        While the Court of Appeal agreed with the principle that it was generally for the court in which proceedings were brought to determine whether it was the natural forum for the dispute, it explained that this principle did not apply with equal force where a defendant had deliberately carved out a specific issue from a pending suit and commenced proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction in respect of this issue. In such circumstances, it could not be said that the foreign court was necessarily in a better position to determine if it was the natural forum for the dispute, having regard to the overall dispute between the parties (at [122]).
19        Given its findings that Singapore was the natural forum for the dispute and that the respondent had acted in a vexatious and oppressive manner in pursuing BVI 83, the Court of Appeal held that the grant of the anti-suit injunction did not breach comity notwithstanding the BVI court’s decision not to stay its proceedings (at [132]). In addition, the Court of Appeal explained that to allow comity to operate in the manner advanced by the respondent would mean that the outcome of the appeal would be dependent on the scheduling of the cases in the two courts, ie, whether the appeal against the refusal of the anti-suit injunction, or the application to stay the foreign action was heard first. Given that the overarching consideration in an anti-suit injunction application was whether the ends of justice require that the injunction be granted, the determination should not be dependent on the scheduling of cases (at [134]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
