
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
24 July 2019
Case summary
Singapore Medical Council
v Lim Lian Arn [2019]
SGHC 172
Originating Summons No 3 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision
of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: High Court sets aside the conviction of Dr Lim Lian Arn on
the basis that the undisputed facts do not support the charge.
Pertinent and significant points of the
judgment
·        
Not
every departure by a medical practitioner from the acceptable standards of
conduct would necessarily amount to professional misconduct. Instead, the
departure must either be intentional and deliberate, or amount to such serious
negligence that it objectively portrays an abuse of the privileges which
accompany registration as a medical practitioner.
Introduction
1             
Dr Lim
Lian Arn (“Dr Lim”) pleaded guilty to one charge of professional
misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the
Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (“the MRA”) for
failing to obtain informed consent from his patient before administering a steroid
injection to her left wrist. The Disciplinary Tribunal (“the DT”) convicted
Dr Lim of the charge and imposed a fine of $100,000 together with a number
of other commonly-made disciplinary orders. Subsequently, the Ministry of
Health requested the Singapore Medical Council (“the SMC”) to review the
appropriateness of the sentence and to determine any subsequent steps that
should be taken. The SMC then brought this appeal for a review of the DT’s
decision. 
Background to the appeal
2             
The
patient consulted Dr Lim in October 2014 about some pain in her left wrist.
On Dr Lim’s advice, she underwent a Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan. After
reviewing the results of the scan with the patient, Dr Lim offered her two
treatment options: (a) bracing and oral medication; and (b) an
injection of 10mg of triamcinolone acetonide with 1% lignocaine in a total
volume of 2ml (“H&L Injection”) coupled with bracing and oral medication. The
patient chose the H&L Injection. She subsequently experienced swelling and
pain in the injected area about two hours after the H&L Injection, and also
developed paper-thin skin with discolouration as well as loss of fat and muscle
tissues in the injected area.
3             
In the
disciplinary proceedings below, the SMC alleged that Dr Lim had failed to
advise the patient of the possible risks and complications that could arise
from the H&L Injection and had thus failed to obtain her informed consent
before administering the injection. As Dr Lim pleaded guilty and the DT
accepted his plea, the DT was left to consider the question of sentence. In this connection, the SMC sought a five-month
suspension. Dr Lim, on the other hand, urged the DT to either impose the
maximum fine of $100,000 or the minimum suspension period of three months. The
DT eventually imposed a fine of $100,000 as well as a number of other
commonly-made disciplinary orders.
4             
On appeal, the SMC sought a reduction of the sentence
to a fine of not more than $20,000, which position Dr Lim agreed with. At
the hearing, in response to questions posed by the court, counsel for the SMC
maintained that Dr Lim’s conviction was sound. 
The court's decision
5             
Having
considered the facts and the evidence, the court held that the charge was not
made out and, accordingly, set aside Dr Lim’s conviction (at [55]).
6             
The
court first elaborated on what constituted professional misconduct under the MRA.
Not every departure by a doctor from the acceptable standards of conduct would necessarily
amount to professional misconduct. Instead, a threshold must be crossed. The
critical inquiry was whether the conduct would be regarded as falling so far
short of expectations as to warrant the imposition of sanctions. In broad
terms, it would be relevant to consider the nature and extent of the
misconduct, the gravity of the foreseeable consequences of the doctor’s failure
and the public interest in pursuing disciplinary action. This would depend on a
multitude of overlapping considerations including the importance of the rule or
standard that had been breached, the persistence of the breach and the
relevance of the alleged misconduct to the welfare of the patient or to the
harm caused to the doctor-patient relationship. In this regard, a determination
that the disciplinary threshold had been crossed was not an exercise in the
abstract. A court or tribunal would typically expect to be guided by the
available expert evidence (at [30]
and [38]). 
7             
The
court observed that there were serious inadequacies in the expert report tendered
in support of the charge in the present case. The report merely presented
conclusions without setting out the reasons for the conclusions. Such an
opinion was valueless to the court. Notably, the report did not address why Dr Lim was under a positive
duty to disclose to the patient the list of possible risks and complications
spelt out in the report, nor what the likelihood and potential severity of such
risks and complications were. These matters were relevant to both the question
of liability and that of sentence. (at [43]-[45]). 
8             
On
the issue of informed consent, the court reiterated the position that a doctor was
not under a duty to convey to the patient every conceivable risk. Whether
information had to be disclosed depended on several factors: whether the
information was relevant and material to the patient, whether the information was
reasonably in the possession of the doctor and whether the doctor was justified
in withholding the information. Ultimately, what had to be disclosed was
largely a matter of common sense. In this case, the information in question
pertained to how the patient should make her choice between the two treatment
options that she was presented with. If a patient consulted a medical practitioner
with a routine complaint that could be addressed by two or three relatively
uncomplicated and equally valid treatment options, the information to be
disclosed was that which the patient would need in order to be able to make a
decision from among those options. This would then require consideration of the
nature and likelihood of any adverse side effects or complications. In the
absence of any expert evidence on the gravity and likelihood of any adverse
side effects or complications of the H&L Injection, there was simply no
evidentiary basis to form any view as to just what Dr Lim should have
disclosed to the patient, why he should have done so, or how serious his failure
to disclose was (at [48]–[50]).
9             
As
regards the decision to set aside Dr Lim’s conviction, the court stated
that it had serious doubts as to whether Dr Lim had indeed failed to
advise the patient of the risks and possible complications of the H&L
Injection in the first place, even though Dr Lim could not specifically
recall whether he had discussed these matters with the patient and even though
such a discussion was not documented in his clinic notes. The only material
difference between the two treatment options presented to the patient lay in
whether the H&L Injection would be administered. It was very doubtful that the
patient would have proceeded with the H&L Injection without any discussion
at all as to its possible benefits and side effects. This was especially so
since the injection was a steroid injection and there was a clearly more
conservative alternative treatment that was available (at [56]–[57] and [59]). 
10          
More
crucially, on the undisputed facts as found by the DT, the circumstances of the
case did not meet the disciplinary threshold. The DT had found that there was
nothing to suggest that the patient would have taken a different course of
action had the risks and possible complications of the H&L Injection been
conveyed to her. Her autonomy to make an informed decision on her own treatment
was thus not substantially undermined. Further, this was an isolated one-off
incident involving one patient, and was an honest omission on Dr Lim’s
part. Dr Lim had in fact offered an alternative option of conservative
treatment. He had not offered the H&L Injection as the sole treatment, nor had
he actively recommended the injection to the patient. The H&L Injection was
an appropriate and reasonable treatment for the patient in view of her symptoms
and the investigations done by Dr Lim. It was not a complicated or highly
invasive procedure, but rather, a minimally invasive procedure commonly
performed in a clinic. While the patient did suffer some side effects from the
injection, there was nothing to suggest that the complications which she experienced
were in any way permanent or debilitating. Those complications were also not
caused by any act or omission on Dr Lim’s part, but were instead simply a
consequence of the injection. In the circumstances, the present case was one
involving a one-off failing committed in the course of a routine procedure with
no material harm to the patient that could fairly be said to have been caused
by Dr Lim (at [60]–[61]). Accordingly, the disciplinary
threshold was not met and the charge was not made out. The court therefore set
aside Dr Lim’s conviction and all the orders made below (at [64]).
This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not
intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold
font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers 
