
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
23 July 2019
Case summary
Anan Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd v VTB
Bank (Public Joint Stock Company) [2019]
SGCA 41
Civil Appeal No 174 of 2018 (Summons No 33 of 2019)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered
by Steven Chong JA):
Outcome: The Court of Appeal allowed an application to adduce fresh
evidence for an appeal against a winding-up order. 
Background to the application
1          The
High Court had granted the respondent’s petition to wind up the appellant on
the grounds of a statutory demand that remained unpaid. The appellant appealed
against this order and raised a dispute in relation to the quantification of the
debt in the statutory demand, and sought via this application to adduce fresh
evidence in support of its own quantification of the debt. 
Facts
2          The
appellant had entered into an agreement with the respondent for the purchase
and repurchase of certain securities, the commercial effect of which was that
the respondent would loan the appellant some US$250m with the said securities
as collateral. When the value of those securities fell as a result of sanctions
imposed by the United States Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control
(“OFAC”), the respondent exercised its contractual right to demand the
appellant to top up a cash margin as additional collateral, which the appellant
failed to do. The respondent then issued a notice of default of the purchase
and repurchase agreement, followed by a statutory demand for a quantum of debt
calculated with reference to the respondent’s valuation of the securities. When
the appellant failed to make payment pursuant to the statutory demand, the
respondent presented a winding-up petition against the appellant which was
granted by the High Court. The appellant argued unsuccessfully before the High
Court that the OFAC sanctions frustrated the parties’ contract or constituted a
force majeure event.
3          On
appeal, the appellant argued that the respondent’s quantification of the debt
was wrong because its valuation of the securities was unreasonable. In support
of this argument, the appellant sought to adduce a valuation report prepared by
Deloitte which purportedly showed that no debt was owing to the respondent at
all. The respondent objected to the introduction of the Deloitte report on the
basis that it did not fulfil the requirements in Ladd v Marshall for fresh evidence to be introduced on appeal.
Decision of the Court of Appeal
4          The rationale behind the Ladd v Marshall rule is to preserve the
interests of finality in litigation, and also to incentivise parties to abide
by the fundamental principles of fairness in their conduct of a trial or a
hearing on the merits. These are desirable principles but are not unassailable objectives
that would always be consistent with the ends of justice in every case: (at [23], [24], [26]).
5          Where it is clear that an appeal is
against a judgment after a trial or a hearing having the full characteristics
of a trial, Ladd v Marshall should
generally be applied in its full rigour. On the other hand, where the hearing
was not upon the merits at all, then Ladd
v Marshall serves as a guideline which the court is entitled but not
obliged to refer to: (at [35]).
6          Even after considering the nature of
the proceedings below, the court retains its overarching discretion to act as
the interests of justice require. The court can admit fresh evidence
notwithstanding the non-compliance of the Ladd
v Marshall conditions in exceptional cases where it would affront a sense
of justice to refuse leave to adduce fresh evidence. Three broad categories of
cases illustrate this principle: first, where new evidence reveals fraud
perpetrated on the court below; second, where a party was prevented from
adducing fresh evidence during the hearing below in circumstances akin to
denial of natural justice; third, where the subject matter of the dispute was
such that the stakes were particularly high or where there was a greater public
interest involved, such as in child welfare or criminal proceedings. In such
cases, the court may relax the application of the Ladd v Marshall conditions in the interests of justice: (at [37], [38], [39], [41], [47], [50]).
7          Thus, in dealing with an application
to adduce fresh evidence on appeal, the court should adopt a two-step analysis.
First, the court should consider the nature of the proceedings below and
evaluate the extent to which it bears the characteristics of a full trial.
Second, the court should determine whether there are any other reasons for
which the Ladd v Marshall requirements
ought to be relaxed in the interest of justice, with reference to the three
categories set out above: (at [57], [58]).
8          In any case, the court is to conduct a
balancing exercise between the interests of finality and the right of an
applicant to put forth relevant and credible evidence, having regard to the
considerations of proportionality and prejudice: (at [59]).
9          In the present case, the winding-up
hearing was a hearing on the substantive merits but did not bear the
characteristics of a full trial, and the compressed timelines meant that it was
not unreasonable for the appellant to mount different arguments on appeal. The
Deloitte report was potentially relevant to these argument of the
quantification of the debt. The considerations of proportionality were also
persuasive – winding up the appellant is a draconian outcome whereas no real prejudice
would be caused to the respondent by allowing the Deloitte report to be adduced
as fresh evidence: (at [63]–[66]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
