
 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 May 2019
Case summary
Bintai Kindenko Pte Ltd v Samsung
C&T Corp and another    
[2019] SGCA 39
Civil Appeal No 95 of 2018
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Justice of Appeal Tay Yong Kwang):
Outcome: The CoA dismisses appeal against
decision to discharge an ex parte
interim injunction which restrained a call on a banker’s guarantee.
Facts
1          The
first respondent, Samsung C&T Corporation (“the First Respondent”), was
appointed by HSBC Institutional Trust Services (S) Limited (“the Employer”) as
the main contractor for a project to upgrade the Suntec City Convention Centre
and its retail podium (“the Project”). It appointed the appellant, Bintai
Kindenko Pte Ltd (“the Appellant”), as the Project’s mechanical and engineering
sub-contractor: [4] and [5].
2          In
the Sub-Contract between the Appellant and the First Respondent, cl 3 stated
that the form of the Main Contract was the Singapore Institute of Architects
(“SIA”) Lump Sum Contract (9th Edition) and the Sub-Contract between the
parties shall be SIA Conditions of Sub-Contract 4th Edition, 2010, including
all Particular Conditions as set out in the Main Contract. Both the Particular
Conditions of Main Contract and the Particular Conditions of Sub-Contract
included the same exclusionary clause that excluded the First Respondent and
the Appellant respectively from relying on the ground of unconscionability to
restrain any call or demand on the performance bond or any receipt of cash
proceeds under the performance bond. These were referred to in the grounds of
decision as the Exclusion Clauses: [8],
[13] and [14].
3          It
turned out that various phases of the Sub-Contract works were not completed on
time and disputes arose between the parties as to whether the Appellant was
liable for these delays. Between March 2014 and December 2015, the Appellant sought
extensions of time to the contractual deadlines for the respective phases of
the Sub-Contract works but these requests were all rejected by the First
Respondent. The First Respondent also stated that it would hold the Appellant
responsible for the delays allegedly caused by it, which included liability for
liquidated damages and claims for any additional costs incurred by the First
Respondent. Subsequently, the First Respondent wrote to the Second Respondent,
the bank, to demand payment on the banker’s guarantee provided by the Appellant:
[20]–[29].
4          The
Appellant became aware of the First Respondent’s call on the banker’s guarantee
on 28 August 2017 and it took out an ex
parte application for an interim injunction to restrain the First
Respondent from calling on the banker’s guarantee and the bank from paying out
on the guarantee. The judge below granted the ex parte interim injunction. The First Respondent applied for the
discharge of the injunction. After hearing both parties, the judge discharged
the interim injunction: [31]–[33].
The Appellant appealed against the decision of the judge to discharge the interim
injunction.
Decision on appeal
5          The
court will only intervene to prevent a beneficiary from calling on a
performance guarantee if it can be shown that the call was either fraudulent or
unconscionable: [1].
6          The
First Respondent, as the party seeking to rely on the Exclusion Clauses, bore
the burden of showing that the Appellant’s right to rely on the
unconscionability exception was contractually excluded. It had to show credible
evidence that the Exclusion Clause was incorporated into the Sub-Contract. The
judge below found that the Particular Conditions of Sub-Contract were
incorporated into the Sub-Contract by virtue of cl 3, and there was no reason
to disturb his conclusion. The Court of Appeal was not persuaded by the
Appellant’s contention that the Exclusion Clauses could not have been
incorporated because the Appellant was not given a copy of the Particular
Conditions of Main Contract and the Particular Conditions of Sub-Contract at
the time of contracting. It did not matter whether the Appellant was actually
given a copy or whether it had any knowledge of what those terms were. It is a
well-established principle that in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation, a
party is bound by all the terms of a contract that it signs, even if that party
did not read or understand those terms: [49],
[53], [56], [58] and [59].
7          The
Appellant argued that in the event that the Exclusion Clauses were incorporated
into the Sub-Contract, they should nevertheless be considered unenforceable
pursuant to the Unfair Contract Terms Act (Cap 396, 1994 Rev Ed). This point
was not raised before the judge below and the Appellant did not seek leave from
the Court of Appeal to raise this new point. The Court agreed with the First
Respondent that it would be prejudiced if the Appellant were allowed to raise
this new point on appeal, because the First Respondent did not have the
opportunity to adduce evidence relevant to the reasonableness of the Exclusion
Clauses at the time of contracting. In any case, the Court held that it was not
inclined to hold that the Exclusion Clauses were inherently unreasonable and
unenforceable: [65]–[71]. 
8          The
judge below found that there was no strong prima
facie case of fraud on the part of the First Respondent to justify the interim
injunction. The Court of Appeal found that there was no compelling reason to disagree.
However, there was some merit in the Appellant’s arguments about the validity
of the First Respondent’s claims against it although they were not sufficient
to establish a strong prima facie
case of fraud. There was no evidence of the Employer making any claims against the
First Respondent for delays, and the First Respondent’s errors in computing
some of the periods of delay suggested that the First Respondent had simply
made up its liquidated damages claims in haste: [73]–[77].
9          
A party seeking an ex parte
interlocutory injunction has a duty to make full and frank disclosure of all
material facts. The Court of Appeal found that the Appellant failed to
discharge its duty to make full and frank disclosure during the ex parte hearing because it did not draw
the judge’s attention to the fact that there was an issue about whether the
unconscionability exception was excluded by contract. Although the Court has
the discretion to continue an interim injunction notwithstanding the lack of full
and frank disclosure, the Court did not consider that this was an appropriate
case for the exercise of that discretion, because the Exclusion Clauses were
obviously highly material in the ex parte
application and would have affected significantly the judge’s decision to grant
an interim injunction: [79] [80] and [83].
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
