
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
27 May 2019 
 
Case summary 
 
Adili Chibuike Ejike v
Public Prosecutor [2019] SGCA
38 Criminal Appeal No 18 of 2017 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of
Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ): 
 
Outcome: CoA allows accused’s
appeal against conviction and acquits accused of capital charge of importation
of methamphetamine. 
 
Background 
 
1          The appellant, Adili Chibuike Ejike,
was convicted in the High Court of importing not less than 1,961g of
methamphetamine into Singapore, and was sentenced to death. He appealed against
his conviction and the sentence imposed. 
 
The
material facts 
 
2          The appellant, a Nigerian national, had
travelled to Singapore from Nigeria. At Customs, his luggage, a small suitcase,
was put through an X-ray machine and an image of darker density was observed on
one side of the case. When nothing incriminating was found after a physical
search, the case was brought to the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority
Baggage Office for further inspection. The inner lining of one side of the bag
was first cut and a bundle wrapped in brown masking tape was found inside. The
inner lining of the other side was then cut, revealing another bundle wrapped
in brown tape. The two bundles were later found to contain the methamphetamine
which formed the subject matter of the charge brought against the appellant. 
 
3          Prior to coming to Singapore, the
appellant had been unemployed in Nigeria following the failure of his business.
The appellant claimed that an acquaintance in Nigeria had agreed to give him
some financial assistance if he delivered the suitcase together with some money
to an unspecified person in Singapore. He maintained at all times that he did
not know that the bundles of methamphetamine were in the suitcase. 
 
4          At the trial, Defence counsel conceded
the issue of possession and admitted that the appellant had been in possession
of the case containing the bundles of methamphetamine, and that he was
therefore presumed to be in possession of the methamphetamine pursuant to s
18(1) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”). The
appellant’s defence rested instead on the issue of knowledge of the nature of
the drug: Defence counsel argued that the appellant did not know that the
bundles contained methamphetamine. The trial therefore focused on whether the
appellant had been able to rebut the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of
the MDA. 
 
5          The trial judge (“the Judge”) rejected
the appellant’s evidence on knowledge. He found the appellant to be an
unreliable witness in the light of several inconsistencies between the
appellant’s oral testimony and his investigation statements regarding, amongst
other things, what the appellant knew about the contents of the suitcase.
Having rejected the appellant’s defence, the Judge convicted the appellant. As
the Public Prosecutor did not issue a Certificate of Substantive Assistance, the
alternative sentencing regime under s 33B of the MDA was not applicable to the
appellant. Accordingly, the Judge sentenced him to the mandatory death penalty.

 
The court’s decision 
 
6          The Court of
Appeal allowed the appellant’s appeal against conviction and acquitted him of
the charge. 
 
7          The Court set
out the three cumulative elements that must be proved in respect of the offence
of importation under s 7 of the MDA: First, the accused person must have been
in possession of the drugs. Second, the accused person must have had knowledge
of the nature of the drugs. Third, the drugs must have been intentionally
brought into Singapore without prior authorisation (at [27]). 
 
8          The Court
considered that the central issue before it was whether the appellant was in
possession of the methamphetamine. Although the parties had, at the trial
below, proceeded on the basis that the appellant was presumed to be in
possession of the drugs by virtue of s 18(1) of the MDA, the Court doubted the
correctness of that approach as the appellant’s contention that he did not even
know that the drug bundles were hidden in the case was one that went not to
whether he knew the nature of the drugs, but to whether he had even possessed
those drugs in the first place. This was because the element of possession
required not just proof of physical possession or custody but also incorporated
an element of knowledge (at [28] and [31]). A person who did not
even know that the thing which turned out to be a controlled drug was in his
possession could not be said, in a legal sense, to be in possession of that
thing. In this regard, what was required was that the accused person must have
known of the existence, within his possession, custody or control, of the thing
which later turned out to be a controlled drug; in this specific context, he
need not have known that the thing was a controlled drug. Knowledge of the
specific nature of the drug was a separate element of the offence (at [32]).

 
9          The Court
observed that “knowledge” comprised both actual knowledge and wilful blindness
(which was the legal equivalent of actual knowledge) (at [41]). The
Court further noted that the term “wilful blindness”, when correctly used,
described a mental state which fell short of actual knowledge. On this view, an
accused person who did not in fact know the true position but sufficiently
suspected what it was and deliberately refused to investigate in order to avoid
confirmation of his own suspicions should, in certain circumstances, be treated
as though he did know. The Court held that, moving forward, the term “wilful
blindness” should only be used in this extended sense (meaning a mental state
which fell short of actual knowledge). It should not be used in the evidential
sense, whereby the accused person’s suspicions and deliberate refusal to
inquire constituted evidence which, together with all the other relevant
evidence, might sustain a factual finding or inference that he actually knew that
which he was accused of knowing (at [45], [47] and [50]). 
 
10        The Court laid
down three requirements that must be satisfied before a finding of wilful
blindness could be made. First, the accused person must have had a clear,
grounded and targeted suspicion of the fact to which he is said to have been
wilfully blind. Second, there must have been reasonable means of inquiry
available to the accused person, which, if taken, would have led him to
discovery of the truth. Third, the accused person must have deliberately
refused to pursue the reasonable means of inquiry available so as to avoid such
negative legal consequences as might arise in connection with his knowing that
fact (at [51]). The Court further observed that the test for wilful
blindness might vary where the specific fact to which the accused person was
said to be wilfully blind was knowledge of the nature of the drug, as opposed
to knowledge of the existence of the thing which turned out to be the drug (at [52]
and [62]). 
 
11        The Court
observed that knowledge could either be proved or presumed. Where the
Prosecution sought to prove knowledge of a particular fact, it must prove
beyond reasonable doubt either that the accused person actually knew that fact,
or that the accused person had been wilfully blind to it. However, where the
Prosecution sought to rely on the s 18(1) presumption to establish possession,
the doctrine of wilful blindness had no application. The Prosecution could not
rely on the s 18(1) presumption to prove that the accused person was wilfully
blind to the presence of the drugs in his possession, custody or control;
neither was wilful blindness relevant in analysing whether the presumption had
been rebutted. When the Prosecution invoked the s 18(1) presumption, the onus
shifted to the accused person to rebut the presumption by showing that he did
not actually know that the drugs were in his possession, for example, by
persuading the court that the drugs were slipped into his bag without his
knowledge (at [70] and [71]). 
 
12         The
Prosecution could not invoke the s 18(1) presumption to presume that the
appellant actually knew of the existence of the drug bundles when its case,
both below and on appeal, was that the appellant did not actually know. The Prosecution’s
case was that the appellant had been wilfully blind to the existence of the
drugs in the suitcase, and this was crucial because, as the Prosecution itself
explained, this implicitly entailed that the appellant did not actually know of
the existence of those drugs. It was therefore not open to the Prosecution to
invoke a presumption as to the existence of a fact which it had accepted did
not exist (at [74], [80] and [81]). 
 
13        The Court
further held that the appellant had not been wilfully blind to the existence of
the drug bundles in the suitcase. This was because it would not have been
possible for the appellant to have discovered the drug bundles even if he had
made the requisite inquiries. The Court was satisfied that even if the appellant
had opened and checked the contents of the suitcase, he would not have been
able to discover the drug bundles, which were only found after the inner lining
of the suitcase was cut open. Nor could the appellant have found out about the
drugs by asking the persons who had handed him the suitcase in Nigeria since it
was apparent that they were intent on keeping the truth of the matter from him,
and would not have told him about the hidden drug bundles even if he had asked
(at [84] to [87]). 
 
14        For these reasons,
the Court held that the Prosecution had failed to establish a key element of
the offence of importation, namely, that the appellant knew that the drug
bundles in the suitcase were in his possession. Accordingly, the Court allowed
the appeal against conviction and acquitted the appellant of the charge against
him (at [103] and [104]). 
 
This summary is provided to
assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
