
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
27 May 2019

 
Case
summary 
 
Nagaenthran
a/l K Dharmalingam v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2019] SGCA 37 
Criminal
Appeal No 50 of 2017 and Civil Appeal No 98 of 2018 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of
the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon): 
 
Outcome: CoA dismissed both of the appellant’s appeals
against two separate High Court decisions. In the first, the CoA upheld the
High Court’s dismissal of the appellant’s re-sentencing application. In the
second, the CoA upheld the High Court’s dismissal of the appellant’s
application seeking leave to commence judicial review proceedings of the Public
Prosecutor’s decision not to issue a certificate of substantive assistance in
his favour. 
 
Introduction 
 
1          These were
two appeals by the appellant, who had been convicted and sentenced to death for
drug importation, against two separate decisions of the High Court. 
 
Background to the appeals 
 
2          The appellant
had been apprehended in 2009, as he was entering Singapore from Malaysia, with
a bundle of diamorphine strapped to his thigh. When questioned by officers from
the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”), the appellant admitted to knowing that
the bundle contained diamorphine, and explained at the time that a friend known
only as “King” had strapped the bundle to his thigh so that no one would find
it. The appellant’s contemporaneous statements were duly recorded by the CNB
officers. 
 
3           At trial
however, the appellant denied having knowledge of the contents of the bundle
and raised, for the first time, the defence that he had been threatened to
deliver the bundle of drugs for King. The trial judge rejected these defences,
finding that the appellant’s contemporaneous statements were voluntarily
provided and accurately recorded. The trial judge accordingly convicted the
appellant and sentenced him to the mandatory death penalty at the time. 
 
4          After the
appellant’s conviction and sentence were upheld on appeal, the execution of the
appellant’s sentence was stayed in view of the fact that Parliament was
undertaking a review of the mandatory death penalty in relation to drug
offences at the material time. The appellant then applied to be re-sentenced
under the new sentencing regime introduced by Parliament, seeking to show,
towards that end, that he was suffering from an abnormality of mind that
substantially impaired his mental responsibility for his acts at the time of
his offending conduct. He provided conflicting accounts of the reasons for his
offending however, in the various psychological and psychiatric reports
tendered for the purposes of the re-sentencing application. The High Court
Judge (“the Judge”) accordingly found that the most credible account of why he
offended was that which was contained in the contemporaneous statements he had
provided to the CNB officers at the time of his arrest in 2009. The appellant
had stated in those statements that he knew the bundle he was delivering
contained drugs, but that he was doing so because he needed money. On that
basis, the Judge found that the appellant clearly understood the nature of what
he was doing and his judgment as to what was right or wrong was not impaired.
The Judge therefore dismissed the appellant’s application to be re-sentenced,
finding that the appellant was not suffering from an abnormality of mind that
substantially impaired his mental responsibility for his offence. In the first
appeal, the appellant appeals against the Judge’s decision to dismiss his
re-sentencing application. 
 
5          Separately,
the Public Prosecutor (“PP”) had informed the appellant that he would not be
issuing a certificate of substantive assistance under s 33B(2)(b) of the
Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) in the appellant’s favour.
The appellant sought leave from the High Court to commence judicial review
proceedings against the PP’s non-certification decision. In the second appeal,
the appellant appeals against the Judge’s dismissal of his leave application. 
 
The court’s decision 
 
6          In the first
appeal, the court began by observing that the Judge was particularly troubled
by the fact that the appellant had, at various points in time, provided vastly
different and irreconcilable accounts of why he had committed the offence (at [35]).
The court took the view that the appellant’s vacillation between various
accounts of why he had offended did not aid his case at all, and that they all
contradicted the original account of the reason for his offending – that which
was provided in his contemporaneous statements to the CNB officers (at [37]).
There was no reason to doubt the veracity of that account, as the statements
were found to have been accurately recorded and given voluntarily (at [38]).
On that account, the appellant’s mental responsibility for his offence could
not have been substantially impaired, because he clearly understood the nature
of his acts and did not lose his sense of judgment of the rightness or
wrongness of what he was doing. He was unequivocal in identifying the contents
of the bundle as diamorphine and took steps to conceal the bundle, as he knew
that it was unlawful for him to transport drugs. Yet, he undertook the criminal
endeavour for money (at [40]). In the court’s judgment, the appellant
took a calculated risk which, contrary to his expectations, materialised. In
the circumstances, even if his ability to assess the risk was impaired, on no
basis could this amount to an impairment of his mental responsibility for his
acts (at [41]). The court, accordingly, dismissed the first appeal (at [42]).

 
7          In the second
appeal, the court began by considering the preliminary issue of whether s
33B(4) of the MDA had the effect of ousting the court’s power to review the
PP’s non-certification decision. The court began with the observation that in a
constitutional system of governance such as Singapore’s, the courts are
ordinarily vested with the power to adjudicate upon all disputes; judicial
review forms a part of this power to adjudicate and concerns that area of law
where the courts review the legality of government actions (at [46]).
The court found that s 33B(4) was not an ouster clause, as it did not purport
to exclude the jurisdiction of the courts to supervise the legality of the PP’s
non-certification decision; it only immunised the PP from suit save on certain
exceptions as stated in s 33B(4) (at [51]). The court noted that the
inquiry whether an offender had substantively assisted the CNB in disrupting
drug trafficking activities within or outside Singapore entailed a wide ranging
assessment going beyond the institutional competence of the courts, which was
ultimately directed to the resolution of particular controversies (at [58]).
In that light, it was entirely logical for Parliament to vest in the PP the
responsibility for determining whether an offender had rendered substantive
assistance to the CNB in disrupting drug trafficking activities and then to
immunise the PP, save on excepted grounds, in respect of that determination.
Without s 33B(4), an aggrieved offender might be tempted to bring suit against
the PP challenging his determination, and thereby force the court into the
unviable position of having to determine an issue that the court is inherently
not capable of determining; yet, at the same time, the exceptions to the
immunity granted by s 33B(4) serve to safeguard against abuse (at [67]).

 
8          Having found
that s 33B(4) did not oust the jurisdiction of the courts to review the PP’s
non-certification decision, the court proceeded to determine the merits of the
appeal. The court dismissed the second appeal on both grounds of review brought
by the appellant. As to the first ground, the court was of the view that the
appellant had not adduced a shred of evidence to show that the PP had failed to
consider the effect of the appellant’s information provided in his
contemporaneous statements on the disruption of drug trafficking activities at
that time (at [79]). As to the second ground, the court took the view
that the PP’s determination of whether an offender had rendered substantive
assistance to the CNB in disrupting drug trafficking activities both within and
outside Singapore was simply not a determination involving the exercise of an
executive discretion that required a precedent fact to be established (at [84]),
which meant that the appellant could not impugn the PP’s non-certification
decision on the ground that the decision was reached in the absence of a
precedent fact being established. 
 
This summary is provided to
assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not
intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold
font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the
Court’s grounds of decision.
