
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
8 May 2019
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v Satesh s/o Navarlan
[2019] SGHC 119 
Criminal Appeal No. 9349 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by
Justice of Appeal Tay Yong Kwang):
Outcome: High Court allows prosecution’s appeal on
sentence against decision of the lower court in a case involving family
violence.
1           
This
was an appeal against the sentence ordered by the lower court in a case
involving family violence. The Respondent had pleaded guilty to two charges,
and the District Judge (“DJ”) imposed on him a Short Detention Order of 14 days
and a Day Reporting Order of nine months. The Prosecution’s appeal against that
decision was allowed. The High Court set aside the sentence below and imposed a
global sentence of five weeks’ imprisonment: [1].
Facts/ The material facts
2           
The
Respondent was a 34-year-old Singaporean at the time of the offences. The
victim is his wife, who was residing with him at the material time of the
offences. In the court below, he pleaded guilty to one charge under s 65(8) of
the Women’s Charter (Cap 353, 2009 Rev Ed) for contravening a Personal
Protection Order (“PPO”), and one charge under s 323 of the Penal Code (Cap
224, 2008 Rev Ed) for voluntarily causing hurt to his wife. One other charge under
s 65(8) of the Women’s Charter and one other charge under s 323 of the Penal
Code were taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. At the time
of the offences, the Respondent was subject to a PPO which restrained the
Respondent from using family violence against his wife: [2].
3           
The
offences took place in the home of the Respondent and his wife. In the early
morning of 1 February 2018, the Respondent returned home, intoxicated. The wife
was in the bedroom with their five-year-old daughter when the Respondent
entered at about 2.30am and grabbed the blanket away from his wife. He grabbed
her right leg and bit it: [3].
4           
About
10 minutes later, the wife asked the Respondent to wash up because he smelled
of alcohol. The Respondent responded strangely by rolling around on the bed.
Worried for their daughter, the wife brought her out of the bedroom into the
living room. The Respondent followed them out and an argument ensued between
the Respondent and his wife. The argument became heated and the Respondent
threw several punches at his wife. The wife got hold of an umbrella that was
near her and attempted to use it to block these punches. However, the
Respondent managed to land a punch on his wife’s left cheek. The attack did not
stop there. The Respondent grabbed the umbrella away from his wife and swung it
at her, using it to hit her on both flanks: [4]. 
5           
Their
daughter informed the Respondent’s father about the incident after witnessing
it. The Respondent’s father, who was also residing in the flat, tried to
separate the Respondent and his wife. The wife tried to call the police with
her hand-phone but the Respondent snatched it from her and threw it on the
floor before she could make the call. The wife fled from the flat with the
daughter and then called the police. She was found to suffer from “tenderness
over her left cheek, forehead, left side of neck and left chest wall with
thoracic region” as a result of the Respondent’s attacks. She was discharged
with medication for the contusions. Since then, she has been seeking refuge at
a community shelter and has not returned home to live with the Respondent: [5]. 
The court’s ground of
decision/ Decision on appeal
6           
The
principle of deterrence features prominently in offences of domestic violence.
The present case is no exception: [14].
The Respondent’s culpability was very
high. The Respondent relentlessly assaulted against his wife in the presence of
their then five-year-old daughter after returning home in an intoxicated state
at past 2am and rudely waking them up. He bit her right leg. Later, he could
even laugh and mock the way his wife held an umbrella to ward him off. He
snatched the umbrella from her and used it to hit her body while sarcastically
and sadistically telling her, “This is how it works!”.  He tried to stop her from leaving the flat
after assaulting her and chased her to the lift when she managed to escape from
the flat. The Respondent’s conduct greatly affected his wife’s and their young
daughter’s sense of security and peace of mind. The wife even decided to seek
refuge at a family centre and filed for divorce one week after the assault
(though the divorce action was discontinued): [15] and [16]. 
7           
The
law is clear that voluntary excessive consumption of alcohol aggravates rather than
mitigates an offence that results from such drunkenness. The Respondent had an
alcohol problem for more than 10 years – the PPO against him in 2014 for the
protection of his wife was issued after he had pushed his wife while he was in
an intoxicated state, injuring her. Nevertheless, the Respondent continued with
his excessive consumption of alcohol: [17].
8           
The
Respondent had a lack of rehabilitative prospects. The present offences were
not out of character with his conduct leading to his wife applying for a PPO
against him in 2014. Consuming too much alcohol and getting into trouble was
also not new to him. He was convicted and imprisoned in 2007 and again in 2013
for drink-driving. His sudden decision to enrol with Alcoholics Anonymous after
he was charged with the present offences did not appear to be motivated by true
remorse but appeared to be a tactical move for his mitigation plea: [18] and [19]. 
9           
The
present offences did not fall under the categories for which community-based
sentencing was envisaged. There was nothing to suggest that the Respondent’s
capacity for rehabilitation was so promising that the option of community-based
sentencing would be appropriate in the present case: [23].
10         
Given
the strong stance taken against family violence, custodial sentences have been
imposed for breaches of PPOs: [24].
11         
The
High Court imposed imprisonment terms of three weeks for the charge of breach
of PPO under the Women’s Charter and five weeks for the charge of voluntarily
causing hurt under the Penal Code. As both offences were very close in time, the
imprisonment terms were ordered to run concurrently, giving a total sentence of
five weeks’ imprisonment: [27]. 
 
This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It
is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in
bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in
the Court’s grounds of decision
