
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
3 May 2019
Case summary
HC/SUM
4922/2018
Brightex Paints (S) Pte Ltd v Tan Ongg
Seng (in his personal capacity and trading
as Starlit(S) Trading) and others [2019] SGHC 116
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of Judicial Commissioner Dedar
Singh Gill:
Outcome: First
defendant found in breach of disclosure and delivery up orders made against
him, sentenced to 14 days’ imprisonment for contempt of court. 
 
Background 
1          This
case arose out of an application by the plaintiff for an order of committal
against the first defendant for contempt of court. 
2          The
first defendant is a former employee of the plaintiff. He worked for the plaintiff
in two stints (from 1987 to 2002 and from 2012 to 2016). During his second
stint, the first defendant served as the plaintiff’s Myanmar production
manager, working with the second and third defendants in producing and
distributing the plaintiff’s products in Myanmar. In the course of his work,
the first defendant gained access to the plaintiff’s confidential and business
sensitive information. The first defendant resigned in September 2016. The
plaintiff subsequently discovered that he unlawfully accessed, downloaded and
copied its confidential information before disseminating the same to the second
and third defendants.            
3          On
6 July 2018, the plaintiff obtained judgment against the first defendant
pursuant to O 19 r 7 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed). The
first defendant was required to deliver up and disclose all of the plaintiff’s
confidential information in his possession, power, custody or control within
seven days of the judgment. 
4          The
plaintiff subsequently commenced committal proceedings against the first
defendant on the basis that the first defendant had failed to comply with the
orders against him. Whilst the first defendant had provided several CDs containing
relevant documents and correspondence, these CDs did not contain all of the
confidential information which had been taken. In response, the first defendant
asserted that he had delivered up all of the relevant materials in his possession.
He had deleted information that was no longer of use to him before he left the
plaintiff’s employ and was unable to deliver materials which he no longer
possessed. In respect of the disclosure order, the first defendant claimed that
he had not communicated any confidential information to third parties and there
was consequently nothing to disclose. 
 
The court’s decision
5          The
High Court found that the first defendant had breached the delivery up and
disclosure orders. It was apparent that there were materials, which the first
defendant had conceded to accessing (at [32]), which were not handed over to
the plaintiff (at [36]). The first defendant did not take steps to remedy this
non-compliance (at [37]–[39]). Having conducted a forensic examination of the
first defendant’s computer, the plaintiff was also aware that there had been
communications amongst the defendants which were subject to the disclosure
order (at [41]). This directly contradicted the first defendant’s assertions.
There was also evidence that the first defendant had not deleted all of the
plaintiff’s confidential materials before
he resigned (at [43]–[44]). He retained these materials in his possession
post-resignation and was required to disclose this to the plaintiff. He failed
to do so.  
6          In
respect of sentencing, the High Court considered that a custodial sentence should
be imposed to register the court’s disapproval of the first defendant’s conduct
(at [53]). The court took guidance from the non-exhaustive list of sentencing
considerations set out by the Court of Appeal in Mok Kah Hong v Zheng Zhuan Yeo [2016] 3 SLR 1. Bearing these
considerations in mind, the first defendant had breached these orders
deliberately over a period of several months. In the circumstances, a sentence
of 14 days’ imprisonment was appropriate. 
 
This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It
is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in
bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in
the Court’s grounds of decision
