
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 May 2023Case SummaryCNA v CNB and anor and other matters [2023] SGHC(I) 6Originating Summonses Nos. 2 to 5 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Philip Jeyaretnam J):Outcome: The Singapore International Commercial Court dismisses applications to set aside an arbitral award on the basis that the arbitral tribunal (“Tribunal”) lacked jurisdiction to determine the dispute. Introduction1 The plaintiffs, CNA, CND and CNE, applied to set aside the partial award on liability (the “First Partial Award”) made in an arbitration commenced under the International Chamber of Commerce (the “ICC”) (the “Present Arbitration”), pursuant to Art 34(2)(a)(i) and/or Art 34(2)(a)(iii) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“the Model Law”) read with s 3 of the International Arbitration Act 1994 (2020 Rev Ed) on the basis that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction over the dispute. On the same basis, the plaintiffs applied also to set aside the award on costs arising from the findings made in the First Partial Award (the “Second Partial Award”, collectively with the First Partial Award, the “Partial Awards”). 2 The issue central to the setting aside applications is whether the arbitration clause providing for a Singapore-law governing clause and an ICC arbitration in Singapore (the “ICC Clause”) pursuant to which the Present Arbitration had been commenced was superseded on 30 June 2017 by the arbitration clause providing for arbitration before the Shanghai International Arbitration Centre (“SHIAC”) seated in Shanghai, the People’s Republic of China(the “PRC”) (the “SHIAC Clause”) in the agreement which extended a software licensing agreement for an additional term of five years (the “2017 Extension Agreement”). The Tribunal rejected this argument on the basis that the entry into the 2017 Extension Agreement by CNA had happened in breach of its fiduciary duty.3 CNA is an entity whose principal business is the development of PC and mobile games. CND is the wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of CNE. CND and CNE are part of a group which is a leading developer, operator and publisher of online games. The defendants are CNB and CNC. CNB is engaged in the business of developing and providing services related to Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (“MMORPG”) and mobile game software. CNC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of CNB.4 In 1997, the first iteration of the game [X] was developed. CNA was founded by the developers and an investor. Their relationship broke down in 1999, and CNB was established in early 2000. 5 CNA and CNB entered into a series of agreements to regulate their relationship as co-owners of the copyright in the products in the game series, which includes the sequel game [X2]. The development of the game [X2] was completed around September 2000.6 On 18 February 2000, CNA and CNB entered into the Basic Agreement (the “Basic Agreement”), which provided that they would cooperate with each other regarding the joint development of the game [X] series and execute a separate joint development agreement.7 On 23 February 2000, CNA and CNB entered into the Domestic Agreement to regulate their respective roles in the development and dealership of the game [X].8 On 26 February 2021, CNA and CNB entered into the Overseas Agreement which set out terms pertaining to the joint development and overseas sales of the game series.9 On 29 June 2001, CNA, solely in its name, entered into the Software Licensing Agreement (the “SLA”) with the predecessors of CND and CNE. Under the SLA, CNE was granted the sole and exclusive distribution licence for the Chinese-language version of the [computer game [X2] delivered in formats including CD-ROM and via the internet. The SLA contained the ICC Clause. 10 Following the SLA, the Chinese-language version of the game [X2] was launched around late 2001 in the PRC to resounding success. After the success of the game [X2], in or around December 2001, bugs and cheating programs started to interfere with its operation. 11 Eventually, on 14 July 2002, CNA, CNB and CNE entered into a Supplementary Agreement to the SLA (ie, the 2002 Supplementary Agreement), which detailed CNB’s obligation, as co-licensor, to CNE to resolve technical problems that might affect the servicing and normal operation of the computer game [X2] in the PRC.12 Between 2003 and 2004, multiple proceedings in the Korean courts were brought by CNA and CNB against each other. There were over 20 lawsuits filed between the parties during that time.13 On 29 April 2004, CNA and CNB agreed to settle all pending litigation in the Korean courts by way of a settlement agreement reviewed, approved, recorded and sealed by the Seoul Central District Court (ie, the 2004 Settlement Record). The 2004 Settlement Record contained terms on the allocation of sales and revenue recognition for overseas sales and agreements entered into by each party with respect to the game [X2] and the threequel, the game [X3], as well as each party’s right to separately execute licence agreements with third parties in relation to the game [X2] and the game [X3].14 Subsequently, the SLA was assigned, amended and extended several more times over the years, by CNA entering into an agreement with CNE or their assignees. CNB was not a party to these agreements, save for the 2009 Supplementary Agreement that was made between CNA, CNB and CNE to set out the terms and conditions under which CNB would provide specified textual and/or graphical content pertaining to the game [X2] and technical support directly to CNE.  15 From 2013, the demand for PC-client games began to shrink, while the demand for web and mobile games started to grow rapidly. On the back of the change in market trends, the parties began negotiating an arrangement to exploit the mobile version of the game [X2]. On 10 March 2015, CND entered into two separate mobile games licence agreements with CNB and CNA respectively to develop the mobile version of the game [X2].16 However, around that same period, CNB discovered that CND (acting on behalf of CNE) or CNE did not merely use the authorisation letters it previously provided to them to police the infringing activities in the PRC (which was the basis upon which the letters were sought). Instead, these authorisation letters were used to grant “sub-licences” for the game [X2] PC-client, web and mobile games. This was in breach of CNE’s limited licence under the SLA, which CND / CNE acknowledged in early 2015 to mid-2016. Pursuant to the concession, CND / CNE agreed to inform CNB of all the “sub-licences” which had been granted, and to remit the profits made to CNB and CNC.17 CNA and CNB diverged in their responses to this. 18 In or around August 2016, CNA issued an authorisation letter for CND and CNE covering the period of 29 September 2015 to 28 September 2017 (the “2016 Authorisation Letter”). The 2016 Authorisation Letter purported to give CND and CNE the rights to “compile and permit use by third party” and “transfer and sub-authorize all rights under this contract to a third party”. 19 CNB commenced the Present Arbitration on 18 May 2017 against CND and CNE for their breaches of the SLA. On 23 May 2017, CNC succeeded to all of CNB’s rights and obligations in respect of the game [X2], including the SLA, by way of a vertical spin-off.20 On 20 June 2017, CND / CNE requested a time extension from the ICC to enable them to consider CNB / CNC’s Request for Arbitration and to seek legal advice before filing their Answer. The ICC granted an extension of time until 18 August 2017. Between the request for the time extension and the deadline, CNA entered into the 2017 Extension Agreement with CND and CNE on 30 June 2017. Thereafter, CND and CNE filed their Answer, where they relied on the SHIAC Clause in the newly executed 2017 Extension Agreement to challenge the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.21 On 22 August 2017, CND commenced a parallel SHIAC arbitration against CNA seeking a declaration that the 2017 Extension Agreement was valid and effective. The tribunal in the SHIAC arbitration delivered its award on 23 January 2018, confirming the validity of the 2017 Extension Agreement. 22 In the Present Arbitration, the Tribunal was constituted on 27 December 2017. Following the award from the SHIAC arbitration,  CNB / CNC applied to the Tribunal for interim relief including the restraining of the enforcement of the SHIAC award. On jurisdiction, the claimants in the Present Arbitration (ie, CNB and CNC) argued that the ICC Clause applied such that the alleged breaches under the SLA fell within the Tribunal’s jurisdiction. The gist of the case mounted by the respondents in the Present Arbitration (ie, CNA, CND and CNE) was that the Tribunal lacked jurisdiction to determine whether the SLA was breached because the ICC Clause, which formed the basis of its jurisdiction, had been terminated, replaced and/or superseded by the SHIAC Clause in the 2017 Extension Agreement. 23 On 8 June 2020, the Tribunal issued the First Partial Award. On 31 July 2021, the Tribunal issued the Second Partial Award.24 In Originating Applications Nos. 2 to 5 of 2022, the claimants seek to set aside the Partial Awards on the following main grounds:a. First, the entirety of the First Partial Award should be set aside on the basis that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction over the entire dispute because the ICC Clause pursuant to which the Arbitration was commenced was terminated and/or superseded on 30 June 2017 by the SHIAC Clause in the 2017 Extension Agreement.b. Further, and/or in any event, the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to determine the validity of the 2017 Extension Agreement.c. Alternatively, the First Partial Award ought to be partially set aside because it exceeded its jurisdiction in ruling on whether CNA had breached the duty to consult under the 2004 Settlement Record and it had no jurisdiction to make orders and/or declarations in favour of CNB.d. Consequently, the Second Partial Award should be set aside to the extent that the First Partial Award is set aside.25 The defendants rely on the following key arguments:a. First, the Tribunal has jurisdiction over the dispute because the Present Arbitration was commenced before the 2017 Extension Agreement was signed.  b. Further, the Tribunal rightly exercised its jurisdiction under the ICC Clause because the 2017 Extension Agreement (containing the SHIAC Clause) is invalid. c. Even if the First Partial Award is partially set aside, there is no basis to set aside the Second Partial Award on costs. The costs awarded were based on the overall success on the jurisdictional and merits issues which would remain substantially the same even if CND and CNE succeeded on any of their alternative grounds.The court’s decision26 The standard of review applicable in the present case is a de novo review. Under the de novo standard of review, the court is unfettered by any principle limiting its fact-finding abilities. It is open to this court to place weight on the Tribunal’s primary findings of fact, if they are found to be useful, while coming to its own view on any secondary inferences, but the court is not bound to do so. In this case, there is basis for the Tribunal’s findings that CNA acted in haste and secrecy: at [79]–[84].27 In relation to the conduct of the plaintiffs, CNA entered into the 2017 Extension Agreement knowing full well that CNB did not want it renewed. CNA chose not to consult CNB on the terms of the renewal precisely because CNA knew of CNB’s concerns and objections to the renewal. This knowledge and motivation are apparent from the contemporaneous documents: at [94].28 On the applicability of the doctrine of separability, the doctrine does not have the effect of excluding the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to determine the validity of the 2017 Extension Agreement in any event. Although parties may exercise their choice of forum and governing law as arbitration is built on consent and party autonomy, this begged the question of whose consent and whose autonomy given that the governing law and forum were purportedly changed after an arbitration was filed under the original dispute resolution clause, knowing that CNB objected to any extension and would undoubtedly object to the change to the dispute resolution clause: at [101] and [104].29 The source of CNA’s authority to amend or extend the SLA on behalf of CNB is the 2002 Supplementary Agreement. Neither the Korean agreements nor the 2004 Settlement Record contain any language of entrustment of co-licensor’s rights. The recital itself is couched in the present and future tense, suggesting that the “entrustment” is not something in the past but something that is being achieved by the 2002 Supplementary Agreement. All parties considered it necessary to have a tripartite agreement. It is commercially sensible that any dispute that might arise concerning not only the performance of such obligations between CNB and CND / CNE but also the performance of any obligations of co-licensors or the licensee under the SLA should be resolved in arbitral proceedings to which they all could be parties, and under the same governing law. When CNA and CND had the opportunity to identify the source of CNA’s authority for the purpose of the 2017 Extension Agreement, they identified it as the 2002 Supplementary Agreement: at [133]–[138].30 There is no issue estoppel for the source of authority as the earlier interim award characterised the basis for the claims as being one between co-owners, with the Domestic and Overseas Agreements formulating and regulating their relationship concerning recognition of sales revenue, shares of commissions, royalties, development costs and other matters. In contrast, the Supplementary Agreement is primarily concerned with the licensing arrangements by both CNA and CNB (as one interest bloc) with CNE. The 2005 Interim Award does not contain any finding expressly or by necessary implication that CNA’s authority to act on CNB’s behalf in relation to CND was to be found in the Domestic or Overseas Agreement: at [117] and [118].31 If the source of CNA’s authority is the 2002 Supplementary Agreement, CNA breached duties owed to CNB / CNC under Singapore law. CNA owed a fiduciary duty to the joint interest of both co-owners, rather than in the sole interest of either of them. While the entirety of a relationship between two parties may not be fiduciary in nature, some activities undertaken within the overall relationship may have a fiduciary character. CNA in the exercise of its powers under the entrustment to extend or amend the SLA was subject to the fiduciary duty to act in the joint interest, which encompassed the equitable duty to exercise those powers in good faith and for proper purposes. Any good faith exercise of the power to extend or amend the SLA would entail consulting CNB. The express duty to consult under 2004 Settlement Record was not merely complementary to but reinforcing of the duty to act in good faith: at [143]–[145], [149], [151] and [166].32 In any event, even if the source of CNA’s authority is the 2004 Settlement Record, there was a breach of “Seonkwan Ei-mu” when CNA negotiated and executed the 2017 Extension Agreement on behalf of CNB without consulting CNB at all concerning the changes to governing law, seat and arbitral institution, and did not properly or genuinely consult CNB on the extension in general: at [175].33 On the alternative case brought by the plaintiffs which concerns the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on the Tribunal by the ICC Clause, the Tribunal had jurisdiction to (a) decide on the validity of the 2017 Extension Agreement; (b) determine the claims added by CNB and CNC after the 207 Extension Agreement was concluded; (c) ruling on whether CNA breached the duty to consult; (d) make orders and/or declarations in favour of CNB; (e) make the finding that the game [Y] was derived from the game [X2]; (f) determine the allegations against CND and CNE in respect of mobile games: at [182], [188]  [192], [195], [197] and [200].34 For these reasons, the claimants’ applications to set aside the Partial Awards on the basis that the Tribunal lacked jurisdiction are dismissed: at [205].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
