
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
30 April 2019
Case summary
Kok Yin Chong and others v Lim Hun Joo
and others [2019] SGCA 28
Civil Appeal No 230 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Justice Tay Yong Kwang):
Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against decision of the High Court to approve
the collective sale of Goodluck Garden. 
 
1             
This
is an appeal against the decision of the High Court to approve the respondents’
application for the collective sale of a residential development known as
Goodluck Garden (“the Property”).
 
Background
to the appeal
 
2             
The respondents were three members of the collective
sale committee (“CSC”) appointed by the Property’s subsidiary proprietors to act jointly as
their authorised representatives in connection with the collective sale application. In
the proceedings below, the respondents applied for an order for the collective
sale of the Property, pursuant to s 84A(1) of the Land Titles (Strata) Act (Cap
158, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LTSA”). The
appellants were the subsidiary proprietors who filed objections to the
collective sale.
 
3             
The
respondents’ application was allowed by a High Court Judge (“the Judge”).
Although the Judge found the conduct of the CSC and its agents wanting in
various respects, he concluded that the transaction was in good faith, taking
into account the sale price, which was $68m (or 12.55%) higher than the
valuation determined by an independent valuer.
 
4             
The appellants raised three issues on appeal. The
first was the “Voting Issue”: the appellants argued that the CSC’s failure to
obtain the approvals for the apportionment of sale proceeds and of the terms
and conditions of the Collective Sale Agreement (“CSA”) at a general meeting
was in breach of paras 7(1)(b) and
7(1)(c) of the Third Schedule of the
LTSA. They submitted that compliance with the Third Schedule was a threshold
requirement for the application for a collective sale. In other words, so long
as those provisions are breached, the Court would not have the jurisdiction to
hear an application for collective sale.
 
5             
 The second was the “Conflict of Interest Issue”. They pointed out
that the first and third respondents each had relatives who owned other units
in the Property, and submitted that these were conflicts of interest which were
not declared, in breach of para 2(1) of the Third Schedule of the LTSA. As a
result, the first and third respondents’ appointments to the CSC were void, and
thus the respondents’ application to the Judge below for the collective sale of
the Property was ultra vires.
 
6             
The third was the “DC Issue”. This related to the
development charge (“DC”) of the Property, which is a tax payable by developers
to the relevant authorities when planning permission is granted to carry out a development
project which increases the value of the land. The CSC had initially estimated
that the DC payable would be $63.2m, even though it turned out that no DC was
payable. The appellants argued that the failure of the CSC to inform the
subsidiary proprietors promptly when it emerged that no DC was payable and the
CSC’s failure to extend the closing date of the tender by at least a week to
allow potential bidders to respond to the new information (ie, that no DC was payable) was evidence of lack of good faith.
 
7             
In addition, the respondents disagreed with the Judge
on the issue of burden of proof in relation to establishing the presence or absence
of good faith. They submitted that the burden was on the appellants to prove
that the transaction was not in good faith and not on the respondents to prove
that the transaction was in good faith.
 
The Court’s decision 
 
8             
On
the “Conflict of Interest Issue”, the Court agreed with the Judge that the
words “if any” in para 2(1) of the Third Schedule meant that mere ownership of
other units in the Property by relatives would not necessarily give
rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest and that whether a conflict
arises would depend on the facts of each case. Thus, the appellants had to show
how the associates’ ownership of other lots in the Property gave rise to an
actual or potential conflict of interest (at [39]). The
appellants failed to do so. There was nothing in the evidence to suggest that the
first and third respondents’ relatives owned lots in the Property otherwise
than as residents (at [40]). 
 
9             
On the “Voting Issue”, the Court accepted that there
was a breach of paras 7(1)(b) and
7(1)(c) of the Third Schedule of the
LTSA. However, the Court held that the High Court had the power to validate and approve the application
even if there was non-compliance with the Schedules (at [54]). In the present case, it was not
disputed that a simple majority of the subsidiary proprietors who attended the
extraordinary general meeting (“EGM”) on 9 September 2017 signed the CSA that
day, after the EGM. It was also clear that the requisite number of subsidiary
proprietors had signed the CSA. As a matter of common sense, the subsidiary
proprietors would not have voted differently if a formal vote had been held at
the EGM. Therefore, the breach of paras 7(1)(b) and 7(1)(c) of the
Third Schedule was technical in nature and did not prejudice the subsidiary
proprietors on the evidence before the Court (at [60]). Thus, the Court approved
the application despite the failure to put the
apportionment of sale proceeds and the terms and conditions of the CSA to a
formal vote (at [62]).
 
10          
On the issue of burden of proof in the good faith
analysis, the Court held that it was for the appellants to point out by credible
evidence that the transaction was not in good faith (at [71]). As for the “DC Issue”, which the Court considered under the
broader question of whether the transaction was in good faith, the Court agreed
with the Judge that there was a clear relationship between the DC with the
reserve price as well as the bid price of the Property (at [78]). The Court also agreed that the DC
should have been verified before the launch of the Property for sale (at [79]), that the CSC should have informed
and consulted the subsidiary proprietors promptly when it discovered that no DC
was payable (at [81]), and that the
CSC should have extended the closing date of the tender by at least one week
(at [82]).
 
11          
As
for the pivotal question of whether those missteps were evidence of lack of
good faith, the Court first noted that the Judge did not find that the CSC and
its agents were dishonest or actuated by improper motives (at [83]). In the Court’s judgment, a finding
of want of probity will be present in the vast majority of cases where
want of good faith is found (at [85]).
On the facts of this case, the Court was of the view that the missteps were the
result of eagerness (or perhaps anxiety) on the part of the CSC and its agents to
conclude the sale, especially after receiving a bid which was much higher than
what was initially expected. There was insufficient material to establish that
the transaction was not in good faith (at [87]).
The Court also found that in all likelihood, no higher bid would have been received
even if the CSC had acted conscientiously (at [89]). The Court therefore dismissed the appeal.
 
12          
The
Court also expressed its views on privately-agreed court timelines. The Court
noted that the appeal proceeded on an expedited basis because the vendors
agreed with the purchaser that the sale and purchase agreement would be treated
as rescinded unless this Court delivered its decision by 25 March 2019, four
months after the Judge delivered his decision. The Court pointed out that this
deadline was unrealistic and did not appear to take into consideration the
rules regulating appeals from the High Court to the Court of Appeal (at [100]–[103]). The Court highlighted that even if all the requisite
documents for the appeal can be filed quickly, an early hearing date before the
Court of Appeal may not be available (at [103]).
Further, even if an early hearing date is made available, the Court of Appeal
may not be able to arrive at its decision within a very compressed time span,
especially if the appeal involves many parties and complex issues (at [104]). Accordingly, if a future
collective sale committee agrees to unrealistic timelines for court proceedings
which, if not met, could result in the rescission of the agreement for sale,
that collective sale committee and its advisors will have to bear the
consequences of that agreement (at [105]).
This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It
is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in
bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in
the Court’s grounds of decision
 
