
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
23 April 2019
Case summary
Yip Man Hing Kevin v
Singapore Medical Council and another matter [2019] SGHC 102
Originating Summonses Nos 8 and 9 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision
of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Judge of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon
Leong):
Outcome: C3J dismisses doctor’s appeal against conviction and sentence in
respect of his failure to ensure that adequate sick leave was given to a
patient; allows SMC’s appeal against sentence, suspending doctor for eight
months. 
Background
1             
The
appeals arise out of disciplinary proceedings in which the doctor, Dr Yip
Man Hing Kevin (“Dr Yip”), was charged and convicted of professional
misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of
the Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (“MRA”), and suspended
from practising for five months. Originating Summons No 8 of 2018 was Dr Yip’s
appeal against conviction and sentence. Originating Summons No 9 of 2018
was the Singapore Medical Council’s (“SMC”) appeal against the sentence
imposed.
The
material facts
2             
Dr Yip
was an orthopaedic surgeon practising at his own medical clinic located at the
Gleneagles Medical Centre.
 
3             
On
7 July 2011, Dr Yip examined the patient, a Chinese national who had
been working as a bricklayer at a construction site. The patient had fallen
from a scaffolding platform and was found to have suffered a fracture of his
right clavicle, two to four rib fractures, a 1cm head laceration and a wrist
contusion. Dr Yip operated on the patient’s right clavicle late on that
same day, and the procedure was completed in the early hours of 8 July
2011. Following a period of rest, the patient was discharged on 8 July
2011 at around 10.10am. Dr Yip gave the patient sick leave for 7 to
8 July 2011 (the two days he had spent in the hospital), and certified the
patient fit for light duties from 9 to 11 July 2011 (ie, from the first post-operative day).
 
4             
The
patient returned for a follow-up review on 11 July 2011. Dr Yip
certified the patient fit for light duties from 12 to 18 July 2011, and
scheduled a further follow-up review on 18 July 2011. On 18 July
2011, the patient returned for the second follow-up review. Dr Yip
certified him fit for light duties from 19 to 25 July 2011, and a third
follow-up review was scheduled for 25 July 2011. However, on 22 July
2011, the patient went to the Tan Tock Seng Hospital Emergency Department,
complaining of persistent giddiness, nausea and pain on the right side of his
chest. The patient was hospitalised and discharged on 23 July 2011 with
hospitalisation leave from 22 to 28 July 2011.
 
5             
On
24 October 2011, the patient lodged a complaint with the SMC against Dr Yip.
The essence of the complaint was that Dr Yip should not have given only
two days’ sick leave to the patient, which covered only the days of his
hospitalisation for surgery, and not his post-operative recovery. Dr Yip
was sent a notice of the complaint on 22 May 2012 and served a formal
Notice of Inquiry on 3 November 2015.
 
6             
A
total of three charges and three alternative charges were brought against Dr Yip
for professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the MRA pertaining to each of the three separate
occasions on which Dr Yip examined the patient (ie, on 8, 11 and 18 July 2011, respectively). In essence, the
charges and alternative charges were that Dr Yip failed to ensure that the
patient was given adequate medical leave.
 
7             
The
Disciplinary Tribunal (“the Tribunal”) convicted Dr Yip of the charges,
and suspended him from practice for five months. Dr Yip appealed against
his conviction and sentence, and the SMC appealed against the sentence
imposed.
The court’s decision 
8             
The
Court of Three Judges dismissed Dr Yip’s appeal against conviction and
sentence, and allowed the SMC’s appeal, suspending Dr Yip for eight
months.
 
9             
The
Court noted that the Tribunal’s approach in describing the standard of conduct
applicable to Dr Yip in the form of two separate and distinct standards
was apt to confuse. This was because the first standard (which required that
post-operative sick leave be given regardless of the availability of light
duties) would have been implicitly qualified by the second standard (which
allowed that light duties may be
given so long as the doctor has ascertained that adequate conditions for rest
and rehabilitation were available were the patient to perform those particular
light duties). Instead, the correct approach would have been to set out a
single applicable standard, requiring that the doctor examining a person in the
patient’s condition either issue the
patient sick leave, or certify him
fit for light duties, provided that he has ascertained that there are adequate
conditions for rest and rehabilitation. The Court observed that it would be
preferable in future cases for tribunals to adopt this approach, but noted that
in the present case, the result would in substance be the same regardless of
the approach adopted. Further, for present purposes, both parties had advanced their cases on appeal on the basis that two independent standards applied, and
the Court therefore proceeded with the analysis of the issues as they were
advanced by the parties: at [10], [55] and [65].
 
10          
The
Court was satisfied that there was no reason to disturb the Tribunal’s findings
on the evidence that it was not the practice to certify a person in the
patient’s condition fit for light duties from the first post-operative day, and
that Dr Yip had intentionally and deliberately departed from this
practice.  The medical literature
referred to by Dr Yip in support of his contention that immediate return
to light duties was possible pertained to patients with either a clavicle fracture or
a rib fracture, and not patients with multiple
fractures of the clavicle and the ribs: at [57]
to [64], and [68].
 
11          
The
Court also found no reason to disturb the Tribunal’s findings on the evidence
that Dr Yip had not ascertained the availability of adequate conditions
for rest and rehabilitation before certifying the patient fit for light duties.
Dr Yip’s claim that he had discussed the availability of light duties with
the patient and obtained his agreement to undertake light duties was first
raised only after disciplinary proceedings were instituted against him. There
was no record of any such discussion or agreement in Dr Yip’s clinical
notes, nor was it mentioned in Dr Yip’s explanation in response to the complaint.
Further, Dr Yip’s claim that he had prescribed light duties to facilitate
the patient’s rehabilitation as part of his patient management plan was
undermined by his admission that he did not know – and had not taken any steps
to find out in the course of the follow-up reviews – that the patient did not
in fact undertake any light duties at all: at [70] to [83].
 
12          
In
respect of the alternative charges, the Court observed that Dr Yip’s
conduct also constituted such serious negligence that it objectively
constituted an abuse of the privileges of being registered as a medical
practitioner. This would have founded a conviction on the alternative charges,
even if the charges had not been made out: at [84].
 
13          
On
the sentence to be imposed, the Court observed that the Tribunal should have,
in the present case, stated explicitly what the individual sentence was for
each charge, as opposed to imposing a sentence in the aggregate in respect of all
three of the charges. The Court further noted that the sentences should be made
to run consecutively as Dr Yip’s failure to issue an adequate duration of
sick leave on each of the three occasions that he saw the patient constituted a
separate and distinct default: at [90]
and [92].
 
14          
The
Court further noted that the most aggravating factor was Dr Yip’s complete
disregard for the patient’s welfare and interest. Dr Yip failed to
consider the patient’s multiple serious injuries a significant enough to warrant
sick leave. Most appallingly, he also failed to check as to whether the patient
had been coping with the light duties during the two follow-up reviews, despite
claiming that he had prescribed light duties as part of a post-operative
rehabilitation regime for the patient. In light of the above considerations,
the Court held that each charge merited a period of suspension of four months,
to run consecutively, giving an aggregate sentence of twelve months’
suspension: at [93] to [98].
 
15          
Finally,
the Court considered it appropriate to reduce the aggregate period of
suspension by one-third, taking into account the prejudice suffered by Dr Yip
owing to the SMC’s inordinate delay in the institution of proceedings
against him as well as the countervailing public interest in safeguarding the
health and safety of workers. As such, overall, an aggregate sentence of eight
months’ suspension was imposed: at [99]
to [107].
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
