
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
23 April 2019
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v Dinesh s/o
Rajantheran [2019] SGCA
27
Criminal Reference No 5 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered
by Sundaresh Menon CJ):
Outcome: The Court of Appeal answered two questions referred by the
Prosecution regarding the interpretation of s 228(4) of the Criminal Procedure
Code.
Background to the application
1          This
was a criminal reference brought by the Prosecution to refer two questions
concerning the interpretation of s 228(4) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap
68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”) to the Court of Appeal, specifically whether s 228(4)
applied to an accused person who, having pleaded guilty to an offence, then qualified
his plea in the course of his mitigation and thereby signalled that he no
longer wished to plead guilty. 
Facts
2          The
respondent had pleaded guilty to 20 charges under s 22A(1)(a) of the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act (Cap 91A, 2009 Rev Ed)
after accepting a plea offer from the Prosecution on the second day of trial. After
having been convicted on his plea, the respondent then sought to retract his
plea on the basis that he disputed various material allegations against him,
which allegations formed the crux of the charges faced. The respondent argued
that pursuant to s 228(4) of the CPC, since his assertions materially affected
the legal conditions of the alleged offences, the court was obliged to reject
his guilty plea. These assertions were subsequently framed as part of a
mitigation plea. The District Judge refused to reject the respondent’s guilty
plea, noting that the procedural safeguards relating to the taking of his plea had
been observed, and that the mitigation plea was an abuse of process and an
attempt to resile from his guilty plea. The respondent was thus sentenced
accordingly.
3          The
respondent thereafter filed a petition for criminal revision to the High Court
on the basis that the District Judge ought to have rejected his plea of guilt. The
Respondent framed his argument before the High Court on the basis that he
wished to include assertions in his mitigation submissions, the effect of which
would be to qualify his plea of guilt. The Prosecution took the position that
since the respondent’s mitigation submissions were in essence an application
for the retraction of his guilty plea, s 228(4) of the CPC was inapplicable,
and the respondent would thus have to show valid and sufficient reasons for the
retraction of his plea. The High Court Judge disagreed with the Prosecution and
set aside the respondent’s conviction, on the basis that s 228(4) CPC was
unambiguous and mandated a court to reject a plea of guilt where it has been
qualified in mitigation. In these circumstances, the Prosecution then filed the
present criminal reference to refer the following questions of law: first, does
s 228(4) of the CPC apply to a case where an accused person seeks to retract
his plea of guilty at the mitigation stage of sentencing; second, must an
accused person seeking to retract his plea of guilty at the mitigation stage of
sentencing satisfy a court that he has valid and sufficient grounds for his
retraction before the court can reject his plea of guilty? The Prosecution
argued that the first question should be answered in the negative and the
second question in the affirmative, whereas the respondent took the opposite
position. 
 
Decision of the Court of Appeal
4          The literal words of s 228(4) leave
very little room for any exercise of judicial discretion. The provision is
invoked whenever a court is satisfied that any matter raised in the plea in
mitigation materially affects any legal condition required by law to constitute
the offence charged. This provides a narrow scope of discretion but does not
permit the introduction of requirements not otherwise found in the words of the
provision. The court can examine whether the point raised in mitigation has any
substance because not every ostensible defence raised in mitigation would
require the court to set aside the conviction, but the subjective intention of
the accused person or the court’s opinion as to his factual guilt are
irrelevant: (at [28]–[34]).
5          The correct philosophical approach is
to view the whole plead guilty procedure as a continuum that begins with the
taking of the accused person’s plea and culminates in the pronouncement of the
appropriate sentence. It is the continuing duty of the court to be vigilant and
to ensure that the accused person maintains the intention to plead guilty
throughout this process, and this duty does not change between the
pre-conviction stage and the sentencing stage of the proceedings. When the
mitigation and sentencing process is regarded as part and parcel of the plead
guilty procedure as a whole in such manner, it becomes clear that the literal
interpretation of s 228(4) of the CPC does not undermine existing case law
pertaining to the validity of guilty pleas, but rather crystallises a further
safeguard before the plea can be safely accepted by the court as the legal
basis for a conviction. This is consistent with existing case law that where a
mitigation plea qualifies the earlier plea of guilt by indicating the lack of mens rea or actus reus, the accused person would not be taken to have admitted
to the offence without qualification and the plea would be rejected by the
court: (at [35]–[40]).
6          The effect of the Prosecution’s
interpretation of s 228(4) of the CPC would be to render it either otiose or
ineffectual. On the Prosecution’s interpretation, whenever an accused person
raises a point in mitigation that qualifies his guilty plea, he would first
need to obtain permission to retract his earlier guilty plea. If such
permission was obtained, the matter would proceed to trial and s 228(4) would
no longer apply; if such permission was denied, then s 228(4) would not
have the effect of mandating the court to reject the guilty plea: (at [44]).
7          The precedents relied on by the
Prosecution did not assist them as none of the cases involved a situation where
an accused person qualified his plea during
mitigation by asserting inconsistent facts, but where the court nonetheless
upheld the plea and conviction. The majority of cases cited fell into two
categories which did not concern s 228(4) at all. The only cases that concerned
s 228(4) were Koh Bak Kiang v Public
Prosecutor [2016] 2 SLR 574 (“Koh Bak
Kiang”) and Md Rafiqul Islam Abdul
Aziz v Public Prosecutor [2017] 3 SLR 619 (“Md Rafiqul”) and the conviction in both cases were eventually set
aside: (at [46]–[47]).
8          In the first category of cases relied
on by the Prosecution, the accused persons had been convicted and sentenced on
the basis of their guilty plea, before seeking to retract their plea at the post-sentence stage. In such cases, the
court would naturally take a dim view of the accused persons’ assertions, and will
only exercise its revisionary powers in cases of serious injustice: (at [48]–[51]). 
9          In the second category of cases, the accused
person at the post-conviction and pre-sentence stage had made allegations
attacking the integrity of the plead guilty procedure and sought on this basis
to retract his guilty plea. Given the seriousness of any allegations that aim
to cast doubt on the legality and propriety of legal proceedings, the court
will take steps to ascertain the truth of the matter in such circumstances, and
the onus would be on the accused person to adduce sufficient evidence to prove
his assertions: (at [52]–[54]).
10        Cases in the third category are true
cases of the guilty plea being qualified during mitigation, where an accused
person puts forth assertions in mitigation that qualify his guilty plea because
they are inconsistent with material elements of the offence. Of the cases
cited, only Koh Bak Kiang and Md Rafiqul fall into this category. In
these cases, s 228(4) of the CPC applies and the court ought to reject the plea
because it has been qualified in mitigation. This indeed was the position taken
by the High Court in both these cases: (at [61]–[64]).

11        Section 228(4) of the CPC thus
establishes a general rule that where an accused person asserts facts in
mitigation which undermine a legal condition constituting a material element of
the offence, the court is bound to set aside the earlier guilty plea. This
general rule is subject to the qualification that a court will not be compelled
to do so where it is satisfied that the accused person’s conduct amounts to an
abuse of process: (at [66]–[67]).
12        The questions referred are thus reformulated
and answered as follows. The first question is: does s 228(4) of the CPC apply
to a case where an accused person seeks to qualify his plea of guilt, at the
mitigation stage of sentencing, to such an extent that it amounts to a
retraction of his plea of guilt? The answer to this is: yes, it does, save
where the court is satisfied that the conduct of the accused person amounts to
an abuse of the process of the court. The second question is: must an accused
person seeking to qualify his plea of guilt in the manner aforesaid, at the
mitigation stage of sentencing, satisfy the court that he has valid and
sufficient grounds for doing so, before the court may reject his plea of guilt?
The answer to this is: no, because it is sufficient that the mitigation plea
materially affects a legal condition of the offence: (at [71]–[72]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
