
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
11 April 2019
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v P
Mageswaran and another appeal [2019] SGCA 22
Criminal Appeals Nos 36 and 37 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision
of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven Chong):
Outcome: CoA dismissed the accused’s appeal against the High Court’s
decision on conviction and sentence as well as the Prosecution’s appeal against
the High Court’s decision to impose a sentence of 18 years’ imprisonment for
the offence of culpable homicide. In relation to the High Court’s decision to
convict, CoA rejected the accused’s submission that he had only acted with the knowledge that his acts were likely to
cause death, and agreed with the High Court that on the facts, the accused had
the intention of causing death. In
relation to the High Court’s decision on sentence, although the CoA disagreed
with the High Court’s finding that the accused had suffered from executive
deficits at the time of the offence, it held that the sentence imposed was nonetheless
not manifestly inadequate.
Introduction
1             
These
were appeals against the decision of the High Court to convict and sentence the
accused to 18 years’ imprisonment for the offence of culpable homicide.
Background
to the appeal
2             
The
victim was a family friend of the accused. On the day of the offence, the
accused had gone to the victim’s flat to borrow money. He asked the victim for
a loan to pay the deposit for his new home but the victim told him that she did
not have the money. While the victim was in the toilet, the accused searched the
rooms for valuables and eventually found a box of jewellery. He decided to
steal the box but the victim caught him red-handed and tried to stop him. He
pleaded with her to let him have the box but she refused. A scuffle ensued
during which the accused strangled and suffocated the victim to death.
3             
At the
trial, the accused’s only contention was that he had acted merely with the
knowledge that his acts were likely to cause death. A conviction
on this basis would have attracted a maximum imprisonment term of 10 years. The
Prosecution sought to prove that the accused had acted with the intention of
causing death. A conviction on this basis would have attracted a maximum
punishment of life imprisonment, or an imprisonment term which may extend up to
20 years.
4             
The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) agreed with the
Prosecution and convicted the accused on the basis that he had acted with the
intention of causing death. The Judge relied principally on the nature and
severity of the injuries caused to the victim, the significant amount of force
the accused applied to strangling the victim, which caused fractures to the bony
structures buried deep underneath layers of muscle in the neck, as well as the
extended period of time (approximately 10 minutes) that the accused had
suffocated the victim. The Judge concluded that those facts demonstrated that
the accused had the intention of killing the victim.
5             
The Judge sentenced the accused, who could not be
caned due to his age at the time of sentencing, to an 18-year imprisonment
term. Amongst other considerations, the Judge took into account the aggravating
circumstances surrounding the nature of the crime as well as the accused’s
antecedents. These were balanced against mitigating factors, such as a medical
report tendered by the accused claiming that the accused had laboured under
executive deficits at the time of offending, which had significantly limited
his ability to exercise self-control.
6             
The two issues in these appeals were whether the Judge
was correct on the conviction and the sentence.
The court’s decision 
7             
On the question of the conviction, the court agreed
with the findings and decision of the Judge below that the accused had acted
with the intention of causing the victim’s death (at [24]). The court
rejected the accused’s submission that he had only grabbed the victim’s jaw to
silence her, as this would not have explained the neck injuries found on the
victim (at [26]). The
court also accepted the victim’s account that he had noticed signs of life in the
victim after he stopped suffocating her and before he left the scene. But the
court disagreed with the accused’s submission that this meant that he had no
intention of killing the victim. In the court’s view, the question of the
accused’s intention must be examined at the time when he was strangling and
suffocating the victim. The nature and severity of the victim’s injuries as
well as the significant force applied by the accused on a vulnerable part of
the victim’s body for an extended period of time meant that the accused had the
intention of causing death, and had acted on that very intention in that
fateful 10 minutes or so (at [29]).
It was clear to the court that the accused wanted to ensure that the victim would
not live to identify him.
8             
Having
upheld the conviction, the court considered whether the 18-year imprisonment
term imposed by the Judge ought to be disturbed. The court noted that since the
Prosecution was submitting for the maximum sentence of life imprisonment under
the relevant punishment provision, it bore the burden of demonstrating that the
present case was one of the worst type of cases of culpable homicide (at [31]). The court observed that it would
take an exceptional case, devoid of mitigating circumstances, for a sentencing
court to be satisfied that a case was one of the worst type of cases of
culpable homicide (at [49]). The
present case, although deplorable, was not the worst of its type. The accused
had not gone to the victim’s flat with the intention or plan of robbing and
killing her. The case was an unfortunate instance of a theft gone wrong as a
result of a wretched confluence of circumstances (at [50]).
9             
The
court found, contrary to the Judge’s finding, that the medical report claiming
that the accused had suffered from executive deficits at the time of the
offence could not properly be relied upon (at [52]). That said, while the court observed that a sentence of 20
years might have been more appropriate, it took the view that the 18-year
imprisonment term was not manifestly inadequate so as to warrant appellate
intervention (at [57]).
It therefore upheld the Judge’s decision on sentence as well.
This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It
is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in
bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in
the Court’s grounds of decision.
