
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
10 April 2019
Case
summary
Ahmad
Kasim bin Adam (suing as an Administrator of the estate of Adam bin Haji Anwar
and in his own personal capacity) v Moona Esmail Tamby Merican s/o Mohamed
Ganse and others [2019] SGCA 23     
Civil
Appeal No 4 of 2017
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered
by Judith Prakash JA):
Court of Appeal grants
declaration that deceased had acquired title to land by adverse possession,
prior to State acquisition; but holds that there is no legal basis under
statute to award compensation.
Background


The appeal concerned the
    compulsory acquisition of a piece of land in Bedok (“the Land”). Until 2009,
    most of the Land was used as a cemetery. There was also a house on the Land
    (“the House”), occupied by members of the appellant’s family until 2016. The Land
    was gazetted for compulsory acquisition by the government in November 1987, and
    title to it vested in the State about ten months later. At the time of the
    acquisition, the most recent traceable title to the Land showed that it
    belonged to the first respondent, who had bought the land in 1888 and mortgaged
    it to the second respondent. In 1988, the Collector of Land Revenue (“the
    Collector”) awarded a sum of $18,800 (“the Award”) as compensation for the
    acquisition to the first and second respondents (“the paper owners”) under s 10
    of the Land Acquisition Act (Cap 152, 1985 Rev Ed) which was in force at the
    time of the acquisition (“the 1987 LAA”). No one attended the hearing before
    the Collector. As neither of the paper owners collected the Award, the Collector
    paid the sum into court: at [1], [2] and [9].


The appellant, Ahmad Kasim bin
    Adam (“Mr Ahmad”), brought proceedings in his personal capacity and as
    administrator of the estate of his late father, Adam bin Haji Anwar (“Mr
    Adam”). He claimed that from the 1950s up till recently, his family had lived
    in the House and occupied the Land as caretakers of the cemetery. They
    continued to live on the Land even after 1988 without knowing that the Land had
    been acquired by the State. Mr Ahmad sought declarations that he or Mr Adam had
    acquired title to the Land by adverse possession, that the Award made by the
    Collector be set aside and a re-hearing for the assessment of compensation be
    ordered because the Award was made without notice to him or Mr Adam. The third
    and fourth respondents were the Singapore Land Authority (“the SLA”) and the
    Attorney-General. They contested Mr Ahmad’s claim to title by adverse
    possession and his attempt to have the Award set aside: at [3] and [5].


According to Mr Ahmad, his late
    grandfather, Haji Anwar, began residing on the Land sometime in the early
    1950s. He cleared the vegetation on the land so that it was fit for use as a
    Muslim cemetery. He was then entrusted with the care and maintenance of the
    cemetery, and in return, he was given permission by the headman of the village
    then to build a simple house for his family on the Land. Haji Anwar built the
    House, and Mr Ahmad’s family resided there undisturbed until 2009. Mr Ahmad’s
    family continued to pay property tax, utility bills and television licence fees
    in connection with the House until 2013. Sometime in 2009, Mr Ahmad noticed
    that the graves on the Land were being exhumed. This prompted him to make
    inquiries, which led him to discover that the Land had been acquired in 1988. Eventually,
    the SLA wrote to Mr Ahmad to inform him that he was not entitled to remain in
    occupation of the Land or the House. After some negotiations, Mr Ahmad
    redelivered vacant possession of the House to the SLA on 30 June 2016: [6], [10], [13] and [18].


At the High Court, the Judicial
    Commissioner dismissed Mr Ahmad’s application, finding that Mr Ahmad failed to
    show that he or Mr Adam had acquired title to the Land by adverse possession.
    Further, even if Mr Ahmad could establish adverse possession, there was no
    basis for setting aside the Award. The Judicial Commissioner rejected the
    contention that the Collector had failed to comply with the procedural
    requirements under the 1987 LAA. Section 53 of the 1987 LAA also provided that
    no suit shall be brought to set aside any award made thereunder: [23] and [24].
Decision on appeal


The Court of Appeal found that
    Mr Ahmad had succeeded in showing that Mr Adam had acquired part of the Land by
    adverse possession. The Court of Appeal held as follows:


Mr Ahmad could not maintain a
        claim to the entire Land as it was freely accessible by members of the public
        and not surrounded by any form of enclosure, and there was no evidence that
        Haji Anwar, Mr Adam or Mr Ahmad controlled access to the cemetery in any way or
        that they did so as an assertion of their exclusive possession of the same. The
        affected area of the Land was thus limited to the area occupied by Mr Ahmad’s
        family as their residence. That was an area of 405.5m2, which
        comprised the House, open areas around the House and the additional area
        required to have access to the House: [41]–[45].


There was ample evidence that
        Mr Adam and his family occupied the House from as early as 1955 until at least
        1967. That satisfied the requirement for a continuous 12-year period of
        occupation: [47] and [51].


The occupation of the House by
        Mr Ahmad’s family was adverse to the interests of the true owner, and not
        permissive in nature. On Mr Ahmad’s account, it was the village headman who
        granted Haji Anwar permission to build a house on the Land. The true owners of
        the Land were the paper owners, and they had not granted such permission. The
        Court of Appeal also rejected the submission that the family possessed the
        House on behalf of the village headman only. The village headman had never
        asserted any right to the House against Mr Adam, and nothing in the grant of
        permission indicated that Mr Adam’s family had anything less than exclusive
        possession over the House: [53]–[57], [58] and [61]–[66]. 


Mr Adam and his family had
        demonstrated an intention to exclude all others from the House as far as was
        reasonably practicable. Although the family believed that the Land was waqaf land, their belief was erroneous
        because there was no evidence that the true owners of the Land had ever
        dedicated it as waqaf land. Further,
        what was required was not an intention to own or to acquire ownership of the
        land, but an intention to possess it. The family’s belief that the Land was waqaf land did not preclude an intention
        to exclusively possess the portion of the Land given to them as a benefit in
        kind for their caretaking services: [67]–[68].




The Court of Appeal thus
    granted declarations that Mr Adam had adversely acquired title to the House
    (occupying an area of 405.5m2) in 1967 by virtue of his adverse
    possession and that after his demise, such title passed to Mr Ahmad in his
    capacity as the personal representative of Mr Adam’s estate; and that all
    rights and title to the House held by the paper owners were extinguished in
    1967: at [69].


The question whether there was
    a breach of natural justice in the acquisition process turned upon whether notice
    may be deemed to have been served on Mr Adam by virtue of the posting of the
    Notice on the Land and whether the 1987 LAA required notice to be affixed to
    the House. However, it was not necessary to resolve this issue because even if
    Mr Ahmad were to succeed in proving a breach of natural justice, he would have
    no remedy before the Court of Appeal: [76].
    


There was no legal basis for
    the court to make a fresh award of monetary compensation to Mr Adam’s estate.
    First, it was not one of the reliefs prayed for in the Originating Summons.
    Second, and more fundamentally, the 1987 LAA did not give the court
    jurisdiction to issue a compensation award at first instance. Third,
    compensation was not a suitable form of relief for a lack of notice or a breach
    of natural justice in the making of the Award: [77]–[80].


There was also no legal basis
    for the court to set aside the Award by declaratory relief. Section 53 of the
    1987 LAA imposed an absolute bar on the issue of any court order declaring that
    the Award was invalid and should be set aside as null and void as had been
    prayed for in the Originating Summons. The appropriate procedure for
    challenging the exercise of the Collector’s powers was by way of the process of
    judicial review. The appropriate remedy for the alleged breaches, if
    established, would be to quash the Award and mandate that the Collector conduct
    a fresh inquiry. The Court of Appeal was thus unable to grant Mr Ahmad a
    declaration that the Award is null and void and should be set aside, or to order
    that the Collector carry out a fresh inquiry: [81]–[83] and [91].  


This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not
intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold
font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the
Court’s judgment
