
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
10 April
2019
Case summary
Wong Souk Yee v Attorney-General [2019] SGCA 25 
Civil Appeal No 73 of 2018
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision
of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: CoA finds that there is no duty to call a by-election when a
single vacancy arises in a GRC, but holds that the appellant need not pay costs
to the respondent.
Pertinent and significant points of the
judgment

   When
    amending the Constitution to implement the GRC scheme, Parliament never intended
    that a single vacancy in a GRC would trigger an obligation on the Government to
    call a by-election. Instead, a by-election would only have to be called if all
    the Members representing that GRC were to vacate their seats (at [53]). 



   The
    proper interpretation of Art 49(1) of the Constitution is that the words“seat of a Member” refer only to the seat of an SMC Member. There is therefore no
    requirement pursuant to Art 49(1) for a by-election to be called in
    Marsiling-Yew Tee GRC (at [73]).



      Where
    a serious question of constitutional law is raised, the court may in its
    discretion depart from the usual rule that costs follow the event (at [94]).


 
Background
to the appeal
1             
The
appellant (“the Appellant”) is a resident of Marsiling-Yew Tee Group Representation
Constituency (“MYT GRC”) and a member of the Singapore Democratic Party
(“SDP”). In the September 2015 general election (“the 2015 General Election”), she
contested MYT GRC under the SDP’s banner along with three other
individuals. A team from the People’s Action Party (“PAP”) eventually won the
election for MYT GRC. Mdm Halimah Yacob (“Mdm Halimah”) was the
only minority community candidate of that PAP team. Subsequently, Mdm Halimah
resigned her seat as a Member of Parliament (“Member”) for MYT GRC to
stand for the 2017 presidential election. No by-election was called, and MYT
GRC continues to be represented by the remaining Members of the PAP team which
won that constituency in the 2015 General Election.
 
The
proceedings below
2             
The
Appellant filed an application in the High Court seeking leave to apply for:
 
(a)         
a
mandatory order that the three remaining Members of MYT GRC vacate their
seats, and that thereafter, a by-election be held for MYT GRC;
 
(b)          
a
declaratory order that s 24(2A) of the Parliamentary Elections Act (Cap 218,
2011 Rev Ed) (“the PEA”) must be interpreted as requiring all the
remaining Members of a Group Representation Constituency (“GRC”) to vacate
their seats when a Member of the GRC vacates his or her seat, or in the
alternative, where the only minority community Member (“minority Member”) of the
GRC vacates his or her seat; and
 
(c)          
in
the alternative, a declaratory order that s 24(2A) of the PEA is void for
inconsistency with Art 49(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of
Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”).  
 
3             
At
the hearing before the High Court judge (“the Judge”), the Appellant and the
Attorney-General (“the Respondent”) agreed to have the leave application and
the substantive application for relief heard together.
 
4             
The
Appellant argued that the law required that the remaining Members of MYT GRC
vacate their seats and that a by-election then be held in MYT GRC. She
relied on three main arguments:
 
(a)          
first,
Art 49(1) of the Constitution mandates that a by-election must be called
when any seat in a GRC falls vacant for any reason other than a dissolution of
Parliament;
 
(b)          
second,
Art 39A(2) of the Constitution requires that there must be a minority
Member for a GRC until the dissolution of Parliament; and 
 
(c)          
third,
voters have the right to be represented by an elected Member of their choice
until the dissolution of Parliament pursuant to an “implied right to
representation” contained in the Constitution.
 
5             
The
Respondent, on the other hand, submitted that s 24(2A) of the PEA
specifically prohibited a by-election from being called when any seat in a GRC
became vacant unless all the other seats in that GRC had also been vacated. The
Respondent argued that on a proper interpretation of Art 49(1) of the Constitution,
the provision did not conflict with s 24(2A). The Respondent highlighted
that Parliament had expressly considered the issue of what would occur in the
event that a Member vacated a GRC seat, and had arrived at the conclusion
expressed in s 24(2A). The Respondent’s case was that Art 49(1) ought
to be given an updating or rectifying construction to take into account the
later introduction of GRCs; alternatively, Art 49(1) should be construed
as being applicable only to Single Member Constituencies (“SMCs”) and not to
GRCs.
 
6             
The
Judge rejected the Appellant’s proposed interpretation of Art 49(1) as
unworkable because it required the remaining Members of MYT GRC to resign
when there was no legal basis for compelling their resignation. He held that an
updating or rectifying construction should be applied to Art 49(1) to
reflect the changes introduced by the insertion into the Constitution of Art 39A,
which provided for the designation of constituencies as GRCs. He rejected the
Appellant’s arguments on Art 39A(2) of the Constitution and the “implied
right to representation” contained in the Constitution. In addition to denying
the substantive application for relief, he also held that the Appellant had not
shown an arguable or prima facie case
for granting the reliefs sought and thus declined to grant her leave to apply
for those reliefs. Costs were awarded against the Appellant.
The
parties’ respective cases on appeal
7             
The
parties’ respective cases on appeal were broadly consistent with their cases in
the court below. In addition to the arguments canvassed there, the Appellant contended
that an updating or rectifying construction of Art 49(1) as adopted by the
Judge would entail the court overstepping its constitutional role. She also
contested the Judge’s decision to award costs against her on the basis that her
application raised a legal question of genuine public concern. The Respondent
focused on the fact that on the Appellant’s own case, compelling the remaining Members
of MYT GRC to vacate their seats was a necessary precondition for making
an order that a by-election be held in MYT GRC; there was, however, no
legal basis to make such a mandatory order. 
 
 
The
issues on appeal
8          The
key issue in the appeal was whether the proper interpretation of Art 49(1)
of the Constitution mandated that a by-election had to be called in MYT GRC.
There were also four other issues for determination:
(a)        whether Art 39A of the Constitution
required that a vacancy left specifically by a minority Member of a GRC other than by the dissolution of
Parliament had to be filled by a by-election in any event;
(b)        whether, by reason of voters’ implied to
representation in Parliament, the Appellant was entitled to an order for a
by-election to be called in MYT GRC;
(c)        even if the Appellant failed in
obtaining the substantive reliefs sought, whether she had nonetheless made out
an arguable or prima facie case for
granting those reliefs such that leave ought to have been granted in the court
below; and
(d)        whether
the Judge erred in ordering costs against the Appellant.
 
The
Court of Appeal’s decision
The proper interpretation of Art 49(1)
of the Constitution
9          The
Court of Appeal (“the CoA”) highlighted the three possible interpretations of
Art 49(1) put forward by the parties in the context of a vacancy arising
in a single seat in a GRC:
(a)        the vacancy, as and when it arose, should be filled by a by-election for all the
seats in the GRC (“the Appellant’s Interpretation”);
(b)        the vacancy should only be filled by a by-election if
and when all the seats in the GRC had been vacated (“the Respondent’s First
Interpretation”); or
(c)      the “seat of a Member” in Art 49(1)
referred only to the seat of a Member of an SMC and Art 49(1) did not
apply to seats in a GRC at all (“the Respondent’s Second Interpretation”).
10        The
CoA found that Art 49(1) of the Constitution was ambiguous on its face in
relation to whether and how it applied to GRCs. The court noted that Art 49(1)
was originally enacted in 1965, when the concept of GRCs did not exist, and its
wording had remained largely unchanged since then. When read in the context of
the other relevant provisions of the Constitution, it was unclear whether Art 49(1)
was intended to apply to GRCs. Although Art 49(1) was phrased in terms
that might be wide enough to include the interpretation that a by-election had
to be called when a single seat in a GRC had been vacated, the Constitution was
conspicuously silent and did not expressly compel the other Members of the
affected GRC to vacate their seats in such a scenario. This was, however, a
necessary precondition before any by-election in a GRC could be held.
Additionally, it was common ground between the parties that there was a
legislative oversight in the implementation of the GRC scheme: Parliament had
intended that a by-election would only be called in a GRC if all the Members in
the GRC vacated their seats, but had omitted to include a provision in the
Constitution to this effect. In the light of this ambiguity, it was permissible
to rely on extraneous material to ascertain the true meaning of Art 49(1)
in relation to its application to GRCs (at [28],
[33], [43], [46] and [48]).
11        The
relevant parliamentary debates were clear on Parliament’s intention as to how
the GRC scheme was envisioned to operate in the event of a single vacancy in a
GRC: it was never intended that the Government would be obliged to call a by-election
in this scenario. Instead, a by-election would only have to be called if all
the Members representing that GRC were to vacate their seats. However, it was
unclear from the parliamentary debates how Parliament intended to effect this
outcome. It could be that Parliament had intended to amend the Constitution but
had inadvertently omitted to do so, or it could be that Parliament had simply
considered that the existing provisions in the Constitution were sufficient to
achieve its intended outcome. This distinction raised two points that had a
significant bearing on the question of how the court should give effect to
Parliament’s intention. First, if there was a reasonable possibility that
Parliament did not intend to amend the Constitution to put in place its
intended outcome, this raised the question of whether it was permissible for
the court to read in such an amendment. Second, the practical outcome in this
case could depend on the means by which Parliament had intended to effect its
intended outcome (at [53] and [54] to [56]).
12        Given
the lack of clarity on the means by which Parliament intended to achieve its
desired outcome, the CoA found that there was insufficient certainty to apply either
a rectifying or updating construction to the Constitution and construe Art 49(1)
in a manner that its express words could not fairly bear. Thus, the
Respondent’s First Interpretation was rejected (at [62], [67] and [69]).
13        Both
the Respondent’s Second Interpretation and the Appellant’s Interpretation did
not require adjustments to the language of Art 49(1). Between these two
interpretations, the CoA preferred the Respondent’s Second Interpretation
because the Appellant’s Interpretation led to the one result that Parliament
had expressly intended to avoid when it implemented the GRC scheme. To prefer
the Appellant’s Interpretation would have been contrary to the purposive
approach to constitutional interpretation which the court was bound to apply by
virtue of Art 2(9) of the Constitution and s 9A(1) of the
Interpretation Act (Cap 1, 2002 Rev Ed). While the Respondent’s
Second Interpretation was not ideal, in that it left the Constitution silent on
the filling of a vacant seat in a GRC, the CoA noted three points. First, the
court’s role was not to fashion the ideal formulation of the words of Art 49(1).
Instead the court was constrained to work with the text as it stood and to pick
from the range of permissible interpretations the interpretation that would
best accord with the underlying purpose of Art 49(1). Second, the
Respondent’s Second Interpretation accurately reflected the reality that at the
time Art 49(1) was enacted, Members of SMCs were the only type of Members
that the drafters of the provision would have had in mind. Third, the lack of
an express provision for the filling of vacancies in a GRC did not necessarily
mean that all the seats in a GRC could be left vacant without an obligation on
the Government’s part to call a by-election (at [70] to [72]). 
14        The
CoA thus held that the words “seat of a Member” in Art 49(1) referred only
to the seat of an SMC Member, and there was no requirement pursuant to
Art 49(1) for a by-election to be called in MYT GRC (at [73]). 
Article 39A of the Constitution and
minority Members of GRCs
15        The
CoA rejected the Appellant’s argument on this point because that argument
ignored the fact that in debating the amendments to the Constitution and the
PEA to put in place the GRC scheme, Parliament had specifically considered the
risk of minority representation being diminished if a minority Member of a GRC
vacated his or her seat, and had decided that this risk was an acceptable
trade-off for preventing a Member of a GRC from otherwise being able to hold
the rest of the Members of that GRC to ransom. To accept the Appellant’s
argument on this point would have been a reversal of the policy choice
expressly made by Parliament and would have resulted in the court overstepping
its constitutional role (at [75]).
The implied right to representation in
Parliament
16        The
CoA rejected the Appellant’s argument on this point because her contention,
taken to its logical conclusion, implied that the GRC scheme as conceived by
Parliament was inconsistent with the basic structure of the Constitution. The
court held that there was nothing in principle that would prevent Parliament
from devising the GRC scheme in such a way that a GRC could be left to be
represented by less than its full complement of Members. The court also found
that the Appellant’s reliance on Art 39(1)(a) of the Constitution to substantiate her argument was misplaced
because this provision did not deal with either by-elections or how mid-term
vacancies were to be filled; rather, it was meant to be descriptive of the
composition of Parliament (at [78]
and [82]).
Whether leave should have been granted
in the court below
17        The
CoA found that even though the Appellant had failed to prove that
Art 49(1) of the Constitution required that a by-election must be held in
MYT GRC, there was nonetheless an arguable or prima facie case for granting the substantive reliefs sought as her
arguments did disclose points on the proper interpretation of Art 49(1)
which warranted further consideration. The low threshold for granting leave was
thus met and leave ought to have been granted in the court below (at [86] to [87]).
Whether the Judge erred in ordering
costs against the Appellant
18        The
CoA accepted that where a serious question of constitutional law was raised,
the court might in its discretion depart from the usual rule that costs follow
the event. The CoA noted that in the present case, it had: 
(a)        concluded that the issues raised in the
appeal warranted leave being given to the Appellant to commence judicial review
proceedings; 
(b)        rejected the Respondent’s primary case;
and
(c)        reversed the basis and the effect of the
Judge’s decision, even though the result, at least as far as the Appellant was
concerned, remained the same.
In the circumstances, the CoA considered
that there should be no order as to costs both for the appeal and the
proceedings in the court below (at [94]
to [96]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
