
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
7 September 2018
Case summary
The Law Society of Singapore v Wong Sin Yee [2018] SGHC 196
Court of Three Judges — Originating Summons No 8 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Grounds of Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):
The Court of Three Judges explains why it disciplined and suspended Mr Wong Sin Yee for five years under the Legal Profession Act for his improper conduct of the cross-examination of a victim during a criminal trial. 
Background 


1     Mr Wong Sin Yee (“the Respondent”) was admitted to the Roll of Advocates and Solicitors of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Singapore on 12 August 1998. 
2     The present disciplinary complaint concerned the Respondent’s conduct when he acted on behalf of a client charged with outraging the modesty of a woman. In the course of cross-examining the victim on 3 August 2015, the Respondent first pressed the victim on whether she thought she was attractive and even suggested that he thought she was. During the same line of questioning, he required the victim to stand up and subjected her to physical scrutiny. When the victim asked if this was necessary and said that she was offended by it, he told her that he would be asking her even more insulting questions. The District Judge then intervened to find out what the point of the cross-examination was. It emerged that the Respondent was trying to mount a case that the victim was unattractive such that his client would not have been motivated to outrage her modesty and any contact that took place was accidental.


 


3     On 8 August 2016, the Attorney-General’s Chambers lodged a complaint against the Respondent with the Law Society of Singapore (the “Law Society”). On 11 October 2017, a disciplinary tribunal found the Respondent guilty of grossly improper conduct for the way in which he cross-examined the victim. The Law Society applied to the Court of Three Judges (“the Court”) for an order that the Respondent be made to suffer such punishment provided for in s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed).


The Court’s grounds of decision


4     After hearing the parties on 2 May 2018, the Court was satisfied that the disciplinary charges against the Respondent had been made out and that cause had been shown for sanctions to be imposed. Having regard to the nature of his misconduct, his lack of remorse and the long list of his antecedents, the Court suspended the Respondent for the maximum duration of five years, commencing on 16 May 2018. The Court also ordered the Respondent to pay the costs of the Law Society, fixed at $5,000, plus disbursements. 


 


5     In its written grounds, the Court sets out the ethical duties of counsel conducting cross-examination based on the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules (Cap 161, R 1, 2010 Rev Ed) and the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed). The Respondent’s conduct engaged the ethical rules pertaining to scandalous, annoying or humiliating conduct (at [26]). The criterion for permitting questions which are indecent or scandalous is relevance to the facts in issue. Questions “intended to insult or annoy” or which are “needlessly offensive in form” are, however, to be absolutely forbidden even if they may have some bearing on the issues before the court. It is a lawyer’s responsibility to exercise his or her own judgment to perform cross-examination in a respectful and honourable manner. (at [31]–[34])


 


6     The Respondent’s conduct of cross-examination of the victim was both irrelevant and wholly impermissible. Viewed objectively, the Respondent’s cross-examination did not relate to facts in issue or matters necessary to determining if the facts in issue existed (at [39]). It was cruel and humiliating to suggest to the victim that she was attractive, and to physically scrutinise her to the point that she felt uncomfortable and offended, only to then suggest that she was so unattractive that her testimony that she was deliberately molested could not be believed (at [41]). It was clear from the transcript that it was only because the District Judge imperatively put a stop to the objectionable line of questioning that the Respondent moved on to other matters (at [43]). 
7     Viewing the Respondent’s conduct objectively, the reasonable conclusion to be drawn, and which the Court did draw, was that the Respondent had embarked on this line of cross-examination in order to humiliate the victim. His conduct was disgraceful and a clear abuse of the privileges of cross-examination that are entrusted to an advocate. The Court was therefore satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that the charges of grossly improper conduct, improper conduct and breaching the Professional Conduct Rules had been made out (at [45]).


The appropriate sanction


8     The Court was satisfied that the present case called for the imposition of a heavy sanction. Members of the public who are acting as witnesses and thus assisting in the administration of justice should not be humiliated or insulted by solicitors acting for adverse parties. If the public perceives that lawyers are given free rein to treat witnesses and complainants badly, the public will not have confidence in the integrity of the legal profession or in the way that justice is administered (at [52]). Further, the Respondent had a long list of antecedents which cast doubt on his ability to act in a manner befitting a member of the legal profession and fully supported a finding that there was a defect in his character (at [55]–[59]). Finally, there were no mitigating factors, and the Respondent remained unremorseful before the Court (at [54]).
9     Although the Respondent’s behaviour instilled in the Court deep misgivings as to his character and suitability to practise as a lawyer at all, the Court considered that the case merited the maximum term of suspension rather than a striking off (at [61]). The Court expressed the hope that during the period of suspension, the Respondent would learn what constitutes acceptable behaviour both in court and outside it and that if and when he returns to legal practice he will conduct himself with moderation, discretion and restraint.
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
