
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
01 April 2019
Case summary
Li Shengwu v The Attorney-General [2019] SGCA 20]
Originating Summons No 893 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered
by Judge of Appeal Steven Chong)
Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses the appellant’s appeal, and upholds
service out of jurisdiction of the committal papers on the appellant 
Pertinent and significant points of the
judgment
·        
Court
of Appeal sets out the proper jurisdictional basis for contempt, and holds that
the High Court’s subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt proceedings is
based on the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction as a superior court, while its
personal jurisdiction over the individual contemnor who is located out of
jurisdiction is based on proper service of the committal papers in accordance
with the procedures set out in the Rules of Court: at [97]. 
·        
Service
out would not be allowed on the basis of O 11 r 1(t) of the Rules of Court, which came into force only after the
alleged contempt was published, as it only has prospective application, and to
find that it could apply retrospectively would cause unfairness to the
appellant: at [133]–[135].
·        
Service
out was properly granted on the basis of O 11 r 1(n) of the Rules of Court, which concerns a claim made under any
written law; here, the contempt proceedings constituted a claim brought under
the High Court’s subject-matter jurisdiction in such matters pursuant to which
it had the power to punish for contempt of court as was expressly provided for
under s 7 of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act: at [167].
Background to the appeal
1             
On 15 July 2017, the appellant published a post
on his Facebook page. The material part of the post stated that “the Singapore
government is very litigious and has a pliant court system. This constrains
what the international media can usually report”. The appellant later clarified
that his Facebook post was shared on the “Friends only” privacy setting, and
indicated his surprise that his post appeared to have attracted interest from
various media outlets and the Attorney-General’s Chambers (“AGC”). 
2             
On 21 July 2017, the Attorney-General (“AG”)
wrote to the appellant informing him that he considered the appellant’s 15 July
post to have been made in contempt of court. The AG asked the appellant to
purge his contempt by deleting and removing the allegedly contemptuous material
from his Facebook page and other social media accounts; giving a written
apology and undertaking not to republish the contemptuous material or similarly
contemptuous material; and issuing the written apology and undertakings prominently
on his Facebook page. The AG requested the appellant to comply by 28 July 2017.

3             
The appellant obtained an extension of time to
respond to the AG’s letter by 4 August 2017.
4             
On 4 August 2017, as the appellant had not
complied with the AG’s request, the AG commenced proceedings in Originating
Summons No 893 of 2017 (“OS 893”) for leave to apply for an order of committal
for contempt of court against the appellant. 
5             
On 8 August 2017, the AG wrote to the appellant
notifying him that OS 893 had been filed because of the appellant’s failure to
comply with the AG’s request. The AG offered to discontinue OS 893 if the
appellant published the apology and undertaking by 21 August 2017. 
6             
The appellant did not publish the apology or
undertaking by 21 August 2017. On 21 August 2017, the High Court granted leave
to the AG to apply for an order of committal against the appellant. 
7             
The appellant was no longer in Singapore by this
point in time. The AG applied for leave to serve the committal papers on the
appellant out of jurisdiction. Leave was granted, and the papers were duly
served personally on the appellant on 17 October 2017 at his US address. 
 
Application to set aside
service of committal papers
8             
On 22 December 2017, the appellant applied to
set aside the service of the committal papers out of jurisdiction in Summons
5843 of 2017 (“Summons 5843”). The appellant challenged the High Court’s
jurisdiction over him, on the basis that jurisdiction had not been properly
established because leave to serve the committal papers out of the jurisdiction
had been wrongly given. The High Court Judge (the “Judge”) heard this
application and dismissed it. 
9             
The Judge took the view that s 7 of the Supreme
Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (“SCJA”) conferred the High Court
with jurisdiction to commit for contempt. Service was not required to establish
jurisdiction under s 7, but the parties had agreed that proper service of the
committal papers in compliance with O 11 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5,
2014 Rev Ed) (“Rules of Court”) was necessary. The Judge held that the
committal papers were properly served out on the basis of O 11 r 1(n) and (s) of the Rules of Court, as the contempt proceedings were a claim
made under written law, that written law being s 7 of the SCJA, or
alternatively were also a claim concerning the enforcement of written law, the
written law again being s 7 of the SCJA.
10          
The appellant sought leave to appeal from the
Judge. The Judge refused leave to appeal. The appellant then sought leave to
appeal from the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal granted leave to appeal,
and formulated two questions for the parties to address in the appeal:
Question 1
(a) Was there any
statutory basis for the court to exercise substantive jurisdiction over a
foreign contemnor at the time of the commencement of proceedings? 
(b) If so,
identify the statutory basis.
 Question 2
If the answer to
Question 1(a) is yes and if O 11 r 1 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014
Rev Ed) is necessary to confer jurisdiction, does O 11 r 1(t) apply
retroactively or is there any other limb in O 11 r 1 that could apply in order
to confer jurisdiction by enabling service to be effected under that provision?

 
Arguments in the appeal
11          
In the appeal, the AG took the position that
because scandalising contempt was a type of criminal contempt, it was the High
Court’s original criminal jurisdiction as set out in s 15 of the SCJA that was
engaged. On this approach, jurisdiction was not established by service of the
committal papers in accordance with the procedures set out in the Rules of
Court. Instead, jurisdiction had already been established by virtue of the fact
that the appellant was in Singapore at the time he published the alleged contempt.
The AG accepted that service of the committal papers was still required, but
service only had the effect of giving notice to the appellant that contempt proceedings
had been commenced against him, and did not establish the High Court’s jurisdiction
over the appellant. Service of the committal papers out of jurisdiction was
justified on four limbs in O 11 of the Rules of Court, namely limbs (n), (p), (s)
and (t): at [51] and [125]. 
12          
The appellant’s position was that it was proper
service of the committal papers in accordance with the Rules of Court that
established jurisdiction over an alleged contemnor. The appellant’s case was
that the High Court had subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt
proceedings because the High Court and the Court of Appeal collectively
comprised the Supreme Court, the institution in which the State’s judicial
power was vested. Personal jurisdiction over the individual contemnor, however,
would also have to be established by proper service of the committal papers in
accordance with one of the heads of claim for service out of jurisdiction set
out in O 11 r 1 of the Rules of Court. Use of this procedure engaged the
original civil jurisdiction of the High Court, which was set out in s 16 of the
SCJA, and not the Court’s original criminal jurisdiction. In this regard, none
of the disjunctive limbs of O 11 r 1 relied upon by the AG was satisfied, and
thus leave to serve out had been wrongly given and service ought now to be set
aside: at [49]–[50].
Issue 1: The High Court’s jurisdiction to hear
contempt proceedings
13          
The Court of Appeal did not accept the AG’s case
that the High Court’s jurisdiction to hear contempt proceedings was based on
the High Court’s original criminal jurisdiction. The AG’s case depended on a
distinction being drawn between civil and criminal contempt, but there was no
real substantive difference between the two in principle: at [54]. Both categories of contempt had
been termed “quasi-criminal” in the established jurisprudence: at [56]–[57]. Further, the two broad
categories of contempt were materially aligned in terms of procedure, standard
of proof and punishment: at [59]–[61].
These similarities in substance and procedure were readily comprehensible by
virtue of the fact that both categories were directed at the same goal:
preserving the proper administration of justice: at [63]–[66]. Once this commonality of purpose, and similarities in
process and procedure, were taken into account, there was no reason in
principle to give the distinction between the categories of contempt such
significance that criminal contempt should be found to rest on the High Court’s
criminal jurisdiction, and civil contempt on the High Court’s civil jurisdiction:
at [67].
14          
The Court of Appeal also found that it was
incongruous to require service of committal papers in accordance with O 11 of
the Rules of Court if service did not have the effect of establishing personal jurisdiction:
at [91]–[94]. 
15          
The Court of Appeal preferred the appellant’s
approach that the substantive subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt
proceedings was based on the High Court’s inherent jurisdiction, which was also
recognised and separately conferred by s 7 of the SCJA, while personal
jurisdiction over an alleged contemnor located outside the jurisdiction would
be established by proper service in accordance with s 16 of the SCJA read with
O 11 of the Rules of Court: at [97].
Issue 2: Service in accordance with O 11 of the Rules
of Court
16          
Service in accordance with O 11 r 1 of the Rules
of Court being required, the Court of Appeal next considered whether any of the
disjunctive heads of claim, or limbs, of O 11 r 1 was satisfied. The AG argued
that service out was justified on four limbs of O 11 r 1, namely limbs (n), (p), (s)
and (t): at [125]. 
17          
The Court of Appeal did not accept that service
was permissible under limbs (p), (s) or (t). The Court of Appeal, however, accepted that service was
properly justified under limb (n),
which permits service out where the claim “is made under ….any other written
law”: at [150]. 
18          
The Court of Appeal held that it was up to the AG
how he wished to frame his claim against the appellant. Here, consistently with
his practice in contempt cases, the AG elected to frame his case as a claim
brought under s 7 of the SCJA: at [154]–[155].
This was not a case where a provision having no or only a very tangential
relation to the claim was being relied upon as the relevant written law; in
other words, the framing of the claim was not merely a matter of presentation
with a peripheral reference to some written law. Section 7 of the SCJA was the
relevant written law that expressly governed the scenario here – someone having
allegedly committed a contempt – by providing for both the subject-matter
jurisdiction as well as the power to punish the act; and it was that provision that
the AG properly made a claim under.
 
Conclusion
19          
The Court of Appeal noted that the High Court’s
subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt proceedings was not challenged in
this case. The Court of Appeal also considered that personal jurisdiction over
the appellant had been properly established by virtue of leave to serve out
having been properly granted pursuant to O 11 r 1(n). Subject-matter jurisdiction and personal jurisdiction both
having been established, the High Court’s jurisdiction over the appellant was
established. The appeal was therefore dismissed: at [172].
 
This summary is
provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It
is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in
bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in
the Court’s grounds of decision.
