
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
27 March 2019
Case summary
Thio Syn Pyn v Thio Syn
Kym Wendy and others and another appeal [2019] SGCA 19
Civil Appeals Nos 56 and 59 of 2018
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision
of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against decision of the High Court to value
the respondents’ minority shares without providing for a discount. It also
agreed with the High Court that, in the case of a non-quasi-partnership, there
should not be a presumption that minority shares would be valued at a discount
and that the court should look at all the facts and circumstances of the case
in arriving at its decision as to whether a discount ought or ought not to be
applied.
Introduction
1             
These
were appeals against the decision of the High Court to value the respondents’
minority shares without providing for a discount.
Background
to the appeal
2             
The
parties to these appeals were members of the Thio family. Three of the Thio
siblings were the respondents in these appeals (“the Respondents”). They were
the minority shareholders of MDI. Their brothers were the appellants (“the
Appellants”). They were the controlling shareholders of MDI. 
3             
In
earlier proceedings, it was found that the Appellants had acted oppressively
against the Respondents in relation to the management of MDI. The Appellants
were thus ordered to purchase the Respondents’ shares in MDI. As it turned out, the parties could not
agree whether a discount should be applied to the valuation of those shares. In
particular, they disagreed on the legal principles to be applied when the
company (in this case MDI) was not a “quasi-partnership” (a company run on the
basis of mutual trust and confidence between its controllers). They therefore sought a court
determination of the issue.
4             
Having considered the evidence and the parties’
submissions, a High Court Judge (“the Judge”) took the view that there is no
general rule when valuing
non-quasi-partnerships – the court must look at all the facts and circumstances
when determining whether a discount should be applied. Having considered the
facts and circumstances of this case, the Judge decided that the Respondents’
shares should not be valued on a discounted basis. 
5             
The sole issue in these appeals was whether the Judge was
correct to order that no minority discount be applied to the Respondents’
shares in MDI. This encompassed the legal issue as to whether there is or
should be a presumption that minority shares in non-quasi-partnerships should
be valued at a discount.
The court’s decision 
6             
On the legal issue, the court disagreed with the
Appellants’ submission that such a presumption should be applied. The cases
relied on by the Appellants did not support their argument (at [21]). The relevant legal literature also suggested that there
ought not to be a presumption of a discount. What the court
concerned ought to do is simply to look at all the facts and circumstances of
the case in arriving at its decision as to whether a discount ought or ought
not to be applied (at [32]).
7             
The
court however clarified that the aforesaid principle may not be applicable to
quasi-partnerships. The court noted that since these appeals did not concern
quasi-partnerships, it would not set out a definitive view in respect of
quasi-partnerships until an appropriate case comes squarely before the court
(at [35]). 
8             
Having
regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, the court agreed with the
Judge that the Respondents’ shares should not be valued at a discount. The
shares were transferred to the Respondents because their parents had wanted to
make “financial provision” for them. The court was of the view that the
Appellants’ oppressive conduct should not leave the Respondents worse off. It
also considered that allowing the Appellants to purchase the Respondents’
shares at a discount would undermine their parents’ intentions (at [37]).
9             
The
court also took into account the fact that the result of the buyout would be an
increase in the shareholding of MDI controlled by the Appellants from 56% to
76%. This would allow the Appellants to pass special resolutions and enable
them to alter or add to the constitution of MDI. The court was of the view that
such significantly increased control over the company after the buyout further
justified an order of no discount (at [38]).
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
