
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
20 March 2019
Case summary
Ma Wai Fong Kathryn v Trillion
Investments Pte Ltd and others and another appeal 
[2019] SGCA 18
Civil Appeal 44 of 2018 and Civil Appeal 45 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision
of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):
Outcome: CoA agreed with the HC’s decision
to dismiss the appellant’s application to wind up Trillion Investments Pte Ltd but
made an order for the winding-up of Double Ace Trading Company (Private) Limited
thus allowing the appeal in respect of the latter company.
Pertinent point of the judgment: CoA explained the law on winding up a
company on the just and equitable ground because it had lost its substratum. 
1          This
was an appeal against the decision of a High Court (“HC”) Judge who dismissed
the appellant’s applications to wind up Trillion and Double Ace. 
 
Background
to the appeal
2          The
appellant, Mdm Kathryn Ma Wai Fong, is the widow of the late Wong Kie Nie
(“WKN”) and the executrix of his estate. WKN was a Malaysian businessman and
one of the three sons of the late Datuk Wong Tuong Kwong (“Datuk Wong”). The
other two sons are Wong Kie Yik (“WKY”) who was the second respondent in both
CA 44 and CA 45, and Wong Kie Chie (“WKC”) who was the third respondent in CA
44 (at [3]).
3          Datuk
Wong was a highly successful Malaysian businessman. His business empire
comprised more than 50 companies operating in several jurisdictions. Trillion
and Double Ace (“the Companies”) formed the Singapore section of this empire
(at [5]).
4          Datuk
Wong managed all his companies from their respective inceptions till about 1990
when he suffered a stroke. WKN then took over Datuk Wong’s position and managed
the business empire until he himself fell ill in 2011. WKN was also a shareholder
and director of the Companies. WKN passed away on 11 March 2013 (at [4] and
[6]).
5          Since
WKN’s passing, the Appellant and the rest of Datuk Wong’s family have been
embroiled in litigation across multiple jurisdictions. According to WKY, as at
30 August 2017, 69 legal proceedings had been filed by the parties in Malaysia,
the British Virgin Islands and Singapore (at [13]).
6          In
August 2017, the Appellant (as executrix of WKN’s estate) filed originating
summonses to wind up the Companies under s 254(1)(i) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (the “Act”) (at [14]).
The appellant argued that first, the relationship of trust and confidence
shared between WKN, WKY and WKC (“the Wong Brothers”) in the running of the
Companies extended to the members of their respective families and this
relationship had irretrievably broken down (at [15]). Second, the Appellant
alleged that there had been mismanagement on the part of the directors and/or
employees of the Companies (at [16]). Finally, she alleged that there had been
a loss of substratum in respect of each of the Companies (at [17]).
7          The
HC Judge dismissed the appellant’s application to wind up the Companies (at [19]
to [22]).
 
Decision
on appeal
8          On
appeal, the Court of Appeal (“CoA”) agreed with the HC Judge’s findings that
the relationship of mutual trust and confidence shared between WKN, WKY and WKC
did not extend to the appellant and that there was no mismanagement of the
Companies.
9          However,
the CoA allowed the appellant’s appeal to wind up Double Ace on the just and
equitable ground because it had lost its substratum. The CoA held that the loss
of substratum argument could be relied on by any shareholder, not just one who
had been a member of the company since its incorporation (at [63]). A company’s
substratum is the main object which it was formed to achieve and when it is no
longer able to carry on that object, any
member may petition for a winding up order on the just and equitable ground. The
CoA held that this is only fair because in situations where the main objective
of the company can no longer be achieved through no fault on the part of the
parties, the unfairness lies in holding the parties to the association despite
the loss of substratum, and a winding up order under s 254(1)(i) is often justified (at [63]). 
10        Another
situation where the loss of substratum argument is available to an aggrieved
shareholder is where the company is effectively dormant at the time of the application
(contrary to what it was set up to do) and its finances are poor such that the
company is no longer viable. In such a situation, it can be said that the
company had stopped conducting the business it was set up to do and, given its
poor financial state, there is no longer any reasonable prospect that the
company will achieve its substratum (at [64]).
11        In
other words, the CoA held that the guiding principle to bear in mind when
assessing whether to wind up a company on the basis that it has lost its
substratum is to consider whether there is unfairness in keeping the aggrieved
shareholder (irrespective of her reason for becoming a member of the company)
locked into a company which is no longer carrying out and/or can no longer
carry out the business it set out to do (at [65]).
12        The
CoA found on the facts that Trillion had not lost its substratum since it was
still acting as an investment holding company but Double Ace had because it stopped
conducting business after WKN fell ill in 2011. In that light, the CoA dismissed
the appeal in CA 44 but allowed the appeal in CA 45 and ordered the winding up
of Double Ace.
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
