
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 April 2023 Case summaryLiu Shu Ming v Koh Chew Chee [2023] SGHC(A) 15Appellate Division of the High Court – Civil Appeal No 23 of 2022 and Summons No 28 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):Outcome: AD allows the appeal, setting aside the award of damages and interest. The Appellants are to transfer, free of encumbrance, title of the Units and to give possession thereof to the Respondent’s nominee. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  There is a process by which parties can, if they so choose, adduce further evidence on appeal. A formal application to do so must be made. It does not suffice to drip-feed materials to the court by way of letters or emails to the Registrar/Registry of the Supreme Court: at [58]. •  As Ms Koh had not validly terminated certain contracts in question (the “Contracts”), she was not entitled to claim either expectation or reliance damages on the basis of termination. However, even if Ms Koh had validly terminated the Contracts, she was not entitled to an award of reliance damages just because she failed to prove expectation damages. The starting point is the underlying principle governing the award of contract damages. That principle stipulates that the innocent party is to be placed in the position that he would be in had the contract been performed and he is therefore entitled to expectation damages. Reliance damages are not awarded on a different basis from expectation damages. As to when reliance damages may be claimed, the impossibility of proving expectation damages is not a prerequisite which a plaintiff must always meet before they are entitled to such a claim. That being said, it is not open to a plaintiff to claim reliance damages simply because he chooses not to adduce evidence of expectation damages. Such a plaintiff does not have an unfettered option to switch to a claim for reliance damages and the court does not have a wide discretion to grant such damages in every case even when such damages are not pleaded: at [123] – [127], [132], [134], [217]. •  Parties who assert the existence of certain facts must adduce evidence in support of their claims. Conceptual questions may, at times, be coated with an evidential veneer. But this evidential veneer is important and should not be ignored. After all, it is the evidence adduced by parties that provides the basis on which the trial judge makes findings of facts before applying the law to those facts. Parties who fail to put forth evidence in support of their claim must let the chips lie where they have fallen: at [218]. Background to the dispute1 The Appellants, Mr Liu Shu Ming (“Mr Liu”) and Ms Tong Xin (“Ms Tong”) were involved in the “condotel” business where they provided condominium units for short-term accommodation. They ran this business through a company called “MaxStays” in the Philippines. In 2016, the Appellants wanted to expand their business and began looking for investors. One such investor they sought out was the Respondent (“Ms Koh”). 2 This was the investment offered by the Appellants: the investor would purchase condominium units and lease them back to the Appellants at a rate amounting to approximately 6–7% of the annual return on the principal purchase price. 3 Ms Koh found this rate of interest attractive and became an investor. On 30 May 2017, she entered into a series of agreements (the “Contracts”) with the Appellants. These were made up of two components. a. First, an agreement for Ms Koh to purchase five condominium units (“the Units” and “the Purchase Agreement”). The Units consisted of three units, ie, Unit 806A, 615A and 614A at Fort Victoria (“the Victoria Units”) and two units, Unit 18H and 18B of Alessandro Tower at the Venice Residences (“the Venice Units”). b. Second, an agreement for the Appellants to rent the Units from Ms Koh for an initial period of three years (“the Leaseback Agreement”). This component of the agreement was where Ms Koh would earn her return on investment, as the rent paid to her was meant to amount to around a 6 – 7% annual return. The Leaseback Agreement is renewable every three years.4 Both the Purchase Agreement as well as the Leaseback Agreement were captured in writing, which took the form of a “leaseback guarantee” and a “receipt”. As a preliminary point, while it was recognised by the Judge that the receipts did not constitute an agreement for the sale of land nor did the leaseback guarantee constitute an investment contract per se, nothing turns on this because it was accepted by the parties that there was an agreement for the sale and leaseback of the Units.5 Apart from the Purchase Agreement and the Leaseback Agreement, one other important component of the deal struck between the parties, according to Ms Koh, was that if the market price of the Units had fallen upon the expiry of the leaseback period, the Appellants would buy the Units back from Ms Koh at the principal purchase price paid. However, if the market price of the Units had gone up, Ms Koh could sell the Units on the open market (the “Alleged Buyback Term”). 6 The Judge, however, found that Ms Koh had not proved the existence of the Alleged Buyback Term. Amongst other reasons, the Judge held that if the Alleged Buyback Term was so important to Ms Koh entering into the Contracts, she would have at least queried whether that term was still on the table given that it was missing from the written documents (ie, the leaseback guarantee and receipt) which the Appellants had produced for her signature shortly after she had orally accepted the Contracts. Ms Koh did not challenge the Judge’s findings on this point in the present appeal. 7 The Appellants began falling behind on rental payments in late 2019. To explain this, Mr Liu told Ms Koh in a WeChat message on 15 October 2019 that he was facing financial difficulties and thus could not pay the rent.     8 Investigations by Ms Koh through her solicitors showed that the Units were encumbered. Specifically, she found that there were mortgages over the Victoria Units, that the Appellants had assigned their rights and interests in the units to MaxStays, and that MaxStays had in turn assigned these rights and interests to the Philippine National Bank. With regard to the Venice Units, she similarly discovered that the Appellants had assigned their rights and interests in these units to MaxStays.9 Ms Koh, accompanied by her husband, met with Mr Liu on 16 November 2019. Mr Liu tried to explain the current state of affairs, and the meeting ended with some suggestion that a resolution of their dispute would be forthcoming. 10 Further communications between parties regarding this potential resolution, however, bore no fruit. Ms Koh allegedly terminated the Contracts on 27 December 2019 and subsequently commenced a suit against the Appellants in the High Court for breach of contract and fraudulent misrepresentation. The decision of the General Division of the High Court11 The Judge allowed Ms Koh’s claim for breach of contract but dismissed her claim for fraudulent misrepresentation. The Judge ruled that Ms Koh was entitled to recover S$1,468,895.69 as her full payment of the purchase price and ₱340,504.50 as her costs of incorporating a Philippine company, LK (Philippines), to be her nominee to whom title was to be transferred. The Judge then set-off the sum of S$202,727 which Ms Koh had received as rental payments from the leaseback arrangement. The Judge ordered the Appellants to pay the net sum to Ms Koh, ie, S$1,266,168.69 and   ₱340,504.50 with the latter to be converted to Singapore dollars on the date when execution was authorised.12 The Appellants filed an appeal against the Judge’s decision. In addition, the Appellants also sought leave from the Appellate Division of the High Court in AD/SUM 28/2022 to adduce further evidence for the appeal. The decision of the Appellate Division of the High CourtApplication for leave in AD/SUM 28/2022 to adduce further evidence for the appeal 13 The Appellants sought leave to adduce further evidence for the appeal. The further evidence which the Appellants sought to adduce allegedly showed that the Appellants had been willing to transfer title to the Units, but were unable to do so as Ms Koh had not complied with the requirements for transfer: at [30]. 14 The Appellants’ application for leave to adduce further evidence for the appeal was dismissed. First, it was clear that the further evidence which the Appellants were trying to adduce could have been obtained in time for the trial. Second, and more importantly, the further evidence which the Appellants sought to adduce was irrelevant to the determination of the present dispute. This was because the Appellants themselves had conceded, in their pleaded defence, that they were obliged to transfer title to Ms Koh once she had informed them of her choice of nominee. The question was whether Ms Koh had informed the Appellants of her choice of nominee such that the Appellants were obliged to effect the transfer of title: at [35] – [36] and [40].15 Apart from the Appellants formal application in AD/SUM 28/2022 to adduce further evidence, the Appellants had also sought to introduce some more new evidence by letter, some eight days before the hearing of the appeal. This attempt to adduce new evidence was also rejected. The credibility of the new evidence and its significance was unclear. In any case, the new evidence was immaterial to the determination of the issues in the suit. In particular, the new evidence did not shed light on whether the Appellants had all the necessary details from Ms Koh in order to effect the transfer of title to the Units: at [53] – [56].   Whether the Judge was correct in finding that the Appellants had breached the Contracts because they did not transfer title of the Units to Ms Koh and whether Ms Koh had validly terminated the Contracts16 The Appellants were obliged to transfer title of the Units within a reasonable time. This meant that the transfer had to be done, at the very latest, by 24 August 2019 which was 12 months after Ms Koh had informed Mr Liu of the nominee to whom the title of the Units was to be transferred. There was no reason as to why the Appellants could not effect the transfer of title. It was not the case that Ms Koh had failed to provide the required documents, specifically a board resolution from her nominee and a Business Information Sheet, in order to effect the transfer. The Appellants did not plead that Ms Koh’s failure to provide the required documents was a reason for the non-transfer of title. There was also no evidence to support such an argument. Finally, there was no merit to the Appellants’ argument that there was a shortfall in payment by Ms Koh of the purchase price for the Victoria Units, and that this shortfall had to be paid before they were obliged to transfer the title. The Appellants could not show that there was a shortfall in the payment of the purchase price of the Victoria Units and could not use this as a reason for not transferring the Units or as a counterclaim or set-off against Ms Koh’s claim for damages: [70] – [79], [84]. 17 The Appellants were thus in breach of the Contracts. By the time Ms Koh had purportedly terminated the Contracts on 27 December 2019, the Appellants still had not transferred title. This was more than a year after 24 August 2019, which was the latest date by which the Appellants were obliged to effect transfer of the title: at [80] – [85].18 While the Appellants were in breach of the Contracts, Ms Koh had failed to plead that there was a breach of a condition which entitled her to terminate the Contracts. Leaving aside the pleading issue, Ms Koh did not validly terminate the Contracts. Here, the Judge had erred in finding that the Contracts were validly terminated on 27 December 2019 by way of a letter sent by Ms Koh’s lawyers at the time. Ms Koh was therefore not entitled to claim either expectation or reliance damages on the basis of termination. However, Ms Koh was still entitled to seek performance of the Contracts which the Appellants allege that they were willing and able to perform. Accordingly, and in light of the Appellants’ continuing breach of the Contracts, the Appellants were ordered to transfer, free of encumbrance, title of the Units, and to give possession thereof, to the nominee of Ms Koh: at [86] – [113].Whether the Judge was correct in awarding reliance damages 19 Ms Koh had sought to recover her principal investment of S$1.5m on the basis of the Alleged Buyback Term. If the Appellants had performed the Contracts, Ms Koh would have recovered her principal investment. However, the Judge had found that there was no Alleged Buyback Term. This meant that damages would be measured by taking the market value of the property at the time when title should have been transferred and deducting the contract price if that had not already been paid. The difficulty which the Judge faced was that Ms Koh did not adduce clear evidence to establish when title should have been transferred, and, more importantly, she did not adduce evidence to prove the market value of the Units. Ultimately, the Judge concluded that, notwithstanding Ms Koh’s failure to adduce evidence of the market value of the Units, damages in this case could, and should be awarded on the reliance basis: at [19] – [21]. 20 The Judge had erred in awarding Ms Koh reliance damages. It was not open to the Judge to award reliance damages to Ms Koh after she had failed to prove expectation damages. The starting point is the underlying principle governing the award of contract damages. That principle stipulates that the innocent party is to be placed in the position that he would be in had the contract been performed and he is therefore entitled to expectation damages. Reliance damages are not awarded on a different basis from expectation damages. It is not open to a plaintiff to claim reliance damages simply because he chooses not to adduce evidence of expectation damages. Such a plaintiff does not have an unfettered option to switch to a claim for reliance damages and the court does not have a wide discretion to grant such damages in every case even when such damages are not pleaded. As to when reliance damages may be claimed, the impossibility of proving expectation damages is not a prerequisite which a plaintiff must always meet before they are entitled to such a claim. Reliance damages are usually available if it is impossible or at least extremely difficult for a plaintiff to prove his expectation damages in the usual way or if his contract was not for profit. Here, Ms Koh’s case was not one where it was impossible, or at least extremely difficult to prove expectation damages. Ms Koh had failed to prove expectation damages and was therefore not entitled to an award of reliance damages: at [123] – [127], [132], [134], [217] – [218]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
