
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE1 December 2023Case summarySingapore International Commercial Court Originating Application No 14 of 2023Gate Gourmet Korea Co, Ltd & ors v Asiana Airlines, Inc [2023] SGHC(I) 23---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Simon Thorley IJ):Outcome: The SICC grants anti-suit injunctions against Asiana Airlines, Inc in respect of two civil suits commenced in Korea in breach of arbitration agreements between the parties. Background 1. This is the latest round in the long running dispute between the parties surrounding four agreements relating to the provision of catering facilities to Asiana Airlines, Inc (“Asiana”). 2. There are four applicants (the “Applicants”): the 1st Applicant, Gate Gourmet Korea Co Ltd (“GGK”), is a Korean company engaged in the business of providing catering and other services to the airline industry. It is a joint venture between the 2nd Applicant, Gate Gourmet Switzerland GMBH (“GGS”) and Asiana. GGK’s main customer is Asiana.  GGS is a Swiss company which provides in-flight catering and other airline handling services.  GGS and GGK are part of the Gate Gourmet group of companies of which the 3rd and 4th Applicants, Mr Christoph Schmitz (“Mr Schmitz”) and Mr Xavier Rossinyol Espel (“Mr Rossinyol”) (collectively, “the Directors”), are, respectively, the current and former Chief Executive Officers. 3. The four agreements that form the subject of the dispute are: a. a Joint Venture Agreement between GGS and Asiana (the “JVA”);b. a Catering Agreement between GGK and Asiana (the “CA”);c. a Bonds with Warrants Subscription Agreement between Gategroup Financial Services SarL and Kumho & Company Inc (GGS’s and Asiana’s respective affiliate companies); andd. a Management Services Agreement between GGS and GGK.4. The agreements were negotiated on behalf of the Kumho Asiana Group by, amongst others, Mr Park Sam-Koo (“Chairman Park”) who was at the time Chairman of the Kumho Asiana Group and co-CEO of Asiana. He also held key positions in other companies of the group and was a significant shareholder in the Kumho Asiana Group.5. Both the JVA and the CA contained arbitration agreements (respectively, the “CA Arbitration Agreement” and the “JVA Arbitration Agreement”) in substantially the same form.6. A dispute arose between the parties concerning the pricing mechanism for catering services that GGK was to provide to Asiana and the matter was referred to arbitration on 17 June 2019 by GGK, who sought an order that Asiana pay all outstanding invoices and a declaration that the pricing mechanism was binding and did not require any further agreement. Asiana counterclaimed for a declaration that GGK was bound to negotiate and agree with Asiana on an adjusted price mechanism and for an order that GGK repay excess payments based on that adjusted price mechanism.7. By its award dated 18 February 2021 (“the Final Award”), the arbitral tribunal (the “Tribunal”) upheld GGKs’ claims and dismissed Asiana’s counterclaim. On 11 June 2021, Asiana commenced SIC/OS 11/2021 (“OS 11”) in the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) to set aside the Final Award. OS 11 was dismissed by a Judgment dated 27 May 2022 (Asiana Airlines, Inc v Gate Gourmet Korea Co, Ltd and others [2022] SGHC(I) 8) and the subsequent appeal from OS 11 to the Court of Appeal (CA/CAS 5/2022) was dismissed on 14 November 2022.8. Following the Tribunal’s Award, on 20 May 2021 GGK commenced proceedings in the Seoul Southern District Court seeking leave to enforce the Final Award in Korea. These proceedings were suspended pending the final outcome of the challenges to the Final Award in the Singapore courts. No date has been fixed for a further hearing.9. On 26 May 2021 Chairman Park was indicted by the Korean Public Prosecutor for, inter alia, violating the Act on the Aggravated Punishment of Specific Economic Crimes in relation to alleged crimes of embezzlement and breach of trust. Chairman Park was tried before the Seoul Central District Court which resulted in a conviction. In its decision on 17 August 2022 Chairman Park was sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment.10. As a result of the investigations into the conduct of Chairman Park, Asiana commenced two sets of proceedings in the Korean Courts. 11. The first was Case No. 2022 Gahap 51122 brought before the Incheon District Court (“Korean CA Proceedings”) against GGK on 24 January 2022, seeking a declaration that the CA is invalid due to the doctrine of “abuse of power representation” under Article 103 of the Korean Civil Code on the basis that the coupling of the BWA with the CA was a breach of trust by Chairman Park and that GGK actively participated in that breach by entering the CA.12. The second was Case No. 2022 Gahap 109880 brought before the Seoul Southern District Court (“Korean Compensation Proceedings”) against GGS and the Directors on 13 October 2022, seeking damages on the basis that Chairman Park induced Asiana to enter into a “package deal”, as a consequence of which (i) GGK became Asiana's exclusive airline catering service provider; (ii) Kumho Buslines received at least KWR 160 billion; 69 and (iii) Asiana received inadequate consideration as a result. Asiana claimed that Chairman Park’s action were a breach of trust against Asiana and that GGS, Mr Schmitz and Mr Rossinyol actively participated in Chairman Park's breach of trust by entering into and/or concluding the JVA, for which they are jointly and severally liable pursuant to Arts 35, 756 and 760 of the Korean Civil Code.13. It is in respect of these two proceedings that the Applicants seek an anti-suit injunction.The court’s decision In respect of the Korean CA Proceedings14. The SICC decided that the proper law of the CA Arbitration Agreement was Korean law (at [62] to [63]).15. The SICC decided that the subject matter of the Korean CA Proceedings was not non-arbitrable under Korean law as Asiana claimed, and that GGK had established a prima facie breach of the CA Arbitration Agreement (at [100] to [102]).16. The SICC rejected the argument of Asiana that even if the dispute raised in the Korean CA Proceedings is arbitrable, the bringing of those proceedings nonetheless did not constitute a breach of the CA Arbitration Agreement because Korean law allowed them to be brought pursuant to Article 9(1) of the Korean Arbitration Act 2016. The SICC held that did not absolve Asiana from the possibility of being in breach of the CA Arbitration Agreement in starting the Korean CA Proceedings (at [114]).17. The SICC held that that the conduct of GGK during the relevant period and the delay alleged by Asiana did not disentitle it to the relief it sought to restrain Asiana’s breach of the CA Arbitration Agreement. The SICC therefore granted the anti-suit injunction which GGK sought (at [131]).In respect of the Korean Compensation Proceedings18. The SICC adjudged the true nature of the Korean Compensation Proceedings to be a claim based upon Chairman Park’s alleged breach of trust and a further assertion that because the Directors, and through them GGS, were well aware that Chairman Park’s conduct “was an act of disloyalty” all three have incurred joint and several liability to Asiana under the Korean Civil Code (at [134]).19. The SICC held that the JVA Arbitration Agreement was also governed by Korean law (at [138]).20. The SICC held that on its true construction under Korean law, the language of the JVA Arbitration Agreement is wide enough to include tort disputes between the parties (at [144] to [145]).21. The SICC invited parties to make submissions on the decision of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom in Republic of Mozambique (acting through its Attorney General) (Appellant) v Privinvest Shipbuilding SAL (Holding) and others (Respondents) [2023] UKSC 32 (“Mozambique”), and after consideration of parties’ positions, adopted the approach in Mozambique to determine the “matters” in respect of which the Korean Compensation Proceedings were brought (at [155] and [160]).22. Applying the approach in Mozambique, the SICC found that there were two “matters” which fell to be decided – whether there was a “conspiracy” between the Directors and Chairman Park to create an alleged imbalance of shareholdings between the  40% shareholding Asiana received in GGK compared with the 60% held by GGS , and secondly, if there was, what award of damages would properly serve to redress that imbalance (at [170]).23. The SICC held that the two matters fell within the scope of the JVA Arbitration Agreement and the bringing of the Korean Compensation proceedings was prima facie a breach of the JVA Arbitration Agreement (at [174] to [177]).24. The SICC concluded that GGS was entitled to the anti-suit injunction it sought to restrain the tort claims both against it and against the Directors, and directed that it would be appropriate for an undertaking to be given by the Directors to participate in and be bound by any arbitration between Asiana and GGS in consequence of this anti-suit injunction (at [179] to [182]).25. The SICC directed parties to agree on the wording of the injunctions, the Director’s undertaking and the question of costs, failing which parties are to file written submissions on the matters in dispute within 21 days of the judgment (at [184])This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
