
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27  April 2023Case summaryDzulkarnain bin Khamis v Public Prosecutor and anor appeal and anor matter [2023] SGCA 14--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismissed the appellants’ appeals against their respective convictions for drug trafficking and upheld their respective sentences. The Court of Appeal also dismissed the criminal motion of one of the appellants, seeking leave to adduce further evidence on appeal. Pertinent and significant points of the Grounds of Decision•  Where a party becomes aware of an issue that is raised in the course of the trial, and is in possession of evidence which he claims to be relevant to the determination of that issue, it is incumbent on that party to adduce that evidence at trial. A failure to do so would weigh against it being raised at a later stage of the proceedings: at [58].•  The inquiry into the chain of custody of drug exhibits pertains to the handling of the drug exhibits from the point they are taken into custody by the police, and does not concern events preceding the time the drug exhibits were taken into custody by the police. It remains, however, the Prosecution’s burden to prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the identity of the drug exhibits seized were the very same drugs in the accused person’s possession: at [83]–[84].•  Section 258(5) of the Criminal Procedure Code, which regulates the admissibility of a confession made by a co-accused person who has been charged with the same offence into evidence in the context of a joint trial, does not apply to situations where the co-accused person’s statement is relied upon in cross-examining an accused person: at [104].Background to the appeal and material facts1 On 23 February 2015, Dzulkarnain bin Khamis (“Dzulkarnain”), the appellant in CA/CCA 30/2020 (“CCA 30”), collected a brown box (the “Brown Box”) from a bus stop near Tuas Checkpoint and delivered it to Lorong 37 Geylang, Singapore (“Lorong 37”), specifically by placing it behind a green dustbin located next to No 14, Lorong 37 (the “Green Bin”). About five minutes after Dzulkarnain left, Sanjay Krishnan (“Sanjay”), the appellant in CA/CCA 32/2020 (“CCA 32”), drove to Lorong 37 in his car to pick up a brown box from behind the Green Bin (the “SKP Box”). Both Sanjay and Dzulkarnain were being trailed by different groups of Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) officers at the material time and were subsequently arrested. The SKP Box seized from Sanjay’s car was found to contain not less than 2,375.1g of cannabis (the “Drugs”).2 Dzulkarnain and Sanjay were jointly tried before the High Court judge (the “Judge”). Dzulkarnain was charged under s 5(1)(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “MDA”) for delivering the Drugs to Sanjay. Sanjay was charged under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the MDA for having the Drugs in his possession for the purpose of trafficking. At the trial, Sanjay gave evidence in his own defence, whereas Dzulkarnain chose to remain silent.3 Dzulkarnain’s defence was two-fold. First, he contended that there was a break in the chain of custody of the Drug, owing to the time gap between when he left the Brown Box at the Green Bin and when Sanjay collected the SKP Box, during which there was no CNB officer observing the area. Alternatively, he contended that this raised a reasonable doubt as to whether the SKP Box (which contained the Drugs) and the Brown Box was the same. Second, Dzulkarnain contended that he had rebutted the presumption of knowledge as to the nature of the drugs under s 18(2) of the MDA (the “s 18(2) presumption”) as he did not know the contents of the Brown Box4 As for Sanjay, his defence was that he thought the SKP Box contained collectors’ hunting knives and possibly contraband cigarettes, and that he did not know that the SKP Box in fact contained five bundles of cannabis. Sanjay explained that one “Boy Lai” had asked him to collect knives and possibly cigarettes from Dzulkarnain, and he agreed to assist Boy Lai because he, like Boy Lai, was a knife collector and because Boy Lai had promised him a payment of $300. Sanjay thus argued that the Prosecution could not prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he possessed the Drugs, and that he had rebutted the s 18(2) presumption. Additionally, Sanjay argued that since he was tasked by Boy Lai to collect the Drugs from one “Malaysia Boy” and to deliver them to Boy Lai, he was merely returning the Drugs to Boy Lai and thus could not be said to have trafficked in the Drugs. Finally, Sanjay challenged the chain of custody of the drug exhibits following their seizure by the CNB officers. As this challenge was raised following the conclusion of the main tranche of the trial, the Judge granted an application by Sanjay’s defence counsel to convene a further hearing to explore the chain of custody of the drug exhibits (the “further hearing”).5 Following the conclusion of the trial, the Judge rejected all of the appellants’ defences and was satisfied that the elements of the charges brought against each of the appellants were proven beyond a reasonable doubt. She therefore convicted both of them under the proceeded charges. On the issue of sentencing, the appellants were each found to be a courier within the meaning of s 33B(2)(a)(i) of the MDA. However, only Dzulkarnain was issued a certificate of substantial assistance by the Prosecution. Accordingly, the Judge exercised her discretion to impose on Dzulkarnain the alternative sentence of life imprisonment pursuant to s 33B(1)(a) of the MDA. As Dzulkarnain was above 50 years of age, he was not liable for caning. As for Sanjay, the Judge imposed the mandatory death penalty on him.6 The sole contention on Dzulkarnain’s appeal in CCA 30 was whether the Judge erred in finding that the Brown Box was the SKP Box. As for Sanjay’s appeal in CCA 32, he raised three contentions. First, the Judge erroneously relied on statements that were not admissible when she made her findings. Second, the Prosecution’s case did not present a unified case theory but consisted of inconsistent and incompatible parts and that this prejudiced his Defence. Third, the Judge erred in finding that he had failed to rebut the s 18(2) presumption.7 Sanjay also filed CA/CM 23/2022 (“CM 23”) seeking leave to adduce fresh evidence that was available to and/or readily obtainable by him at trial, but that he did not then adduce. That evidence was Sanjay’s own account of the location of a duffel bag containing the drug exhibits (the “duffel bag”) that had been seized from him, after that duffel bag was handed over by one group of CNB officers to another group led by one Senior Staff Sergeant Eng Chien Loon Eugene (“SSSgt Eng”). SSSgt Eng testified at the further hearing that after the duffel bag was handed to him, he placed it on his lap while he was driving the CNB vehicle to the CNB headquarters (“CNB HQ”). Sanjay’s evidence was that he did not accept that the duffel bag was on SSSgt Eng’s lap while the latter was driving the CNB vehicle. Sanjay argued that this was material to whether the chain of custody of the drug exhibits had been satisfactorily established.Decision on appealCM 23 was dismissed8 The issue in CM 23 was whether the cumulative requirements governing the admission of further evidence on appeal were satisfied, namely that the evidence: (a) could not have been obtained with reasonable diligence for use in the lower court (the “non-availability” condition); (b) would probably have an important influence on the result of the case, although it need not be decisive (the “materiality” condition); and (c) must be apparently credible, although it need not be incontrovertible: at [53]. 9 Where the application is made in a criminal matter by the Defence, the “non-availability” condition remained relevant, though it would be applied in an attenuated way in favour of the Defence and is to be considered holistically in the light of the other conditions of materiality and reliability: at [54].10 Where a party becomes aware of an issue that is raised in the course of the trial, and is in possession of evidence which he claims to be relevant to the determination of that issue, it is incumbent on that party to adduce the relevant evidence at trial. A failure to do so would weigh against it being raised at a later stage of the proceedings: at [58].11 Sanjay failed to establish the non-availability condition as he could not justify why he could not have adduced the further evidence with reasonable diligence: at [64].12 The issue as to where SSSgt Eng had placed the duffel bag while driving the CNB vehicle to the CNB HQ was squarely raised at the further hearing in SSSgt Eng’s cross-examination. Sanjay accepted that any challenge to this aspect of SSSgt Eng’s evidence could have been raised then and there without any difficulty. There was also no suggestion that Sanjay did not hear the evidence or that he was unaware of what was being said. Despite this, Sanjay took no steps to engage that issue: at [56]–[57]. 13 The Court rejected Sanjay’s explanation that it was not reasonable to expect him to have appreciated that SSSgt Eng’s testimony raised a further, distinct issue as regards the chain of custody. First, the further hearing was convened to consider only the integrity of the chain of custody. Sanjay must therefore have known that this entailed accounting for the whereabouts of the duffel bag throughout the material time. Second, the location of the duffel bag when SSSgt Eng was driving the CNB vehicle was not referred to fleetingly during the further hearing, but was pursued at some length by the Defence. Any apparent contradiction between SSSgt Eng’s evidence and Sanjay’s own evidence would have been glaringly obvious and would have been untrue based on Sanjay’s own recollection. Yet, he did not raise the issue. Third, that Sanjay was aware of the significance of this evidence was illustrated by his conduct of raising this evidence with his previous counsel after the filing of a previous criminal motion in CA/CM 26/2021 (“CM 26”), but before that motion was heard. Yet, inexplicably, even after the filing of CM 26 up to the time it was heard and disposed of in March 2022, Sanjay never pursued this further evidence: at [59]–[64].14 Sanjay also failed to establish the “materiality” condition. Sanjay’s trial counsel’s cross-examination of SSSgt Eng regarding the duffel bag’s whereabouts during the drive to the CNB HQ plainly brought to the Judge’s attention a possible issue regarding the veracity of SSSgt Eng’s account on the same. Given that Sanjay’s evidence was in substance a bare denial of SSSgt Eng’s account, it was difficult to see the impact that his further evidence could have had on the Judge’s analysis, given especially the Judge’s finding that Sanjay was not a credible witness: at [66]–[67].15 An application to adduce further evidence may be dismissed on the ground that it amounts to an abuse of process. The manner in which CM 23 was brought before the Court of Appeal, namely the drip-feeding of procedural applications by Sanjay, illustrated the wholly unacceptable manner in which the issue had been raised, and demonstrated the inconsistency in Sanjay’s treatment of the further evidence against his assertion as to its importance: at [69]–[71].CCA 30 was dismissed16 The analysis of the integrity of the chain of custody of the drug exhibits would only begin from the point they are taken into custody by the police. It remains, however, the Prosecution’s burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the drug exhibits seized were the very same drugs in the accused person’s possession prior to seizure: at [83]–[84].17 The central issue in CCA 30 was whether the Judge was correct in finding that the Brown Box was the SKP Box. To this end, Dzulkarnain’s decision to remain silent at trial meant that it was an uphill task for him to now show that the Judge erred in her finding on this point: at [85]. 18 It was immaterial that Dzulkarnain was not asked by the police at the time his statement was being recorded whether the SKP Box was the box that he delivered to the drop-off point, or to estimate the dimensions of the Brown Box. There was no need for this, given that Dzulkarnain was able to describe the appearance, weight, colour and expected contents of the Brown Box in terms that matched those of the SKP Box, and given his admission in his police statements that he had delivered the Drugs in the Brown Box: at [87]–[88].19 The Judge did not err in disregarding Dzulkarnain’s estimation of the dimensions of the Brown Box which differed from the SKP Box’s actual dimensions, and which he had provided in his statement to a doctor from the Institute of Mental Health. This was a neutral point, given that it could equally have been a self-serving attempt to distance himself from the SKP Box or the result of his inability to correctly estimate dimensions: at [87]–[88].20 The Judge also did not err in failing to consider the minor seeming discrepancies in the CNB officers’ description of the precise location of the Green Bin relative to the kerb, and between a CNB officer’s and Sanjay’s evidence regarding the location of the Brown Box relative to the Green Bin. The Judge thought that these inconsistencies were insufficient to affect her conclusion. These inconsistencies also turned very much on the location and perspectives of the viewers, and it was common ground that those who testified on these matters had viewed the drop-off point from different places and with different fields of vision: at [87] and [89].  21 Dzulkarnain’s argument that there remained a possibility that someone else might have replaced the Brown Box in the same spot during the intervening gap of five minutes was fanciful. The evidence showed that the drop-off location was randomly chosen on the spur of the moment. Further, there was an admitted arrangement between Dzulkarnain and Sanjay for the Brown Box to be dropped off and to be picked up at the same location, and the contents of both boxes were the same: at [90]–[91]. 22 The absence of Dzulkarnain’s DNA on the SKP Box was a neutral factor. The evidence of the Prosecution’s expert witness was not that Dzulkarnain’s DNA was definitely absent, but merely that the presence of multiple DNA samples on the SKP Box made it impossible to specifically identify Dzulkarnain’s DNA. Further, it was possible for Dzulkarnain to carry the SKP Box without leaving traces of his DNA: at [92]–[93].CCA 32 was dismissed23 The Court rejected Sanjay’s argument that Dzulkarnain’s statements, which Sanjay argued were in the nature of confessions, were impermissibly relied on by the Prosecution in cross-examining Sanjay during the trial, which were then impermissibly relied upon by the Judge in coming to her findings in breach of the requirements under s 258(5) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (the “CPC”): at [99]–[102].24 Section 258(5) of the CPC regulates the admissibility of a confession made by a co-accused person who has been charged with the same offence into evidence in the context of a joint trial. That provision applies where: (a) the co-accused person is being “jointly tried for the same offence”; and (b) the statement that the Prosecution seeks to rely on can properly be characterised as a “confession”: at [103].25 Section 258(5) of the CPC does not apply in the situation where reference is made to a co-accused person’s statement when cross-examining an accused person. This is consistent with the view that nothing in the Evidence Act 1893 (2020 Rev Ed) (“EA”) imposes such a restriction on the use of a co-accused person’s statement to cross-examine an accused person in a joint trial. The only requirement stated in 140(2) of the EA is that any question asked in cross-examination must relate to relevant facts: at [104]–[106]. 26 In any case, it was not open to Sanjay to allege that he was prejudiced, because Dzulkarnain’s statements were simply not used as evidence, either by the Prosecution or the Judge. Dzulkarnain’s statements did not form part of the evidence that the Prosecution relied on in making out its case against Sanjay. The only context in which the Prosecution had referred to Dzulkarnain’s statements was to ask questions of Sanjay during cross-examination. Not only was there no objection raised against this, there simply was no conceivable procedural basis upon which such an objection could be sustained. The Judge also did not rely on any such statements in convicting Sanjay, but simply focused on evaluating Sanjay’s case on its own merit: at [109]–[111]. 27 Finally, Sanjay’s objection was framed in terms that Dzulkarnain’s statements were confessions and could not be used at all by virtue of s 258(5) of the CPC because this was a joint trial where both accused persons were facing different charges. However, nothing on the record showed that the statements relied on by the Prosecution were in the nature of confessions by Dzulkarnain. Section 258(5) of the CPC thus had no application at all: at [112]–[116]. 28 The Court also rejected Sanjay’s argument that he had suffered procedural unfairness as the Prosecution had allegedly shifted its case on the existence of Boy Lai. Even assuming that the Prosecution had shifted its case, this was simply immaterial to the two central issues that the Judge was required to consider. The first was whether the Judge accepted Sanjay’s evidence that he did not know that the SKP Box contained the Drugs which would rebut the s 18(2) presumption. On this, the Judge analysed the merits of Sanjay’s defence at face value, and concluded that Sanjay’s defence could not be believed. In concluding as such, she did not make any finding as to Boy Lai’s existence as it was neither relevant nor necessary to the issue. The second was whether Sanjay intended the SKP Box to be delivered to a third party, which related to the element of trafficking. The Judge was satisfied that Sanjay had intended to deliver the Drugs to a third party, and it was irrelevant to determine the identity of the ultimate recipient: at [119]–[121]. 29 Sanjay alleged that the Judge erred in finding that he had failed to rebut the s 18(2) presumption when she failed to consider a purported oral statement which Sanjay gave to the CNB officers shortly after his arrest. Sanjay argued that the CNB officer had mis-recorded in his field diary that Sanjay had given non-verbal responses by shaking his head and shrugging his shoulders in response to a question on the contents of the SKP Box. Sanjay claimed that he had informed the CNB officers that he thought the SKP Box contained collectors’ hunting knives and cigarettes (the “oral statement”). Sanjay argued that this oral statement supported his case that he had maintained a consistent account as to his belief of the contents of the SKP Box. Sanjay further argued that there was a procedural defect in recording his oral statement as the CNB officer recording his statement did not read back what was recorded or obtained Sanjay’s signature on the statement: at [125].30 The Court rejected Sanjay’s allegation as to the materiality of the procedural irregularity in the recording of his statement. The Judge was cognisant of this procedural irregularity, but addressed this as a question of weight and ultimately found that there was no basis to conclude that the CNB officers had inaccurately recorded what Sanjay had said to them. Accordingly, there was simply no basis to interfere with the Judge’s analysis in this regard: at [126].31 The Court also found Sanjay’s allegation that the CNB officers had mis-recorded his statement and left out his oral statement to be unsustainable. If Sanjay had truly provided the oral statement at the start, and if it was true, it was inexplicable why he did not maintain this account in his subsequent police statements. In any event, the Judge’s finding that she disbelieved Sanjay’s account of his belief as to the contents of the SKP Box was based on a variety of grounds, and her finding that Sanjay failed to rebut the s 18(2) presumption could not be said to be against the weight of the evidence: at [128]–[130].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
