
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
28 February 2019 
Case summary
Geok Hong Company Pte Ltd v Koh Ai Gek and others [2019] SGCA 15 
Civil Appeal 174 of 2017 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):
Outcome: CoA allows appeal against decision that a common intention constructive trust had arisen over a property. 
1 This was an appeal against the decision of a High Court judge, in which he found that a common intention constructive trust had arisen over a property at 17 Glasgow Road (the “Property”) in favour of the late Mr Tan Tiong Luu (“TTL”).
Background to the appeal
2 The appellant, Geok Hong Company Pte Ltd (the “Company”) is a family-owned company that has been managed by the late Mr Tan Geok Chuan (“TGC”), and subsequently by his children, since its incorporation (at [6]).
3 TTL is TGC’s third son. The respondents are TTL’s family members, namely his wife, Ms Koh Ai Gek (“KAG”), his sons, Mr Tan Weiyang (“TWY”), Mr Tan Wei Chieh (“TWC”), and Mr Tan Wei Hsien, and his daughter-in-law, Ms Zhang Zhaoling (at [7]).
 4 On 25 October 1975, the Company passed a resolution to purchase the Property. The Company has at all material times been the registered owner of the Property. The respondents contend that when TTL was given an offer to purchase the Property, he discussed it with TGC. TGC then told TTL that he would buy the Property for him, since TTL would be staying behind to handle the business while his siblings were studying abroad. The respondents also contend that TGC had instructed TTL to register the Property in the name of the Company, so that KAG would not be able to get a share in the event of a divorce. The Company denies that TGC had ever made that oral representation to TTL (at [11] and [13]).
5 TTL and KAG used the Property as their family home from at least 1977 to the present. Sometime in 2012, TTL contracted liver cancer. He made a will on 10 October 2012 bequeathing the Property to KAG. (at [15] and [17]).
6 The respondents allege that on 30 October 2012, 20 days after TTL made his will, TTL became agitated after a visit by some of his siblings. He told his children that his siblings had refused to return the Property to him. He then informed his children that he wished to make a statement before a commissioner for oaths and lodge a caveat against the Property. A statutory declaration (“SD”) was made later that evening outlining TTL’s version of events concerning the Property. The Company disputes the truth of the contents of the SD (at [18] and [19]).
7 KAG subsequently commenced a suit against the Company for a declaration that the Company was holding the Property on trust for TTL’s estate. This was on the basis of a common intention constructive trust that had arisen from TGC’s oral representation to TTL. The High Court judge found that TGC had likely made the oral representation to TTL. Consequently, he found that the Property was held by the Company on a common intention constructive trust for TTL, and ordered the Company to convey the Property to TTL’s estate. The Company appealed against the High Court judge’s decision (at [20] and [21]).
 
Reasons for the court’s decision 
 
8 The Court of Appeal allowed the Company’s appeal (at [105]) because the respondents had failed to rebut the presumption that the legal owner of a property is also its beneficial owner (at [67]).
 
 
9 The High Court judge had relied primarily on the contents of the SD in finding that TGC had made the oral representation to TTL. However, the Court of Appeal observed that there were certain logical inconsistencies in the SD which rendered its contents unlikely to be true.

It was stated in the SD that the intention behind registering the Property in the Company’s name was to render it “divorce-proof”. However, this would effectively translate into an arrangement for the Company to transfer title to the Property to TTL at an indeterminate and unknown date in the future, given that the risk of divorce would be present so long as TTL was alive and remained married to KAG (at [51] and [52]). Ironically, the only way that the Property would be truly divorce-proof is if the Company remained both the legal and beneficial owner of the Property. Otherwise, TTL’s beneficial interest in the Property would form part of the pool of matrimonial assets for division in the event of a divorce (at [53]).
 

The respondents sought to draw a parallel between the arrangement in relation to the Property and another property at Surin Lane, based on what was stated in the SD. They contended that the Surin Lane property was also purchased for the sole benefit of another of TGC’s sons, Tan Tiong Wah (“TTW”), but was transferred to the Company to render it divorce-proof. The Court of Appeal observed that contrary to the respondents’ case, it was TTW who was meant to hold the Surin Lane property on trust for the Company. Therefore, the inference that should instead be drawn is that the Company was meant to be the legal and beneficial owner of the Property in the same way that it was the absolute owner of the Surin Lane property (at [56]–[60]).
 

It was stated in the SD that, subsequent to the purchase of the Property, TTL and KAG had applied for a HDB flat. However, they subsequently withdrew their application because TGC had allegedly told TTL that he already had a house ie, the Property. The Court of Appeal observed that it was questionable for TTL and KAG to have applied for a HDB flat if indeed the oral representation had been made to TTL five years earlier that he already owned the Property. KAG testified that TGC had told her and TTL that the Property belonged to both of them, but this was at odds with the respondents’ case that the intention was to keep the Property divorce-proof so that KAG would not get a share in it (at [61]–[64]).
 


 
10 The Court of Appeal observed that its conclusion was also borne out by the objective conduct of the relevant parties.

First, TTL had never informed his siblings of his alleged interest in the Property throughout his lifetime. He had not taken any steps to realise his interest while TGC was still alive, despite TGC being the only one that could have validated the oral representation. He had also not taken any steps to realise his interest in the 22 years after TGC passed away, and only chose to assert his interest by way of the SD shortly before his death (at [69]–[71]).
 

Second, the inference that should be drawn from TGC taking steps to equalise his children’s shareholdings in the Company is that he wanted to provide for his children by way of the shares in the Company in approximately equal proportions. It was therefore unlikely that TGC would have intended to gift such a significant asset of the Company exclusively to one son (at [74] and [75]).
 

Third, the Company had consistently treated the Property as its own. It recorded the Property as an asset in its balance sheet, which was acknowledged by TTL without reservation from 1976 to 2012. The Company also mortgaged the Property to secure banking facilities for its own benefit, and paid the insurance premiums and property taxes levied on the Property (at [76] and [77]). 

11 The Court of Appeal observed that the renovation works which TTL and KAG had undertaken on the Property were incapable of giving rise to an inferred common intention. It reiterated the principle that save for exceptional situations, an inferred common intention arises from direct contributions towards the purchase price of a property. Significant improvements done to a property may alter a party’s share of an existing beneficial interest in the property, but does not allow a party to acquire a beneficial interest. The exception to this is where the renovation works done are at or around the time of acquisition of the property and form a significant part of the initial cash outlay for the property. However, on these facts, the Court of Appeal observed that the renovation works undertaken by TTL and KAG were for the enjoyment of the Property by TTL and his family, and were incapable of giving rise to a beneficial interest (at [79]–[90]).
12 The Court of Appeal observed that in any case, TTL had not suffered any detriment in reliance on the alleged oral representation. Even though TTL and KAG had undertaken renovation works to the Property, this was offset by the fact that they had enjoyed exclusive use of the Property for about 40 years. Further, it was entirely speculative, without the benefit of hindsight, whether TTL and KAG would have made capital gains if they had purchased the HDB flat or any other residential property of their own (at [91]–[93]).
13 Finally, the Court of Appeal observed that the doctrine of laches would have applied to bar the respondents’ claim. There was no proper justification for the substantial lapse of almost 40 years between the time that TTL’s interest in the Property was alleged to have materialised, and when he started taking steps to realise this interest. Because of this substantial lapse of time, the key witnesses to the alleged oral representation ie, TGC and TTL, had both passed away and could not be cross-examined. Further, the effluxion of time had led to documentary records being lost and the memories of witnesses being eroded. Therefore, it would be unconscionable for the Company to have to defend such a claim (at [96]–[101]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
