
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
28 February 2019
Case
summary
Gan
Chai Bee Anne v Public Prosecutor [2019] SGHC 42                                                          

Magistrate
Appeal No 9234 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by
Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
High Court reduces sentence
for offences under s 6(c) of
Prevention of Corruption Act, and clarifies approach to restitution as
sentencing factor and sentencing for multiple offences.

Background


The appellant was the owner of
    D3 Pte Ltd (“D3”), which designed and installed store displays for Nike Singapore
    Pte Ltd (“Nike”). D3 was paid on invoices submitted to Nike for work done by
    D3’s workers. Ms Joanne Cheong, a manager with Nike responsible for processing
    these invoices, initiated a scheme to exploit this arrangement to extract
    pecuniary gain for herself and two of her colleagues. She enlisted the help of
    the appellant to submit inflated invoices to mislead Nike into overpaying D3
    and, after being paid on these invoices, to transfer the illegitimate gains to
    Ms Cheong. Nike lost $77,546.40 through 154 such invoices before the scheme was
    unravelled after two years: at [2]–[4].


Ms Cheong was charged with a
    corresponding 154 charges under s 6(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act (Cap
    241, 1993 Rev Ed) (“the Act”) for, in each instance, knowingly using, with
    intent to deceive her principal, Nike, a receipt which contained a false
    statement and which she knew was intended to mislead her principal. She made
    full restitution to Nike, and then pleaded guilty to 22 of those charges. The
    remaining were taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. She was
    sentenced to 20 weeks’ imprisonment: at [5].


154 related charges were then
    brought against the appellant, also under s 6(c), but under the limb of that
    provision which makes it an offence knowingly to give to an agent – Ms Cheong
    being Nike’s agent – any receipt which contains a false statement and which to the
    giver’s knowledge is intended to mislead the principal. The appellant pleaded
    guilty to ten of those charges. The remaining were taken into consideration for
    the purpose of sentencing. She was sentenced by the District Judge to 13 weeks’
    imprisonment. She appealed against her sentence, asking for a fine to be
    substituted: at [6] and [10].
The court’s decision


The court began with the
    District Judge’s decision on the appellant’s sentence, and considered that it
    arose largely from his overall impression of the sentence warranted by the
    seriousness of the appellant’s offences relative to that of Ms Cheong’s. The
    court held that this was the wrong approach. The proper approach consisted of
    two steps. The first was to reach a provisional view of the individual sentence
    for each offence. The second was to consider whether the existence of any
    cumulative sentencing factors justified adjusting the individual sentences or
    running them consecutively, and to explain the reason for any such adjustment
    thought necessary. The second step was informed by the totality principle,
    which not only safeguarded against excessive sentences, but also against
    inadequate sentences, and for that reason, might have a boosting effect on
    individual sentences where they would otherwise result in a manifestly
    inadequate overall sentence. Adopting this two-step approach was necessary to
    ensure consistency in outcomes and transparency in reasoning: at [18]–[22] and [24]–[30].


In this case, at the first
    step, the precedents made it difficult to justify the imposition of a custodial
    sentence for each charge, taken individually, because of the relatively small
    amount of the unauthorised claim involved in each charge. Further, none of the
    unauthorised claims were intended to accrue to the appellant’s benefit. But
    when the unauthorised claims involved in all the charges, both proceeded with
    and taken into consideration, were taken together, it then became readily
    apparent that the property Nike was made to part with was of significant value.
    What follows from this is that the idea that the custodial threshold was
    crossed on this ground was a conclusion as to the totality of the appellant’s offending
    conduct, and this should therefore have been considered only at the second step
    of the analysis: at [35] and [39].


Turning to the second step, the
    court considered together the first three aspects of the totality of the
    appellant’s conduct, namely, the substantial sum involved, Ms Cheong’s
    restitution and the fact that the appellant was not intended to benefit from
    Nike’s loss: at [41]. 


The court noted that generally,
    in sentencing for financial and property offences, the greater the economic
    value involved in the offence, the heavier the sentence. This was because
    economic value was a proxy for the degree of criminal benefit received by the
    offender and the degree of harm caused to the victim. There were two qualifications
    to this. First, where an offender was not intended to benefit from what the
    victim had been caused to part with, the value of the victim’s economic loss
    would not accurately reflect his culpability. Second, economic value indicated
    only economic harm suffered by the victim, and not other forms of harm, such as
    harm suffered by society at large if the offence had the effect of infringing
    public interest. This case implicated both qualifications: at [42]–[43].


As to the first, the
    substantial value of the total sum that Nike was caused to part with was not an
    accurate proxy for Ms Cheong’s culpability. This is because none of the
    $77,546.40 that Nike was made to part with was intended for the appellant. While
    the appellant admitted that she participated in the scheme to build a good
    business relationship with Nike, why this was necessary was unclear because she
    also said, and the Prosecution did not dispute, that D3 was already doing
    business with Nike since 2006 so there was no need to curry any further favours
    from Nike. The court therefore did not give this motive significant weight: at [45]–[46].


As to the second, the economic
    harm sustained by Nike was in fact the most relevant form of harm affecting the
    seriousness of the appellant’s offences, and it was significantly reduced by Ms
    Cheong’s making of full restitution to Nike. Nike’s economic harm was the most
    relevant harm because the central mischief targeted by s 6(c) of the Act was
    not corruption, which went beyond economic harm in damaging the integrity of
    businesses or public institutions, but the dishonest exploitation of the
    agent-principal relationship, which did not necessarily have that kind of repercussion,
    and instead usually resulted in only economic harm to the principal. This was
    in fact the case here, but such harm, consisting in the $77,546.40 that Nike
    lost, had been substantially reduced by Ms Cheong’s restitution. In this
    regard, while restitution generally evidences the remorse of only the maker,
    who in this case is Ms Cheong and not the appellant, it may also indicate that
    the economic harm that the victim has suffered has been reduced, and indeed,
    substantially reduced if full restitution was made. This is what happened here,
    and it weighed in favour of the appellant: at [59]–[63] and [67].


The result is that the total value
    involved in her offences was not a sufficient reason for concluding that the
    custodial threshold was crossed. To the extent that the District Judge held
    otherwise, he had erred: at [69].


The remaining two aspects of
    the totality of the appellant’s offending conduct were her premeditation in
    committing the offences and the long period over which she committed them, and
    the court considered that both of them justify imposing a custodial sentence in
    this case. They showed that she had committed the offences deliberately, and
    therefore spelt the need for a deterrent sentence and demonstrated a high
    degree of culpability on her part on account of which she deserved a suitably
    harsh sentence to signal society’s disapproval of her conduct. These deterrent
    and retributive aims were satisfactorily met only with a sentence of imprisonment,
    and justified increasing the individual sentences for her charges from what
    would, taken alone, have been fines, to short custodial sentences. The court
    gave minimal weight to her plea of guilt because it was entered late and in the
    face of strong evidence against her: at [70]–[75].


Having considered the
    precedents, the court substituted a sentence of one week’s imprisonment for
    each proceeded charge. As the value involved in the offences was not
    meaningfully treated as an aggravating factor here, the calibrated sentences need
    not be proportionate to the amount of the unauthorised claim involved in each
    charge, and should instead be uniform, given that the relevant aggravating
    factors, namely, the appellant’s premeditation and the long period of her
    offending, arose equally from each of those charges considered in totality: at [76].


Finally, in view of the
    appellant’s multiple offences, it was appropriate for the sentences for the
    first five proceeded charges to run consecutively. This resulted in an
    aggregate sentence of five weeks’ imprisonment. This struck the proper balance
    between communicating a deterrent and retributive message to the appellant for
    her active and knowing involvement in a dishonest scheme, and reflecting how
    the economic harm caused to the victim of that scheme has been all but
    reversed. The appeal was therefore allowed to this extent: at [78].

This summary is provided to assist in
    the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
    substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
    brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


