
Zamri Bin Mohd Tahir v Public Prosecutor [2019] SGCA 9
11 February 2019
Case summary
Zamri Bin Mohd Tahir v Public Prosecutor [2019] SGCA 9
Criminal Appeal No 15 of 2017                                                                           
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):
Outcome: CoA affirms HC decision to convict the appellant on a charge of possession of diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking and to impose the mandatory death sentence; while CoA found that the appellant had acted as a mere courier, he had not been issued a certificate of substantive assistance, and accordingly the HC decision to impose the mandatory death sentence was upheld.
Background to the appeal
1 The appellant, Zamri Bin Mohd Tahir was convicted in the High Court of having in his possession, for the purpose of trafficking, not less than 40.37g of diamorphine, and was sentenced to death. The appellant appealed against his conviction and the sentence imposed.
The material facts
2 On 14 October 2014, the appellant was arrested almost immediately after collecting five bundles of granular substance which were analysed and found to contain not less than 40.37g of diamorphine (“the Drugs”). In his statements, the appellant said that he had been awaiting instructions from his boss on whether he should divide and repack the Drugs, or if he should simply deliver it to other persons. At the time of his arrest, the appellant had not received any such instructions as to what he should do with the Drugs.
3 The appellant did not dispute the elements of the charge; he accepted that he had been in possession of the Drugs, that he had known that the Drugs were diamorphine, and that the Drugs were ultimately meant to be delivered to other person(s). The appellant’s sole contention on appeal was that he qualified to be sentenced under the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B(1)(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). This required that the appellant establish two requirements: first, that his involvement in the offence had been limited to the acts enumerated in s 33B(2)(a) of the MDA (ie, that he had acted as a mere courier); and, second, that he had been issued a certificate of substantive assistance.
4 On 29 November 2018, the Public Prosecutor confirmed that his decision not to issue a certificate of substantive assistance to the Appellant remained unchanged.
Decision on appeal
5 The Court of Appeal dismissed the appellant’s appeal against conviction and sentence.
6 In respect of the appellant’s conviction, the Court of Appeal was satisfied on the evidence that the conviction was well-founded (at [14]).
7 In respect of availability of the alternative sentencing regime, the Court of Appeal noted that the Public Prosecutor’s decision not to grant a certificate of substantive assistance in and of itself foreclosed any possibility of recourse to the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B(1)(a) of the MDA (at [5]). The appeal against sentence was accordingly dismissed.
8 Nevertheless, the Court of Appeal concluded that the trial judge erred in finding that the appellant was not a mere courier (at [15]). The Court of Appeal noted that: (i) the appellant, at the time of his arrest, had done nothing more than to collect and transport the Drugs, (ii) the appellant’s unchallenged evidence had been that he intended to deal with the Drugs as instructed by his boss, (iii) no such instructions had in fact been given to the appellant at the time of his arrest, and (iv) no evidence could be or was led as to what such instructions would have been. In the circumstances, it could not be said that the appellant had in fact done or had committed to doing anything that would take him outside the ambit of the acts listed in s 33B(2)(a) of the MDA (at [16]–[17], [19]). However, it was emphasised that this did not affect the outcome of the appeal given the Public Prosecutor’s decision not to grant a certificate of substantive assistance.
