
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE25 April 2023Case summaryRoll SG Pte Ltd v Cong Ty Co Phan Van Tai Lien Hiep Huy Hoang [2023] SGHC(I) 5Singapore International Commercial Court — Suit No 9 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Anselmo Reyes IJ):Outcome: The SICC has jurisdiction to adjudicate the claims made by the Plaintiff and orders that the Defendant pay damages to the Plaintiff for the repair, return, unpaid rental and late payment interest for the breach of several crane rental agreements. Background 1 This dispute arose out of several crane rental agreements (collectively, the “Contract”) between the plaintiff, Roll SG Pte. Ltd. (“Roll”), a Singaporean company and subsidiary of the Roll Group which rented out heavy lifting equipment; and the defendant, Cong Ty Co Phan Van Tai Lien Hiep Huy Hoang (“HTL”), a Vietnamese company which provided logistics, transportation, equipment installation and construction services for offshore wind turbine projects off the Vietnamese coast. Under the Contract, Roll agreed to lease to HTL a CC6800 crawler crane (the “Crane”) to be used for HTL’s construction and installation works at the Tra Vinh Wind Farm Offshore Project (the “Project”) in the Mekong Delta of Vietnam. On 2 November 2020, the Crane was severely damaged while being transported by HTL. 2 Roll sought damages against HTL for breach of the Contract in the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”). In particular, Roll claimed the cost of repairing the Crane, unpaid invoices for the rental and demobilisation of the Crane and late payment interest. HTL denied the SICC’s jurisdiction to hear this case and neither defended the action nor stated why it contended that the SICC lacked jurisdiction to hear this case. The material facts3 Roll and HTL entered into a rental agreement on 12 May 2020, which stipulated that Roll would lease the Crane to HTL for a minimum period of nine months from 15 August 2020 to 15 May 2021. To assist HTL’s bank financing application, the rental period was further split into two separate periods: from 15 August to 14 December 2020 and from 15 December 2020 to 14 May 2021. The rental agreements collectively incorporated Roll’s Standard Terms and Conditions (“Standard T&Cs”) and Special Terms and Conditions (“Special T&Cs”). The material terms of the three agreements were identical (collectively, the “Contract”). 4 The material terms of the Contract were that: (a) Roll would lease the Crane to HTL from 15 August 2020 to 15 May 2021. In return, HTL would pay Roll a monthly rental of US$175,000 for the Crane, together with a one-off payment of US$75,000 for the demobilisation of the Crane. (b) HTL was responsible for returning the Crane to Roll undamaged. If the Crane was damaged during the rental period, HTL would rectify the damage and be responsible for all costs associated with the repair of the Crane and its return to Roll. (c) HTL would pay Roll default interest, in the event of delay in paying Roll’s invoices, at a rate of 1.5% per month, accruing from the due date of each invoice. (d) Disputes under the Contract were to be referred exclusively to the Singapore Court. 5 On or about 22 to 23 August 2020, Roll delivered the Crane to HTL in Vietnam, with the document certifying the handover stating that no physical damages were detected and that the crane parts were received in good condition. On 28 September 2020, PVI Insurance Corporation (“PVI Insurance”) issued a Domestic Transport Insurance for the Crane, which required HTL to properly sea-fasten the Crane, otherwise the PVI Insurance policy would be invalidated. In October 2020, HTL transported the Crane to Long Anh Port, where it was assembled before being towed by sea to the Tra Vinh Wind Farm on 2 November 2020. 6 On 2 November 2020, the Crane was severely damaged while being towed to the Tra Vinh Wind Farm. 7 On 4 November 2020, Crawford & Company (Nederland) B.V. (“Crawford”) was engaged to investigate the incident and prepare a report on the damage to the Crane as well as the cost of recovering and repairing the Crane. On 25 November 2020, PVI Insurance rejected HTL’s claim for insurance on the basis that the sea-fastening was not completed. 8 From November 2020 to March 2021, Roll repeatedly requested that HTL repair and return the Crane in compliance with its obligations under the Contract. HTL did not do so, apparently because it was in a disagreement with its main contractor, Vestas Wind Technology (Vietnam) LLC (“Vestas”), which had subcontracted part of the construction work on the Tra Vinh Wind Farm to HTL, over the damage to the Crane.9 Eventually, on 6 to 7 February 2021, HTL brought the Crane down from the inverted V-position which it had been in since 2 November 2020. However, HTL refused to remove the Crane from Vestas’ barge. In late March 2021, Vestas arranged for the Crane to be dismantled and removed from its barge and moved to PV Shipyard in Vietnam. 10 On 29 June 2021, following an inspection of the Crane by a Vietnamese surveyor (Vietnam International Adjuster) in the presence of HTL and Roll, the Crane was loaded onto a barge and shipped out of Vietnam. On about 25 September 2021, the Crane arrived at PVA’s premises in Vlaardingen, The Netherlands. It underwent inspection, testing and repairs. The Crane was fully repaired and returned to PVA in good condition on 31 August 2022. 11 From February 2021 until August 2022, invoices were issued by Roll to HTL for the rental of the Crane at US$175,000 per month. An invoice for the demobilisation of the Crane in the sum of US$75,000 was also issued by Roll on 14 July 2021. HTL has not paid these invoices at the time the judgment was delivered. 12 HTL has rejected the SICC’s jurisdiction of the matter over several correspondences with Roll. HTL did not clarify the bases of its jurisdictional objection. The court’s decision Issue 1: Whether the SICC has jurisdiction over the dispute 13 The SICC had jurisdiction over the dispute pursuant to s 18A of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (Cap 322) (“SCJA”), as well as pursuant to s 18D of the SCJA read with O 110 r 7(1) of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed). Roll’s action was “international” and “commercial” in nature as Roll’s place of business was Singapore and HTL’s place of business was Vietnam; and the Contract was a commercial contract for the supply of a Crane on a rental basis for HTL’s use on the Project. Roll had also duly served the cause papers on HTL by substituted service. Roll was also not seeking any relief relating to a prerogative order, but was merely seeking an award of damages arising from HTL’s breach of the Contract: at [44], [45], [46], [47] and [49]. Issue 2: Whether HTL breached the terms of the Contract by failing to repair the Crane and return it in good condition to Roll 14 HTL had breached the terms of the Contract by failing to repair the damage to the Crane and return the same in good condition to Roll. Under the terms of the Special T&Cs, along with the Contract, HTL was required to return the Crane to Roll in the same state and condition as it was when received, rectify any damage to the Crane, and bear the cost of repairing the Crane and all other related costs. As the damage occurred after the Crane had been delivered by Roll to HTL in good condition, the unrectified damage was a breach by HTL of the terms of the Contract: at [64] and [65]. 15 Even if HTL had a claim against Vestas in respect of the damage to the Crane, that was for HTL to pursue against Vestas separately. The possibility of a claim by HTL against Vestas was no defence in the present Suit under the Contract: at [66]. 16 HTL would also not have been able to terminate the hire of the Crane pursuant to the Contract, as the damage to the Crane occurred due to the “use, abuse or improper use” of the Crane by HTL or those acting under its supervision or on its behalf. HTL also did not give any notice to remedy to Roll to remedy the alleged default: at [68] and [69]. Issue 3: Whether HTL breached the terms of the Contract by failing to pay for outstanding invoices for the rental and demobilisation of the Crane17 HTL was liable to pay for the monthly rental of the Crane up until the date when reasonable repairs to the Crane were completed. Payment of the outstanding invoices for the rental and demobilisation of the Crane could not be conditional on the collection of revenue from HTL’s ongoing projects in light of a clause in the Standard T&Cs which required that the payment by HTL must never be dependent on receipt by HTL of payments from third parties, including their own customers. Any damage to the Crane that occurred prior to its return to Roll also had to be rectified: at [76], [77] and [78]. 18 HTL was obliged to pay for the demobilisation costs under the Special T&Cs. By failing to pay for the outstanding invoices, HTL breached the terms of the Contract: at [80] and [81]. Issue 4: Whether HTL breached the terms of the Contract by failing to pay late payment interest for sums outstanding under the unpaid invoices19 HTL breached the Contract by failing to pay late payment interest for the sums outstanding under the unpaid invoices. First, the late payment interest was a genuine pre-estimate of the likely loss incurred by the breach and was not at an exorbitant rate that the court should strike it down or hold that it was unenforceable. The interest rate of 1.5% was intended to mitigate the higher risk of delay in payment or non-payment. The 1.5% per month was neither unconscionable, extravagant nor out of proportion in comparison with the potential losses to be sustained by Roll. There was also no evidence suggesting an imbalance of bargaining power between the parties: at [86], [87] and [88]. 20 Roll also did not waive any right to late payment interest. Although HTL did not demand late payment interest prior to 16 February 2022, this was insufficient to constitute a waiver. Instead, there were communications between the parties that late payment interest was due and owing. Moreover, HTL periodically and expressly acknowledged its liability for the late payment interest through letters and emails sent to Roll: at [90], [91] and [92]. Issue 5: Damages and quantum 21 The damage to the Crane was attributable to HTL. The evidence was that the normal operations of the Crane could not have led to the micro-fractures and internal cracks observed. Rather, the latter would have resulted from the extraordinary torsion that the Crane experienced as a result of the November 2020 incident. In any event, HTL assumed the risk of micro-fractures, internal cracks, and other similar damage under the Special T&Cs: at [101], [102] and [103]. 22 Roll had acted reasonably to mitigate the damage. While it might have been contended that it would have been cheaper for Roll to purchase a second-hand crane instead of repairing the damaged Crane, the evidence was that finding a replacement Crane would have been immensely difficult. In the circumstances of a tight market, it was unlikely that Roll could have found a replacement second-hand crane within any reasonable period of time. Further, a substantial amount of the costs associated with the rental, transport and investigation of the damage to the Crane might nonetheless have been incurred even if Roll ultimately decided to buy a replacement crane: at [106], [107] and [108]. 23 The total quantum of damages for the repair costs of the Crane was accepted as reasonable. The mark-up of 10% for handling of invoices was accepted as reasonable as it was standard practice worldwide, and was in fact bargained down by Roll. The “Tail Items” which included a mark-up of 5% for unforeseen costs not otherwise detailed was also accepted as reasonable, and this figure was also negotiated by Roll to terminate its rental agreement with PVA. It was also not double recovery for Roll to claim the cost of repair as well as the rental that accrued while the Crane was being repaired. The purposes of the damage rectification clauses and the payment obligation clauses were distinct and concerned two different losses, with the former intended to ensure that Roll would not be responsible for the costs associated with the repair and return of the Crane to Roll and the latter to ensure that there would be no loss of income to Roll in the event that the Crane had not been properly returned by HTL: at [111], [112], [115], [116] and [118]. 24 The court accepted that the total quantum for the return costs of the Crane from Vietnam to Singapore were €44,399, US$1,215,844.13, and S$96,641.60 respectively. There was no double recovery of the return costs regarding the transport leg of the Crane from Singapore to The Netherlands as this was necessitated at the time because of the damage to the Crane. Specialist repairs could only be effected in The Netherlands and consequently, the transport of the Crane from Singapore to The Netherlands should be recoverable as damages. There was also no overlap between the transport cost and Roll’s claim against HTL for the unpaid invoice in respect of the demobilisation cost, as they were distinct claims. The demobilisation cost of US$75,000 was not meant to cover the dismantling and transport costs of the Crane: at [120], [121], [123], [124], [126] and [128]. 25 Invoices were issued in respect of the Crane from 15 February 2021 to 31 August 2022, when the Crane was returned to PVA. As the invoices remained unpaid, the court accepted that unpaid invoices in the total amount of US$3,245,967.74 were due and owing to Roll: at [130] and [131]. 26 Roll was entitled to late payment interest accruing from the relevant due date for each unpaid invoices until the date of payment under the Standard T&Cs and Contract. Extrapolating to the date of the Judgment, Roll was entitled to late payment interest in the amount of US$832,603.62: at [133] and [136]. 27 As Roll had largely succeeded against HTL in the proceedings, Roll was entitled to reasonable costs of the proceedings as against HTL: at [137]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
