
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE25 April 2023 Case summaryTangaraju s/o Suppiah v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGCA 13Court of Appeal – Criminal Motion No 19 of 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses an application under s 394H(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “CPC”) for permission to make a review application in respect of an earlier judgment of the Court of Appeal. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  It was not the applicant’s case at the trial that the agreement with Mogan was to traffic an amount that was below the threshold amount for capital punishment, or any lesser quantity. The applicant is thus essentially seeking to advance an entirely new argument.•  It was insufficient for an applicant to attempt to re-characterise evidence already led below or to mount fresh factual arguments on the basis of such evidence. In claiming that the Prosecution had failed to prove that he and Mogan had intended to traffic the specific quantity of cannabis, this appears to be precisely what the applicant is seeking to do: at [19]. •  Given that the Prosecution’s position was clearly put to the applicant at the trial, there was no reason why this argument could not have been raised earlier with reasonable diligence: at [20]. •  The agreement to traffic the quantity found in Mogan’s possession was proved beyond a reasonable doubt. The evidence at the trial was that Mogan had knowledge of the quantity of the cannabis. Furthermore, it was also expressly put to the applicant that he had an agreement to traffic 1017.9g of cannabis: at [21] and [22]. •  There was no adverse inference drawn against the applicant based on the weight of the drugs found in Mogan’s possession. The Judge had found that, in the absence of any arguments that the cannabis was intended for the applicant’s own consumption and given the large quantity of cannabis involved, the applicant had intended to traffic the said cannabis. This conclusion was in no way dependent on the applicant’s possession of the cannabis: at [23]. •  Since there was no legitimate basis for this court to exercise its power of review under s 394H of the CPC, the new arguments which the applicant has advanced at the eleventh hour, without more, did not warrant the court’s exercise of its inherent power to reopen a concluded criminal appeal: at [27] and [28]. Background to the application and material facts 1 On 9 October 2018, the applicant was convicted by a Judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”) on a capital charge of abetting with one Mogan Valo (“Mogan”) by engaging in a conspiracy to traffic in cannabis by delivering 1017.9g of cannabis to himself, an offence under s 5(1)(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “MDA”), read with s 5(2) and s 12 of that same Act (see Public Prosecutor v Tangaraju s/o Suppiah [2018] SGHC 279 (“Tangaraju (HC Conviction)”) at [2] and [81]). As the applicant did not fulfil any of the criteria in the alternative sentencing regime under s 33B(1) of the MDA, he was sentenced to the mandatory death penalty pursuant to s 33(1) of the MDA (Tangaraju (HC Conviction) at [82]–[83]). 2 The applicant’s appeal against his conviction and sentence was dismissed by this court in CA/CCA 38/2018 (“CCA 38”) on 14 August 2019 with brief oral grounds. The Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that the applicant had abetted Mogan by engaging in a conspiracy to traffic in cannabis and that he used a phone bearing the first number to communicate with Mogan.3 On 7 November 2022, the applicant filed CA/CM 25/2022 (“CM 25”) under s 394H of the CPC for permission to apply to review the concluded appeal in CCA 38. On 23 February 2023, the Court of Appeal summarily dismissed CM 25 (see Tangaraju s/o Suppiah v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGCA 8). 4 The applicant brought the present application, CA/CM 19/2023 (“CM 19”) seeking an order that leave be granted pursuant to s 394H of the CPC or the Court’s inherent jurisdiction to make a review application in respect of the Court of Appeal’s decision in CCA 38; a stay of the execution scheduled for 26 April 2023, pending the determination of this leave application; and at the conclusion of any substantive appeal, that the sentence of death imposed by the Judge be set aside. Decision5 Under s 394H(1) of the CPC, an applicant must first obtain leave from the appellate court before making a review application. Only an application that discloses a “legitimate basis for the exercise of this court’s power of review” should be allowed to proceed under s 394H of the CPC. Under s 394J(2) of the CPC, the applicant must also satisfy the appellate court that there is sufficient material (being evidence or legal arguments) on which the appellate court may conclude that there has been a miscarriage of justice in the criminal matter in respect of which the earlier decision was made: at [14] and [15]. 6 The applicant’s submissions in the present application mainly focused on his alleged lack of knowledge of the specific quantity of drugs being trafficked. To this end, it was undisputed that Mogan had brought 1017.9g of cannabis into Singapore (Tangaraju (HC Conviction) at [79]) and that the applicant knew the nature of the drugs to be cannabis (Tangaraju (HC Conviction) at [10]). The Prosecution had also specifically put to the applicant at the trial that: (a) the applicant had knowledge that Mogan was carrying two bundles containing not less than 1017.9g of cannabis; (b) that he was engaged in criminal conspiracy with Mogan to traffic the cannabis in the said amount; and (c) that he intended to traffic in the said quantity of cannabis once he had taken receipt of them. This was met with the applicant’s bare denial: at [18]. 7 It was never the applicant’s case at the trial that the agreement with Mogan was to traffic an amount that was below the threshold amount for capital punishment, or any lesser quantity. This was an entirely new argument. It was insufficient for an applicant to attempt to re-characterise evidence already led below or to mount fresh factual arguments on the basis of such evidence. In claiming that the Prosecution had failed to prove that he and Mogan had intended to traffic the specific quantity of cannabis, this appeared to be precisely what the applicant was seeking to do: at [19]. 8 There was no reason why this argument could not have been raised earlier with reasonable diligence either before the Judge or before the court in CCA 38, as per s 394J(3)(b) of the CPC. No explanation had been put forth by the applicant as to why this argument was not raised earlier: at [20]. 9 In any event, the agreement to traffic the quantity found in Mogan’s possession was proved beyond a reasonable doubt. Based on Mogan’s testimony at the trial, the Judge had determined that the applicant knew that Mogan was delivering cannabis, and that he had used the first phone number to coordinate the delivery of the said cannabis to himself by instructing Mogan to pass the cannabis to Suresh, who was to collect the cannabis on the applicant’s behalf. The applicant had therefore engaged in a conspiracy with Mogan for Mogan to deliver the entire quantity of 1017.9g of cannabis to himself and the charge against the applicant was proved beyond a reasonable doubt: at [21]. 10 The applicant’s new argument was also premised on false assertions. The evidence at the trial was that Mogan had knowledge of the quantity of the cannabis. It was also expressly put to the applicant that he had an agreement to traffic 1017.9g of cannabis: at [22].11 The Judge did not draw an adverse inference against the applicant based on the weight of the drugs found in Mogan’s possession. Instead, the Judge had found that, in the absence of any arguments that the cannabis was intended for the applicant’s own consumption and given the large quantity of cannabis involved, the applicant had intended to traffic the said cannabis. This was in no way dependent on the applicant’s possession of the cannabis: at [23]. 12 Filing another application for permission to make a review application to reopen the court’s decision in CCA 38 was impermissible under s 394K(1) of the CPC. The applicant had filed the earlier CM 25 on the change of the law brought about by the decision of Muhammad Nabill bin Mohd Fuad v Public Prosecutor [2020] 1 SLR 984, as regards the Prosecution’s duty to disclose a material witness’ statement to the Defence. CM 19 was now based on entirely different grounds, ie, a new argument in relation to the applicant’s knowledge of the quantity of drugs. Such drip-feeding of applications in a bid to thwart the court’s efforts to discharge its responsibility to dispose with the matter timeously in accordance with its merits would amount to an abuse of the process of the court: at [24]. 13 If the material put forth by the applicant does not satisfy the requirements set out under s 394J of the CPC, the court cannot exercise its inherent power to reopen a concluded criminal appeal on the basis of the same material. Since there was no legitimate basis for the court to exercise its power of review under s 394H of the CPC, the new arguments raised by the applicant do not warrant the court’s exercise of its inherent power to reopen a concluded criminal appeal: at [27] and [28]. 14 As there was no legitimate basis for the court to review his appeal in CCA 38 and no basis for the court to exercise its inherent power to reopen a concluded criminal appeal, the application was dismissed without being set down for hearing: at [29].  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
