
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
17 December
2018
Case summary
UKM v Attorney-General [2018] SGHCF 18 
High Court (Family Division) / District Court Appeal No 2 of 2018
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision
of the High Court (Family Division) (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):
Outcome: The High Court (Family Division) allows a gay man’s application to
adopt his four-year-old biological son who was birthed through gestational
surrogacy in the US.
Significant points of the judgment
·        
The
court explains the meaning of the expression “welfare of the child” in the
Adoption of Children Act (Cap 4, 2012 Rev Ed). 
·        
The
court sets out the appropriate methodology for determining and weighing the
public policy considerations that are said to militate against giving effect to
a claimed statutory right or interest.
·        
The
court sets out the circumstances in which a payment made to a parent or
guardian in consideration of an adoption would be sanctioned under the Adoption
of Children Act, as well as the effect of granting and withholding sanction.
Facts
1             
The
appellant is a gay man in a long-term relationship with his partner. Desirous
of raising a child and having been advised that they could not adopt in
Singapore because of their sexual orientation, they travelled to the US and
engaged the services of a surrogate mother, M, whom they paid under a
Gestational Surrogacy Agreement (“GSA”) to carry and deliver a baby conceived
through in vitro fertilisation and then to hand the baby over to them. The appellant’s
sperm and the egg of an anonymous donor were used in the procedure. In November
2013, M gave birth to the appellant’s biological son (“the Child”). She later
relinquished her parental rights over the Child, whom the appellant and his
partner then brought to Singapore. The Child was granted a Long-Term Visit Pass
to remain here until April 2015: [3],
[4], and [7] to [10].
2             
Hoping
to enable the Child to remain in Singapore permanently, the appellant applied on
the Child’s behalf for Singapore citizenship, but was denied. He approached the
Ministry of Social and Family Development (“the MSF”) for advice and was told that
the prospects of the Child’s remaining here might be enhanced if he adopted the
Child and thereby established a legal nexus with him. In December 2014, the
appellant filed an application to adopt the Child under the Adoption of
Children Act (Cap 4, 2012 Rev Ed) (“the Act”), and the Child was granted a dependant’s
pass for the duration of the adoption proceedings. The appellant deposed that
he had made the application to improve the Child’s chances of obtaining
Singapore citizenship or permanent residency and to “formalise” his legal
status as the Child’s father. M filed her consent to this application in January
2015: [11] to [13].
 
3             
The
Director of Social Welfare of the MSF was then appointed the Child’s
Guardian-in-Adoption (“the Guardian”). An extensive three-year investigation by
the MSF followed, resulting in a report recommending against allowing the
adoption on the basis that an adoption would be “contrary to public policy”,
given that “[s]ame-sex marriage is not recognised under Singapore law” and the
appellant is “seeking to form a family unit with his male partner”: [14]. 
 
4             
In
December 2017, a District Judge dismissed the appellant’s adoption application,
largely on the basis that by going overseas to procure the Child through
gestational surrogacy – that procedure not being legally available in Singapore
and, to the District Judge, ethically problematic – and by then attempting to
formalise his relationship with the Child here through adoption, the appellant was
attempting to “[walk] through the back door of the system when the front door
was firmly shut”. The District Judge held that while the court might consider
“unlocking the back door” if the welfare of the child in question demanded it,
this was not the case here. The appellant appealed to the High Court against that
decision: [16], [19] and [22].
 
5             
Four
issues arose for determination. The first was whether the making of an adoption
order in this case would be “for the welfare of the infant” under s 5(b) of the Act. This was a statutory
requirement that had to be satisfied before an adoption order could be made,
and it was the requirement the satisfaction of which the parties disputed most
severely. The second was whether there was any basis for taking public policy
considerations into account. This issue arose because the Guardian contended
that even if all the statutory requirements were satisfied, making an adoption
order in this case would violate public policy, and therefore, the court ought
to exercise its discretion not to make the order. The third issue was the
proper approach to taking public policy into account, assuming that there was a
basis for doing so. The fourth and final issue was whether the payment that the
appellant made to M under the GSA was lawful under s 11 of the Act, which
prohibits the making of payments “in consideration of the adoption” to the
parents of the child to be adopted, and the effect on the appellant’s application
of a conclusion either way: [23] to [30] and [32] to [35].
The
court’s decision
The welfare of the child
6             
The
court held that the welfare of a child for the purposes of s 5(b) of the Act refers to his “well-being”
in every aspect and in the most exhaustive sense of the word. It refers to his
physical, intellectual, psychological, emotional, moral and religious
well-being, both in the short term and in the long term. Besides the
satisfactoriness of the child’s parenting arrangement, it is equally critical
to account for the intangible components of his well-being in a broader sense.
This means that attention must be given not only to his psychological and
emotional development, but also to the environment within which his sense of
identity, purpose and morality would be cultivated: [45] to [47].
 
7             
The
court also held that s 3 of the Guardianship of Infants Act (Cap 122, 1985 Rev
Ed), which states that the welfare of the child shall be the first and
paramount consideration in any proceedings relating to his custody and
upbringing, does apply to adoption proceedings. This meant that the court’s
analysis must take the shape of assessing the impact of the order sought in the
light of all the relevant indicia of the child’s welfare, and when a certain
outcome is shown to be for the welfare of the child, the court should generally
make an order which achieves that outcome unless there are compelling reasons
to do otherwise. However, the child’s welfare is neither absolute nor
exclusive, and therefore, exceptional circumstances particular to the context
of the specific case may justify an outcome which serves the child’s welfare
less than optimally: [50] and [56] to [57].
 
8             
In
the present case, the court was satisfied that an adoption order would be for
the welfare of the Child as required under s 5(b) of the Act. It would increase the Child’s prospects of securing
Singapore citizenship and possible long-term residence in Singapore, where his
natural father and family support structures were located. This consideration
carried significant weight given its bearing on the Child’s sense of security
and emotional well-being, as well as the long-term stability of his care
arrangements, which the MSF had assessed as materially and financially adequate.
Also, to a limited extent, the legitimation of the Child by the grant of an
adoption order would have some positive social, psychological and emotional
impact on him, because of the social acceptance attached to this status. But as
the Child’s present circumstances already reflected the reality that he was the
appellant’s biological son, the court was not satisfied that an adoption order
would establish the Child’s parentage and thereby have the transformative
impact on the Child that the appellant claimed that it would. The court also considered
that neither the removal of M’s parental rights nor the Child’s obtaining the
right to intestate succession was a benefit to him: [65] to [67], [74] to [75], [79] to [80] and [84].
The legal basis for taking public policy
into account
9             
The
court next addressed the Guardian’s submission that an adoption order should nevertheless
not be made because it would be in violation of public policy. In the court’s
view, there was a legal basis, in s 3(1) of the Act, for the court to take
public policy considerations into account in arriving at its decision in this
case: [85], [96] to [97] and [102]. 
 
10          
In
the court’s view, s 3(1) of the Act confers on the court not only a power to
make an adoption order, but also a general discretion to determine whether to
make such an order once the relevant statutory conditions have been satisfied.
The purpose of this discretion is twofold. First, it is to enable the court to
make an adoption order only after having regard to all the relevant
circumstances of the case, including any consideration which is not provided
for in the Act but which may be relevant to assessing the propriety of the
transaction between the two sets of parents involved in the adoption as well as
the welfare of the child concerned. Second, it is to enable the court to
consider any public policy which may be relevant to any aspect of the
institution of adoption, because adoption is the very institution which the Act
has established and seeks to regulate. Therefore, the court held that the
Guardian was entitled to rely on s 3(1) of the Act to introduce public policy
considerations relating to family, parenthood and the well-being of children: [89], [96] to [97].
The role of public policy in judicial
decisions and in the present case
11          
The
court conceptualised public policy as involving arguments about the public or
common good. This explained why its proper role in judicial decisions was historically
difficult to define: the logic of public policy cuts against the logic of the essential
judicial task of deciding individual cases, and what is or is not for the common
good is often incapable of complete consensus and changes with the times. The
proper approach to taking public policy therefore had to explain why regard
should be had to the common good in deciding an individual case, and why a
certain formulation of the common good was authoritative or persuasive. On this
premise, the court set out general principles on the role of public policy in
judicial decisions. These principles were predicated on fundamental
propositions about the proper function of judges, the first being the
protection of the democratic process and respect for the democratic legitimacy
of our elected institutions, and the second being institutional competence: [107] to [110], [111] to [123] and [125] to [126].
 
12          
The
role of public policy in the present case was shaped by its legal context.
Since the appellant’s adoption application was governed by statutory law and
the public policy considerations relied upon by the Guardian were socio-economic
in nature, there was little scope for the court to rest its decision on any
public policy of its own formulation. Instead, it had to find the alleged
public policy in authoritative sources, namely, in pronouncements by the
Legislature or the Executive, or in some fundamental purpose of the law. Further,
since the court was being asked to curtail what was, for analytical purposes,
the appellant’s right to adopt the Child, any countervailing public policy would
have to be balanced against the concern to promote the Child’s welfare: [128] to [130].
 
13          
The court established a two-step analytical
framework for taking public policy into account in a case such as the present. The
first step is a forensic exercise, by which the court determines whether the
alleged public policy exists and, if it does, whether the policy would be
violated if the claimed right were given effect. The second step is a balancing
exercise, in which the court considers the weight to be given to the value
underlying the claimed right and to the countervailing public policy
consideration, and then reasons towards an outcome which strikes the proper
balance between the competing considerations: [162].
The forensic exercise: Determining whether
the relevant public policies existed
14          
Although
the Guardian did not rely on a public policy against surrogacy, the issue of
the existence of this policy arose because the District Judge had based her
decision on such a policy. The court concluded that it could not and should not
articulate a public policy against surrogacy and give it weight in the present
case, given the still evolving nature of the Government’s position in the light
of the complexities surrounding the substantive issue. To do so would be to
fill a space in deliberative social policy-making that the other branches of
government, in whom the legislative imprimatur lay, had not stepped into or were
not yet prepared to step into: [166]
and [178] and [185].
 
15          
As
regards the Guardian’s case, the Guardian contended firstly that there was a
public policy in favour of parenthood within marriage. The court found that
there was strong evidence in ministerial speeches, legislation and regulations for
such a policy. This policy meant that the position to be encouraged is that the
family unit should be understood as comprising a married heterosexual couple
having and raising children, and in addition, this should be understood as
being the optimal parenting conditions under which a child in Singapore may be
raised. However, making an adoption order in this case would not be contrary to
this public policy, because the policy did not logically entail opposing other
forms of parenthood: [187] to [192].
 
16          
Second,
the Guardian submitted that there was a public policy against planned and
deliberate parenthood by singles through the use of ART or surrogacy. The court
doubted that this alleged policy could conceptually be regarded as a
“standalone” policy in the way the Guardian had contended. The court was also
not satisfied that the relevant materials supported the existence of such a
policy: [193] to [197] and [201].
 
17          
Third,
the Guardian argued that there was a public policy against the formation of same-sex
family units. The court was satisfied that there was such a policy, separate and
independent from the public policy in favour of parenthood within marriage. The
policy was directed at discouraging one category of alternative family unit,
namely, a same-sex family unit, which included a family where
there are two homosexual co-parenting individuals, as well as a family where
there is a single homosexual parent and a child, regardless of the gender of
the parent. Its existence was
supported by statements of the Prime Minister and various legislative
provisions. Making an adoption order in this case would be a breach of this
public policy because it would constitute a positive affirmation, and not
merely a reticent accommodation, of the appellant’s attempt at forming a
same-sex family unit: [202] to [207]. 
Payment in consideration of the adoption
18          
Before
undertaking the balancing exercise, the court examined the significance of the
appellant’s payment to M under the GSA. The court held that the payment did
constitute a prohibited payment under the Act because it was received by “any
parent” within the meaning of s 11, and it was a “payment or other reward in
consideration of the adoption of any infant”. M, being the Child’s birth
mother, was to be regarded as a “parent” of the Child within the meaning of s
11. The payment was “in consideration of the adoption” of the Child because the
GSA obliged M to cooperate with the appellant in the present proceedings to
constitute him the sole and exclusive legal parent of the Child. The GSA was
not simply an agreement that M carry a baby to term, but also an agreement that
she hand over the baby to the appellant and his partner with no strings
attached, and that she cooperate with them to formalise their relationship with
the baby after the handing over. However, the court decided that the payment
should be sanctioned under s 11, because it was for the purpose of adopting the
Child with a sincere desire to benefit and promote his welfare, and because sanctioning
the payment would not violate any public policy: [217], [219] to [224], [225] and [238] to [240].
The balancing exercise
19          
The
final step in the analysis was to ascribe the appropriate weight to the two
competing considerations in play: first, the concern to protect the welfare of
the Child, and second, the concern not to violate the public policy against the
formation of same-sex family units. This exercise was to be conducted with reference
to three factors: [242].
 
20          
First,
the greater the degree to which the public policy was rationally connected or
proximate to the legal issue before the court, the greater the weight that
ought to be given to it. Here, the public policy against the formation of
same-sex family units was clearly closely connected to the issue in dispute,
which was whether the Child should be adopted by the appellant: [154] and [243].
 
21          
Second,
the greater the degree to which the public policy concerned emanated from the
applicable statutory regime, the greater the weight that ought to be given to
it. Here, the public policy against the formation of same-sex family units did
not arise from the Act, and therefore, no weight could be given to it on this
count. By contrast, the concern to reach an outcome that promoted the Child’s
welfare was expressly provided for in the Act, and therefore was a reason that
warranted according it significant weight: [155]
and [244].
 
22          
Third,
the greater the degree to which the countervailing policy consideration would
be violated if the claimed right were given effect, the less willing the court
should be to give effect to it. An aspect of this factor is that the greater
the degree to which the party asserting the claimed right deliberately violated
the countervailing public policy consideration, the less willing the court
should be to give effect to the claimed right. On the other
hand, the greater the degree to which the value underlying the claimed right
would be advanced if the right were given effect, the more willing the court
should be to give effect to it: [156] to
[159] and [245] to [247].
 
23          
Here,
if an adoption order were made, the public policy against the formation of
same-sex family units would be violated significantly. At the same time,
nothing indicated that the appellant set out deliberately to violate any law or
public policy. Even though he could not have been unaware of the Government’s
position against the formation of same-sex family units, this was not
sufficient to demonstrate that he set out deliberately to violate a public policy
to that effect, especially having regard to the lack of clarity that had
hitherto existed as to the precise nature of the relevant public policy, a
point reflected in the fact that the Guardian struggled in these proceedings to
articulate the precise content of the public policies which, she contended,
would be violated by making an adoption order. On the other hand, the value
underlying the appellant’s claimed right, namely, the promotion of the welfare
of the Child, would be significantly advanced by making the adoption order
sought: [245] to [247].
 
24          
On
balance, significant weight was attributed to the concern not
to violate the public policy against the formation of same-sex family units on
account of its rational connection to the present dispute and the degree to
which it would be violated should an adoption order be made. However, in all
the circumstances of this case, neither of these reasons justified ignoring the
statutory imperative to promote the welfare of the Child and to regard it as
first and paramount. That imperative was also supported by the evidence, which
showed that the welfare of the Child would be materially advanced by making an
adoption order. With difficulty, therefore, the court concluded that an
adoption order ought to be made in this case: [248].
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
