

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


5 December 2018


Case summary



Mohamed Affandi bin Rosli v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2018]
SGCA 87



Criminal Appeals No 38 and 39 of 2017


____________________________________________________________________



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon on behalf of Senior Judge Chao Hick Tin and himself, with Judge
of Appeal Tay Yong Kwang dissenting)



Outcome: CoA (by a 2:1 majority) allows appeal by two appellants against HC
decision to convict both on charges of trafficking of diamorphine and
abetting by instigation of the same respectively; Prosecution failed to
establish beyond reasonable doubt the actual chain of custody of the drug
exhibits from the point of seizure to the point of analysis by the HSA.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment




    It was incumbent on the Prosecution to first establish the chain of
    custody of the exhibits beyond reasonable doubt, and to account for
    the movement of the exhibits from the point of seizure to the point
    of analysis. It would then be for the defence to suggest that there
    was a break in the chain of custody by raising reasonable doubt as
    to whether the chain of custody had been broken: at            [39] and [118].
    



    It is a fundamental requirement of fairness in our system of
    criminal justice that the accused is clear as to what that case is.
    Hence, the Prosecution could not discharge its burden of
    establishing the chain of custody of the exhibits by leading
    evidence in support of a range of options, which were inconsistent
    with one another, and then inviting the court to choose that which
    it wished. Not only would that be completely inconsistent with the
    way facts were to be found, it was fundamentally unfair to the
    accused who would be left to face a shifting case with moving
    parts: at [52].
    

Background to the appeal






    The appellants, Mohamed Affandi bin Rosli (“Affandi”) and
    Mohamad Fadzli bin Ahmad (“Fadzli”), faced various drug-related
    charges, two of which carry the mandatory death penalty.
    Affandi was charged with possession, for the purpose of
    trafficking, of not less than 132.82g of diamorphine, an
    offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the Misuse
    of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”). Fadzli was
    charged with abetting by instigating Affandi to commit the
    above, an offence under
    s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) and s 12 of the MDA. The High
    Court judge (“the Judge”) convicted both on these two charges and
    sentenced them to death. Both appealed against their convictions.
    

The material facts




    On 12 July 2013, eight bundles wrapped in black tape (“the black
    bundles”) were found in Affandi’s car, and they were later found to
    contain the aforementioned diamorphine. Fadzli was arrested on the
    same day. In Affandi’s contemporaneous statement (“P105”) and
    cautioned statement (“P115”), Affandi claimed that it was Fadzli
    who instructed him to collect the black bundles. He subsequently
    claimed to have done it on the instructions of one “Mamak”, and
    that he had implicated Fadzli in the earlier statements because he
    was scared and confused, and because a Central Narcotics Bureau
    (‘CNB”) officer was “pressurizing” him.
    



    Fadzli denied knowledge of the drugs or of what Affandi did. In
    Fadzli’s contemporaneous statement (“P106A”), he claimed to not
    recognise Affandi when he was shown a digital photo of him, though
    he readily identified and acknowledged that he knew Affandi when
    subsequent statements were recorded. Further, in a statement taken
    on 16 July 2013 (“P119”), Fadzli inserted a handwritten amendment
    to the original version of the statement indicating that he “was
    not known as Abut to anyone”. “Abut” was the name that Affandi used
    to address Fadzli. Fadzli subsequently explained at trial that he
    meant to say that he was not known as Abut to anyone            except his friends and family members.
    



    The Judge found that the two charges were made out, and imposed the
    mandatory death sentence on both appellants.
    



    On appeal, Affandi focused solely on attacking the integrity of the
    chain of custody of the exhibits. He argued that there were two
    weaknesses in the chain. First, there were differing accounts as to
    who in the arresting party had possession of the exhibits from the
    time they were seized until they were handed over to the
    Investigating Officer (“IO”). Second, after the IO took possession
    of the exhibits, she did not lock them in her safe, but left them
    on the floor of her office instead.
    



    Fadzli associated himself with the arguments made by Affandi on
    appeal, and further submitted that the version of events set out in
    P105 and P115 could not be relied upon as they contained assertions
    that were untrue or suspicious. Further, Fadzli argued that it was
    unsafe for the Judge to conclude that he had been lying in P106A
    given that the judge had no frame of reference to compare the photo
    to. In addition, Fadzli claimed that he had made a genuine mistake
    when amending his statement in P119.
    



    The Prosecution submitted that there was no break in the chain of
    custody of the exhibits. The Prosecution premised its case against
    Fadzli on version of events set out in P105 and P115, and on what
    they alleged to be lies in P106A and P119.
    


    The Decision of the majority (delivered by Chief Justice
    Sundaresh Menon on behalf of Senior Judge Chao Hick Tin and
    himself)
    




    The majority allowed both appeals and set aside the convictions of
    both Affandi and Fadzli on their respective capital charges. The
    primary finding was that the Prosecution failed to establish the
    chain of custody of the relevant exhibits: at            [57] and [100].
    

The integrity of the chain of custody




    It was incumbent on the Prosecution to first establish the chain of
    custody of the exhibits beyond reasonable doubt, and to account for
    the movement of the exhibits from the point of seizure to the point
    of analysis. It would then be for the defence to suggest that there
    was a break in the chain of custody by raising reasonable doubt as
    to whether the chain of custody had been broken. The Prosecution
    could not discharge its burden by leading evidence in support of a
    range of options, which were inconsistent with one another, and
    then inviting the court to choose that which it wished. Not only
    would that be completely inconsistent with the way facts were to be
    found, it was fundamentally unfair to the accused who would be left
    to face a shifting case with moving parts: at            [39] and [52].
    



    During the course of the trial, two inconsistent narratives emerged
    as to how the drugs were handled by officers in the arresting
    party. In particular, there were inconsistencies as to where the
    drug exhibits were or who held the exhibits: (a) when the CNB
    operational vehicle was on the move between Affandi’s workplace,
    his flat and the Woodlands Checkpoint; (b) when the arresting party
    was searching Affandi’s flat; (c) when backscatter and K-9 searches
    were conducted on Affandi’s vehicle; and (d) after the arresting
    party returned to CNB headquarters. Neither of these two complete
    and mutually exclusive chains of custody of exhibits was
    established beyond a reasonable doubt. Each raised a reasonable
    doubt as to the other in relation to the manner in which the black
    bundles were seized from the accused and then passed to the CNB
    headquarters and the HSA. Given that there were two irreconcilable
    narratives on the evidence, the Prosecution had not properly strung
    a chain of custody: at [48] and             [51].
    



    Affandi’s second argument was speculative as the IO’s office was
    locked and even though the keys to her office were centrally
    available, there was a clear protocol to be followed – the IO’s
    personal authorisation was required before anybody else could enter
    the office. During the period in question, no one had requested
    such access, and there was nothing to suggest that the protocol had
    been compromised: at [56].
    

The version of events in P105 and P115




    There were three factors that gave rise to a reasonable doubt as to
    whether Fadzli was the mastermind behind Affandi’s involvement in
    the trafficking of the seized diamorphine. First, the amount of
    seized diamorphine was sizeable but on the available evidence,
    Fadzli did not even check on the black bundles when he met Affandi
    on 12 July 2013. Secondy, Affandi had direct access to one “Mamak”,
    who was identified by the Prosecution to be Fadzli’s drug supplier.
    But if Mamak was content to contact Affandi directly, Fadzli would
    have been superfluous and nothing was advanced to explain this and
    in particular to explain what his role was. Third, Affandi
    subsequently said that what he had said in P105 and P115, which was
    the sole basis of the case against Fadzli, was untrue, and that he
    had been acting on the directions of Mamak instead. Even though the
    court would nonetheless be permitted to rely on such withdrawn
    statements, the fact that the statements were retracted gave rise
    to the need to subject such statements to “painstaking if not
    relentless scrutiny”, and to assess the evidence carefully in order
    to consider whether it is nonetheless reliable having regard to all
    the circumstances of the case. This was especially relevant in the
    present case where the Judge harboured concerns over Affandi’s
    credibility and where the Prosecution had also accepted that Mamak
    was in fact Affandi’s supplier of the drugs: at            [62]–[64].
    



    There were numerous inconsistencies and difficulties with P105 and
    P115. First, Affandi claimed to have collected the diamorphine from
    the heavy vehicle carpark near Ten Mile Junction but he changed his
    account several times and his vehicle was not captured in CCTV
    footage of the area during the material period. Second, Affandi
    claimed to have used the word “panas” despite not knowing what it
    meant because he overheard one of the arresting officers using it.
    This was simply untenable. Third, in P105, Affandi mentioned
    receiving a loan of $1,500 but later, in P115, claimed to receive
    remuneration of $400–$500 per collection. Finally, in P105, Affandi
    claimed that the present case was the first time he received drugs
    on behalf of Fadzli but later, in P115, claimed to have been doing
    it for a month at a frequency of once or twice a week: at            [67]–[69].
    



    The Prosecution could not rely on the alleged lies in P106A and
    P119. In relation to the failure to recognise Affandi from the
    photographs shown to him, the Judge had not satisfactorily
    established for himself a proper frame of reference within which he
    could assess Fadzli’s evidence. There was no direct evidence as to
    exactly which photo was shown. Moreover, none of the photos before
    the Judge were in a digital form. Moreover, Fadzli was quick to
    acknowledge that he knew Affandi when subsequent statements were
    taken from him. It therefore did not seem that Fadzli had any real
    desire to distance himself from Affandi. In relation to the
    statement that he was not known as “Abut”, it did not seem to be
    the case that Fadzli was trying to dissociate himself from Affandi
    by making this statement given that he had not denied knowing and
    meeting Affandi in his cautioned statement given three days
    earlier: at [84], [85] and             [91].
    



    It was inconclusive that there were communications between Affandi
    and Fadzli in the early morning of 12 July 2013 as there was also a
    heightened level of communication between Affandi and Mamak during
    that period. It was equally plausible that Mamak and Affandi were
    in touch for the delivery of the bundles, and that Fadzli was not
    involved: at [97]–[99].
    


    Decision of the minority (delivered by Judge of Appeal Tay Yong
    Kwang)
    




    Tay Yong Kwang JA dismissed both appeals and affirmed the decision
    of the Judge in convicting both appellants on their respective
    capital charges. There was no break in the chain of custody of the
    drug exhibits and Fadzli was found correctly to have abetted
    Affandi by instigating him to be in possession of the seized
    diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking. Tay JA also affirmed
    the Judge’s decision to impose the mandatory death sentence on both
    appellants: at [106], [117] and            [176].
    



    Whether there was a break in the chain of custody of the
    exhibits
    





    The Prosecution bore the burden of proving beyond reasonable doubt
    that the drug exhibits seized by the CNB officers were the
    substances eventually analysed by the HSA, and where there was a
    break in the chain of custody such that a reasonable doubt arose as
    to the identity of the drug exhibits, the Prosecution would not
    have discharged this burden. However, speculative arguments
    regarding the mere possibility of contamination will not be
    sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt as to the identity of the
    exhibits: at [118].
    



    Affandi’s two arguments regarding the chain of custody of the
    exhibits fell within the realm of speculation and did not rise to
    the level of creating a reasonable doubt as to the identity of the
    seized drug exhibits. First, the two inconsistent narratives
    provided by the relevant CNB officers regarding the carriage of the
    exhibits did not suggest that there was a break in the chain of
    custody of the exhibits because going by either version of events,
    there was a single unbroken chain of custody of the exhibits from
    the seizure of the exhibits to the handing over of the exhibits.
    From the moment the exhibits were seized, they were not unaccounted
    for and they remained in the custody and control of at least one
    member of the team of CNB officers. Second, the argument that the
    IO did not store the exhibits properly after getting custody of
    them was premised on a mere theoretical possibility of
    contamination of the exhibits, and was incapable of raising any
    reasonable doubt as to the identity of the exhibits: at[120], [122],            [123], [125].
    



    As regards the DNA profiling evidence, it did not matter that
    neither Affandi’s nor Fadzli’s DNA was found on any of the black
    bundles. There could be no doubt that the trash bag that the black
    bundles were in came from the CNB operation at MBS. As for the DNA
    traces of two other persons on two of the black bundles, the mere
    fact that someone had come into contact with one or some of the
    drug exhibits could not mean that the chain of custody was thereby
    broken: at [126] and [129].
    



    Whether Fadzli abetted Affandi by instigating him in the
    trafficking of the seized diamorphine
    





    Fadzli’s claim that he had met Affandi on 12 July 2013 for the sole
    purpose of collecting groceries purchased by Affandi for donation
    to an orphanage was not credible. First, there was no urgent need
    for Fadzli to insist on meeting Affandi on 12 July 2013 to collect
    the groceries for donation during the month of Ramadan because Hari
    Raya Puasa in 2013 was about 26 days away, and the groceries
    purchased were not perishables. Second, there was no good reason
    for Fadzli to travel to Affandi’s workplace in town just to collect
    goods for donation because both Affandi and Fadzli lived in the
    east, and the orphanage was also in the east: at            [133]–[136].
    



    P105 and P115 constituted reliable evidence of Fadzli’s guilt.
    




        Confessions that have been retracted could still be used
        against a co-accused, depending on whether the witness
        retracting his statement can give a reasonable and reliable
        explanation for his retraction. Affandi’s reasons for
        retracting P105 and P115 should be rejected. Among other
        things, Affandi was lucid and had a clear mind when
        providing those statements, appeared to give those
        statements under no stress or pressure, and had no reason
        to implicate a close friend even if he wanted to provide
        substantive assistance by identifying someone falsely as
        having greater involvement in the drug activities: at[140], [141] and                    [145].
        



        The inconsistencies between P105 and P115 did not affect
        the core of those statements, which comprised the following
        common facts: (i) Fadzli was the one who instructed Affandi
        to collect the bundles of “panas”; (ii) Affandi would
        collect and safekeep the bundles for Fadzli; (iii) Affandi
        needed money; and (iv) money was passed by Fadzli to
        Affandi for doing these tasks. These facts were sufficient
        to implicate Fadzli: at [149].
        



        P105 and P115 were not contradicted materially by objective
        evidence. First, although the telephone records showed that
        Affandi had direct contact with Mamak previously, in the
        absence of information as to the contents of the calls,
        they were not capable of showing that Fadzli did not
        instigate Affandi to possess the seized diamorphine for the
        purpose of trafficking. Second, the telephone records
        showed that there had been constant communication between
        Affandi and Fadzli after Affandi had collected the drugs.
        Third, although the fact that Affandi’s car was not
        captured on the CCTV at the relevant junction at the
        material time contradicted Affandi’s account of the route
        he took as presented in P105, this inconsistency did not
        materially affect the rest of P105. Finally, there was
        strong forensic evidence that corroborated P105: at[150], [152],                    [157]–[159].
        




    The two lies told by Fadzli were capable of corroborating the
    evidence that supported the finding that Fadzli was guilty of the
    offence as charged. First, Fadzli clearly told a Lucas lie
    when he said he did not recognise Affandi in the photo while P106
    was being recorded. This lie was in relation to a material issue of
    whether Fadzli knew Affand, and Fadzli told this lie deliberately
    and was motivated by a desire to dissociate himself from Affandi
    because his explanation for his failure to recognise Affandi was
    unbelievable. Second, Fadzli also told a Lucas lie when
    adding the statement that he “was not known as Abut to anyone” in
    P119 because there was absolutely no reason for him to volunteer
    this statement. The clear inference to be drawn from this
    deliberate and unsolicited insertion in P119 was that Fadzli was
    trying to distance himself from Affandi and the drugs that were
    still in Affandi’s custody: at [163],[167], [168] and            [172].
    






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgments. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgments.

