
      
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
8 November 2018
Case summary
TIC v TID [2018] SGCA 75
Civil Appeal No 183 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
Outcome: CoA finds party to divorce proceedings who was to take over other party’s share of matrimonial property solely liable for mortgage and property tax payments between date of court order and date of completion
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


In cases where one party to a divorce was given the option of buying over the other party’s share of the matrimonial property, it was important for the court concerned to identify the different types of payments involved and to state who would bear the payments in the interim period between the date of the court order and the date of completion of the transfer (at [25]).


In relation to mortgage payments, the prima facie position was that the eventual owner of the property should bear the payments during the interim period because it was the only party who would benefit from any payments made. However, this position could be displaced in the appropriate circumstances (at [9] and [20]).


In relation to property tax payments, the prima facie position was that the payments during the interim period should be borne by the party who should be taken to be the owner of the property. Such ownership should reflect the terms of the court order even if the actual outcome had not been legally effected. This prima facie position could also be displaced if the circumstances so required (at [21] and [22]).


 
Background to the appeal
1          This appeal examined the situation of parties to divorce proceedings where one of the parties was given the option of taking over the other party’s share of the matrimonial property. The question before the Court of Appeal was whether the party who was to take over the property should be ordered to bear its ongoing liabilities during the interim period between the date of the order and the date of completion of the transfer.
Facts
2          The parties before the Court of Appeal were parties to divorce proceedings. On 10 September 2015, the District Judge in the family court apportioned the net equity in the matrimonial property in a 59:41 ratio in favour of the Wife and gave the Wife the option of taking over the Husband’s share of the property upon payment of a fixed sum. The Wife appealed to the High Court. The High Court judge (“the judge”) varied the ratio of the net equity of the property to 58:42 in favour of the Wife but affirmed the District Judge’s decision in relation to the option to take over the property.
3          On 21 June 2017, pursuant to the parties’ applications, the Judge ordered the parties to bear the ongoing liabilities of the property during the interim period in their respective proportions of the net equity. However, after hearing further arguments from the Husband on 27 June and 31 August 2017, during which the Wife confirmed that she wanted to take over the Husband’s share of the property, the Judge revised her initial order, ordering the Wife to be solely liable for the ongoing liabilities, which the parties agreed was a sum of $30,246.48. The Wife appealed against the decision of the Judge.
Decision on appeal
4          The Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s finding that the Wife should bear the ongoing liabilities solely. The court, however, distinguished between mortgage payments and property tax payments, which made up the sum of $30,246.48 in the present case, because they attracted different considerations (at [8]).
5          In relation to mortgage payments, the Court of Appeal held that the key factor was that the eventual owner of the property (here, the Wife) would be the sole beneficiary of any payments made towards the outstanding mortgage during the interim period. It would thus be fair that the eventual owner be ordered to bear the payments during the said period. In the present case, the net equity of the property was fixed as at the date of the court order. Any mortgage payments made after the date of the court order, which would have increased the net equity of the property, would have benefited only the Wife and not the Husband. It was thus fair that the mortgage payments were to be borne by the Wife (at [9] and [10]).
6          In coming to this conclusion, the court rejected the Wife’s argument that she had not actually obtained any benefit in the present case as the value of the property had fallen. By taking up the option to purchase the Husband’s share of the property, she would have known that there was a real chance that the value of the property would fall. However, the court also rejected the Husband’s argument that the Wife’s occupation of the property during the interim period was a relevant factor to consider, because the occupant of the property would neither benefit nor suffer a detriment from the payment of the outstanding mortgage (at [11] and [18]).
7          Nevertheless, the Court of Appeal emphasised that this was only a prima facie position that could be displaced in the appropriate circumstances, although no such circumstances were raised in the present case (at [20]).
8          The Court of Appeal held that property tax payments, however, did not stand on the same footing as mortgage payments, because they did not affect the net equity of the property and were instead tariffs levied on the ownership of the property, independent of its occupation or beneficial use. Thus, the prima facie position was that such payments should be borne by the party who should be taken to be the owner of the property, subject to the power of the court to make a contrary order if the circumstances so required. In the context of the division of matrimonial property, the ownership of the property as at the date of the court order would reflect the terms of the order even if the actual outcome had not been legally effected (at [21] and [22]).
9          In the present case, the Wife was the notional owner of the property at the date of the court order, since the order gave the Wife the option of taking over the property and she confirmed at the hearings of 27 June and 31 August 2017 that she would be doing so. She should therefore prima facie bear the property tax payments during the interim period and there were no special circumstances that called for this position to be displaced (at [23]).
10        The Court of Appeal expressed the view that in cases where one party to a divorce was given the option of buying over the other party’s share of the matrimonial property, it would be important for the court to identify the different types of payments involved and to state whether it was applying the prima facie position or whether there were special circumstances on the facts which justify the imposition of a specific, tailored order. This would make clear to the parties who should bear the payments and would also assist the appellate court, in the case of an appeal, in determining whether the court making the order had taken into account the relevant considerations. Given that most cases would fall within the prima facie positions set out by the Court of Appeal, this would also not be overly onerous for the court concerned. In situations where the party being afforded the option to take over the property did not immediately indicate whether he or she wished to do so it would be open to the court to make an order on the basis that the option would be taken up, but with liberty to the other party to apply to the court to reapportion the payment of the liabilities should it turn out that the option was not taken up and the property was sold in the open market (at [25] and [26]).
11        Finally, the court affirmed the Judge’s finding that the effective date of the order was 10 September 2015. This was the date of the District Judge’s order that divided the matrimonial property that the Judge varied but did not set aside. The court rejected the Wife’s argument that she was prejudiced by the length of the interim period. The Judge was entitled to ask for all the information that she considered potentially relevant, even if this necessitated a longer period of time to resolve the appeals (at [27] and [28]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
