
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
5 November 2018
Case summary
Lua Bee Kiang (administrator of the estate of Chew Kong Seng) v Yeo Chee Siong [2018] SGCA 74
Civil Appeal No 162 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
The CoA sets out two-stage analysis for assessing damages for pain and suffering, and clarifies approach to assessing costs of managing possible onset of medical condition attributable to injury caused by defendant.
Introduction


Mr Yeo Chee Siong sustained multiple injuries as a result of an accident caused by the careless driving of his colleague, Mr Chew Kong Seng, who died from the accident. In December 2015, Mr Yeo obtained interlocutory judgment against Mr Chew’s estate, currently administered by Mdm Lua Bee Kiang. In August 2017, the High Court Judge awarded Mr Yeo damages in the total sum of $576,626. The Judge arrived at this sum by using the “component” method for assessing damages, by which she first awarded separate amounts for each item of loss and then added up the amounts to arrive at the total sum. Mdm Lua appealed, complaining that four aspects of that award were excessive, namely, $326,000 for Mr Yeo’s pain, suffering and loss of amenity; $72,000 for his loss of future earnings; $5,000 for his loss of earning capacity; and $76,800 for the cost of future nursing care. ([2]–[6])


The Court of Appeal allowed Mdm Lua’s appeal to the extent that the award for pain, suffering and loss of amenity was reduced from $326,000 to $200,000 and the award for cost of future nursing care was reduced from $76,800 to $46,080. Accordingly, Mr Yeo’s total award was reduced from $576,626 to $419,906. ([86])
Pain, suffering and loss of amenity


Mdm Lua contended that the award of $326,000 was manifestly excessive, and that the Judge was wrong to apply the component method. The court agreed that the award was excessive, principally because the Judge failed to consider whether the aggregate sum yielded by the component method reflected the totality of Mr Yeo’s injuries. ([8])


The court observed that the guiding principle for assessing non-pecuniary loss in personal injury cases was that of fair compensation. Singapore courts traditionally employed two methods for achieving fair compensation in this context: first, the component method, as described above; and second, the global method, by which all the injuries sustained by the claimant were considered holistically to arrive at an estimation of his overall loss. While it was sometimes suggested that each case presented a choice between the two, it was more helpful to view them as complementary rather than mutually exclusive, because they were simply different practical modes of producing a fair estimate of the claimant’s loss. ([9]–[11])


In cases where the claimant suffered multiple injuries, the court should apply a two-stage analysis ([13] and [23]):


First, the component method should be applied to ensure that the loss arising from each distinct injury suffered was accounted for and quantified. Reference might be made to the assessment guidelines at this stage, but it should be remembered that they were no more than guidelines. ([13]–[15])


Second, the global method should be applied to ensure that the overall award was reasonable and neither excessive nor inadequate. This exercise was guided by at least two considerations. First, to avoid overcompensation, the court had to account for “overlapping” injuries, that is, injuries which either (i) together resulted in pain that would not have been differentially felt by the claimant or (ii) together gave rise to only a single disability. Second, the court had to consider the relevant precedents to reach a fair estimate and to ensure that like cases were treated alike. ([13] and [16]–[18])




Applying this analysis, at the first stage, the court concluded that the Judge misclassified Mr Yeo’s brain injury as more serious than it was under the relevant assessment guidelines, and so the award for that injury had to be reduced. But the awards for his skull fractures, facial injuries and bodily injuries were not objectionable on their own. In the result, the component method, properly applied, should have yielded an aggregate sum of about $266,000, not $326,000. ([25], [31], [34], [36] and [37])


At the second stage, the court held that there was some degree of overlapping between Mr Yeo’s skull and facial injuries which the Judge did not take into account. The court also considered that the Judge’s award of $326,000 was out of line with many precedents in which the claimant was not only younger than Mr Yeo (and therefore had a long time of suffering ahead to endure) but also suffered more serious brain injuries than he did, and yet received significantly less than $326,600 in compensation. Mr Yeo did, however, suffer much more serious injuries in the immediate aftermath of the accident than the claimants did in those cases. Taking all the circumstances into account, the court held that it was appropriate to reduce his award to $200,000. ([39], [45]–[47] and [49])
Loss of earning capacity


Mdm Lua submitted that the Judge should not have awarded Mr Yeo $5,000 for loss of earning capacity because he did not adduce any evidence to show that he would be at risk of losing his current employment. The court rejected this argument because the question was not whether he was at risk of losing his current, post-accident employment, but whether he had been prevented from competing in the market for his pre-accident job, and the evidence was that he had been. ([50])
Loss of future earnings


Mdm Lua contended that the Judge’s choice of five years for the multiplier, based on Mr Yeo’s working until he was 70, was wrong because (a) the statutory retirement age was 67; (b) the multiplier did not account for future contingencies and accelerated receipt; and (c) the multiplier did not account for the fact that Mr Yeo’s pre-accident job was a blue-collar occupation. The court rejected arguments (a) and (c) as wrong in principle because remaining work life expectancy was a matter to be decided on the facts of each case. The court rejected argument (b) on the basis that where a claimant’s remaining work life expectancy was short, the putative investment risk upon which the discount to the applicable multiplier would be based is likely to be non-existent or even negative. ([53], [54] and [57]–[60])


Mdm Lua also argued that the Judge should have used a multiplicand of $500 and not $1,200 because Mr Yeo would have had to reduce the scope of his work as he approached retirement. The court rejected this argument as it was based on speculation. The evidence suggested that Mr Yeo would have worked as he had normally worked until he had to stop. ([61]) 
Cost of future nursing care


The court held that in assessing damages for future loss arising from the possible onset of a medical condition as a result of the defendant’s negligence, the court must first determine whether there was an appreciable risk that the claimant would suffer that loss. If there was, then the court must evaluate that risk. The court might take as its starting point an award corresponding to the full extent of that loss, then adjust it to account for the remoteness of the possibility and the chance that factors unconnected with the defendant’s negligence might contribute to bringing about the loss. The appropriate discount ought to be decided bearing in mind the principle that the opposing probabilities must be weighed with sympathy and with fairness for the interests of all concerned and at all times with a sense of proportion. ([72])


Accordingly, the court rejected Mdm Lua’s submission that the Judge should not have awarded any sum for cost of future nursing care as Mr Yeo had not proved on a balance of probabilities that he would develop dementia in the future in order to justify being compensated for the cost of managing that condition. The evidence was that if Mr Yeo developed dementia, it was highly likely that he would need full-time nursing care, and that Mr Chew’s negligence had increased Mr Yeo’s risk of developing dementia from 2% to 5–10%. In the court’s view, this was an appreciable risk. Considering that Mr Chew’s negligence more than doubled that risk, and that Mr Yeo’s current living conditions were somewhat precarious given that he had no immediate family, the court was satisfied that a discount of 40% to $76,800 would ensure that he received fair compensation in this regard. ([78]–[80])


Finally, Mdm Lua contended that the Judge erred in assuming the monthly cost of Mr Yeo’s future nursing care to be $3,200, arguing that the witness who classified Mr Yeo under the category of patients who required care at that cost was not qualified to make that classification. The court rejected this argument because the question was not whether Mr Yeo was presently correctly classified, but if he developed dementia, what his cost of nursing care would be. On that hypothesis, it was reasonable for the Judge to use $3,200 because Mr Yeo would then fall, squarely into the category of patients mentioned above. Accordingly, $76,800 correctly represented full compensation for cost of future nursing, and with the 40% discount applied, the award was reduced to $46,080. ([83]–[85])
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


