

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


25 October 2018


Case summary



Public Prosecutor v Gobi a/l Avedian

Criminal Appeal No 20 of 2017



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Tay Yong
Kwang):



Outcome: CoA allowed the Public Prosecutor’s appeal, set aside the
conviction and sentence by the High Court on the reduced charge and
convicted the respondent on the original charge of importation of
diamorphine under the Misuse of Drugs Act.


 


Background to the appeal


1 Criminal Appeal No 20 of 2017 was an appeal by the Public Prosecutor
against the decision of the trial judge in    Public Prosecutor v Gobi a/l Avedian [2017] SGHC 145.


Facts


2 The respondent, Gobi a/l Avedian, was charged with one count of importing
40.22g of diamorphine, a Class A controlled drug, which is an offence under
s 7 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed)(“the Act”). The sole
issue at the trial below was whether the respondent had rebutted the
presumption of knowledge of the nature of the drug under s 18(2) of the
Act.


3 The respondent was arrested at the Woodlands Checkpoint with drugs found
hidden in the motorcycle that he was riding. At the trial, the respondent
claimed that he was assured by one Vinod, who instructed him to bring into
Singapore, that the items were only “chocolate drugs” and that if he were
caught with them, he would only be fined or given light punishment. The
respondent initially refused to carry out the delivery but eventually did
so because he needed money for his daughter’s operation. According to the
respondent, he also asked a friend, Jega, about the “chocolate drugs”
before transporting them into Singapore. The respondent informed Jega that
the “chocolate drugs” were to be used in discos and Jega apparently told
him that if that was so, the drugs were not very dangerous nor terrible.
The respondent also admitted to delivering similar bundles of drugs into
Singapore on eight or nine previous occasions before he was apprehended.


4 The trial judge found that the presumption was rebutted and exercised his
power to convict the respondent on a reduced charge of attempting to import
into Singapore a Class C controlled drug. The trial judge sentenced the
respondent to 15 years’ imprisonment with effect from the date of arrest
and to ten strokes of the cane for the reduced charge.


5 The Public Prosecutor appealed on the ground that the Judge erred in
finding that the presumption was rebutted.


 


 


 


Decision on appeal


6 The Court of Appeal allowed the Prosecution’s appeal and convicted the
respondent on the original charge of importing into Singapore a Class A
controlled drug. The sole issue on appeal was similarly whether the
presumption in s 18(2) of the Act had been rebutted. The Court of Appeal
found that the respondent had not rebutted the presumption (at    [31]).


7 The Court of Appeal noted that the presumption in s 18(2) operates to
vest the respondent with knowledge of the nature of the drug which he is in
possession of and to rebut this, the respondent must give an account of
what he thought it was (at [32]). The Court of Appeal
found that the respondent failed to do so. First, the Court of Appeal held
that it was not enough for the respondent, who knew that he was
transporting illegal drugs, to state merely that he did not know what sort
of drugs they were or that he had never heard of diamorphine or heroin (at    [35]). This was because if the respondent did not know
what diamorphine was, he could not possibly claim that the drugs he was
carrying were not diamorphine (at [35]). Second, the
penalties that a particular type of drug attracts in law cannot be used as
a proxy for identifying the drug itself (at [36]). The
Court of Appeal also noted that if the respondent intended to refuse to
carry drugs that attracted the death penalty, then it was incumbent on him
to find out what sorts of drugs would lead to such a penalty and how he was
to identify them. However, the respondent did not take such steps in this
case (at [36]). Third, the Court of Appeal found that
since the respondent did not know the name of the drugs that he was to
carry, he could not possibly verify whether those drugs were dangerous in
that they could lead to the death penalty or a long term of imprisonment
(at [37]). In particular, the Court of Appeal pointed out
that the inquiries made by the respondent as to how dangerous or serious
the drugs were in relation to the penalties that they would attract would
not have informed him about the nature of the drugs because he had no
knowledge about whether diamorphine would attract a fine or a long
imprisonment term or the death penalty (at [37]). For
these reasons, it was held that the presumption of knowledge in s 18(2) of
the Act was not rebutted (at [38]).


8 The Court of Appeal also had grave reservations about the respondent’s
evidence. In relation to the respondent’s trust in Vinod, his supplier, the
Court of Appeal stated that in determining whether the respondent believed     subjectively the information supplied by Vinod, it would consider
the knowledge of and the efforts made by the accused person to find out
about the drugs that he was going to traffic in (at [39]).
It was observed that Vinod did not give the respondent any information that
would help the respondent to identify the drugs (at [40])
and there was little reason for the respondent to trust Vinod in any case
(at [41]).


9 The Court of Appeal observed that there were several problems with the
respondent’s evidence on the assurances given by his friend, Jega, to him
(at [44]). First, the respondent did not mention these
assurances in his statements to the police. Second, the respondent did not
adduce any evidence concerning Jega’s knowledge or experience in drugs.
Third, the respondent did not ask Jega any questions in relation to the
nature of the drugs that would help the respondent to identify them.


10 The Court of Appeal also commented that any visual inspection by the
respondent would not have helped him given his evidence that he knew very
little about drugs (at [47]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


