
 

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


24 October 2018


Case summary



Re Nalpon, Zero Geraldo Mario


[2018] SGCA 71


Civil Appeal No 197 of 2017



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):



Outcome: CoA dismissed lawyer Zero Nalpon’s appeal for leave to
bring judicial review proceedings against a decision made by the Law
Society of Singapore. Mr Nalpon had complained against three lawyers who
were his opposing counsel in a lawsuit but the complaint was dismissed by
the Law Society.


 


Background to the appeal


1 Civil Appeal No 197 of 2017 was an appeal by Zero Geraldo Mario Nalpon
(“the appellant”) against the decision of the trial judge (“the Judge”) in    Re Nalpon, Zero Geraldo Mario [2017] SGHC 301.


Facts


2 The appellant is a practising lawyer. In May 2017, he lodged a complaint
with the Law Society of Singapore against three other lawyers who were his
opposing counsel in a lawsuit in the High Court (“the Lawyers”). The
appellant alleged that the Lawyers had, amongst other things, misled the
court, suppressed evidence and assisted their client to give false
information in court.


3 In accordance with the Law Society’s usual procedure, the complaint was
referred to a Review Committee for examination. The Review Committee
dismissed the complaint and stated in its letter to the appellant that the
information and documents provided by the appellant did not provide any
support for his complaint. The appellant was dissatisfied with this
decision and applied to the High Court for leave to commence judicial
review proceedings in respect of the Review Committee’s decision. The
appellant argued that the decision of the Review Committee was so
unreasonable that no reasonable person who applies his mind to the question
to be decided would have arrived at the same decision.


4 The Judge dismissed the appellant’s application and declined to grant
leave to commence judicial review proceedings. The Judge found that the
appellant had not established an arguable or prima facie case for
the granting of leave for judicial review. This was because the sensible
inference to be drawn from the Review Committee’s letter was that it had
properly considered the complaint and found no basis for the appellant’s
grievance. The Judge also found that there were reasonable grounds to
support the Review Committee’s decision, in particular that the issue was a
matter that the appellant could pursue at the trial of the suit.


 


 


Decision on appeal


5 The Court of Appeal dismissed the appellant’s appeal.


6 The Court of Appeal noted that there were three requirements that the
appellant had to fulfil to be granted leave to start judicial review
proceedings: he must have standing, the decision he is challenging must be
susceptible to judicial review and there must be a prima facie
case of reasonable suspicion that he will succeed on the main application
(at [20]). Only the last was in issue in the present
appeal.


7 The Court of Appeal found that, in order to substantiate his complaint,
the appellant could not simply furnish the Law Society with the documents
that he believed showed that the lawyers and their client had lied to the
court. Instead, he had to give the Review Committee some evidence to
support the contention that the Lawyers were aware of and complicit in that
lie, that they were going beyond their duty to make the best possible case
for their client, and instead were knowingly advancing a false rather than
a flawed case (at [30]). The Court of Appeal observed that
the appellant had not done so; the appellant did not point out
incontrovertible evidence or documents that flew in the face of the
instructions given by the client to the lawyers in his complaint letter to
the Law Society (at [31]). The Court of Appeal also found
that the appellant’s complaint letter lacked focus and failed to draw
attention to the key documents in the bundle that the appellant considered
supported his complaint (at [32]). Rather, all the Review
Committee had before it were the bare documents without explanation or,
indeed, a clear submission from the appellant as to how the Lawyers were
knowingly misleading the court (at [36]). The Court of
Appeal explained that just because a set of facts is affirmed as true and
adduced in court and, subsequently, the court has made a finding that those
facts were untrue, it does not follow that the counsel who presented the
case for the “untruthful” party had themselves lied or misled the court.
This is because by profession, counsel have to advocate a certain version
of events in the face of contradictory evidence adduced by the other party
(at [37]). Lastly, the Court of Appeal held that the
appellant’s allegation that the lawyers had suppressed evidence was a bare
one that was not substantiated by the documents submitted by the appellant
(at [38]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


