
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
22 October 2018
Case summary
Glaziers Engineering Pte Ltd v WCS Engineering Construction Pte Ltd [2018] SGCA 66
Civil Appeal No 144 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JA):
Outcome: CoA reverses High Court’s finding that adjudicator breached natural justice by applying “beyond reasonable doubt” standard in proceedings where parties did not address adjudicator on applicable standard of persuasion.
Background to the appeal
1          This was an appeal brought by Glaziers Engineering Pte Ltd (“the appellant”) against the decision of the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) in WCS Engineering Construction Pte Ltd v Glaziers Engineering Pte Ltd [2018] SGHC 28 to set aside an adjudication determination in proceedings commenced pursuant to the Building and Construction Industry Security of Payment Act (Cap 30B, 2006 Rev Ed). The Judge found that the adjudicator had breached the principles of natural justice by applying the standard of “beyond reasonable doubt” to ascertain whether WCS Engineering Construction Pte Ltd (“the respondent”) was entitled to make certain deductions from the appellant’s payment claim, without affording the parties an opportunity to address him on the applicable standard of persuasion. 
Facts
2          The respondent was the main contractor for the construction of a residential development known as “The Hillford”. It engaged the appellant as subcontractor to carry out certain works including the fabrication, supply and installation of shower screens in all bathrooms in The Hillford. After construction was completed, the sliding doors in the shower screens of several units shattered while in use. Some of these incidents resulted in personal injuries. The respondent took the position that the appellant was responsible for the shattering shower screens because it had failed to comply with the subcontract. Thus, when the appellant served a payment claim on the respondent for work done under the subcontract which remained unpaid, the respondent in its payment response claimed it was entitled to set off the amounts due to the appellant against a back charge for costs arising from the shattering shower screens, including the costs of remedial measures taken, and medical claims from residents which the respondent had reimbursed (“the back charge”).
3          The dispute proceeded to adjudication. In the course of the proceedings, the appellant argued that the respondent had produced insufficient evidence to support its back charge, while the respondent argued that it had sufficiently substantiated the back charge. However, neither party addressed the adjudicator on the applicable standard against which he should assess the respondent’s claims.
4          In his adjudication determination, the adjudicator stated that he was not satisfied “beyond reasonable doubt” that the appellant was responsible for the shattering shower screens. On this basis, he allowed the appellant’s claim for payment in full and rejected the respondent’s claimed entitlement to a set-off for the costs arising from the shattering shower screens. 
5          The respondent commenced proceedings in the High Court to set aside the adjudication determination on the ground that the adjudicator had breached the principles of natural justice. The Judge allowed the application and set aside the adjudication determination The appellant appealed.
Decision on appeal
6          The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal, finding that the adjudicator did not breach the principles of natural justice. In the first place, it was doubtful that the adjudicator, who was not a legally-trained person, had applied the standard of “beyond reasonable doubt” in the way that a legally-trained individual would understand that standard (at [50]). It was more likely that the adjudicator used the term “beyond reasonable doubt” simply to express his views about the insufficiency of the evidence to support the respondent’s claimed entitlement to a set-off (at [51]).
7          Even if the adjudicator applied the standard of “beyond reasonable doubt” in the way that a legally-trained person would understand that standard, this was not a breach of natural justice. A breach of natural justice would be made out if a decision-maker determined a dispute on a point that the parties did not have a reasonable opportunity to address (at [54]). However, in situations where the parties could have reasonably foreseen that an issue would form an important part of the decision-maker’s determination, but chose not to address the decision-maker on that issue, they could not complain that they had been denied a reasonable opportunity to be heard (at [60]). 
8          In this case, the applicable standard of persuasion was an issue so integral and crucial to the adjudicator’s task of determining the dispute that he could not have made a decision without coming to a view on the applicable standard of persuasion. The parties ought reasonably to have foreseen this (at [63]). They had taken diametrically opposing positions regarding the sufficiency of the evidence in the adjudication proceedings, and should have realised that the standard of persuasion to be met would be an issue of decisive importance (at [66]). If they nevertheless chose not to address the adjudicator on the applicable standard of persuasion, they could not complain that they had been deprived of a fair hearing (at [64] and [67]). 
9          Even if there had been any breach of natural justice, it did not cause prejudice to the respondent. If the adjudicator had invited submissions from the parties, he would likely have found that the applicable standard of persuasion was that of a prima facie case. If the adjudicator had applied this lower standard of persuasion, it still would have made no difference to his decision because the overall tenor of the adjudication determination suggested that he saw no evidential basis for the respondent’s claimed entitlement to a set-off whatsoever (at [69] to [71]).
 
 This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
