

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


24 October 2018


Case summary



Douglas Foo Peow Yong v ERC Prime II Pte Ltd and another appeal and
other matters [2018] SGCA 67

Civil Appeal Nos 196 of 2017 and 55 of 2018 and Summonses No 39, 83, 86
and 91 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):



Outcome: CoA allowed the winding up of ERC Prime II Pte Ltd and
Gryphon Real Estate Investment Corporation Pte Ltd on the basis that the
applicants had justifiably lost confidence in the management of these
companies.


The material facts


1 Sometime in 2009 or 2010, Ong Siew Kwee (“Andy Ong”) and Douglas Foo Peow
Yong (“Foo”) entered into two joint ventures, namely the Big Hotel project
and the Bugis Cube project.


2 In respect of the Big Hotel project, ERC Unicampus Pte Ltd (“ERCU”) was
incorporated to acquire and hold the project. ERC Prime II Pte Ltd (“ERCP
II”), through which Foo made his investment in the project, was a
shareholder of ERCU whose other shareholders were special purpose vehicles
set up by Andy Ong and his associates. In November 2010, ERCU exercised the
option to purchase the Big Hotel property for $103m, and subsequently in
November 2015 sold the property for $203m. By the time of the application
below, most of the investment returns had been distributed to ERCP II and
in turn to ERCP II’s shareholders, except for certain disputed sums. As of
13 April 2017, ERCP II’s directors were Ong Han Boon (“Ong HB”) and Stephen
Tan Fei Wen (“Stephen Tan”). Foo held 19.8% of ERCP II’s issued share
capital.


3 In respect of the Bugis Cube project, Griffin Real Estate Investment
Holdings Pte Ltd (“GREIH”) was incorporated to acquire and hold the
project. At all material times, GREIH had two shareholders: Sakae Holdings
Ltd and Gryphon Real Estate Investment Corporation Pte Ltd (“GREIC”). In
March 2010, GREIH purchased the Bugis Cube property for around $46m. In
2012, GREIH sold all of the units in five out of six floors of the property
for $142.8m. However, GREIH had not yet distributed to its shareholders the
proceeds from the partial sale of the property. The sixth floor of the
property, valued at $15m, also remained unsold. As of 13 April 2017,
GREIC’s directors were Ong HB and Stephen Tan. Yap Chew Loong (“Yap”) held
around 3.19% of GREIC’s issued share capital.


4 In

Sakae Holdings Ltd v Gryphon Real Estate Investment Corp Pte Ltd and
others (Foo Peow Yong Douglas, third party) and another suit

[2017] SGHC 73 (“Sakae (HC)”), the High Court found that Andy Ong
and Ong HB had, as directors of GREIH, engaged in oppressive conduct
against Sakae. Consequently, GREIH was ordered to be wound up. This was
upheld by the Court of Appeal in

Ho Yew Kong v Sakae Holdings Ltd and other appeals and other matters

[2018] 2 SLR 333 (“Sakae (CA)”). Accordingly, GREIH was presently in the
control of court appointed liquidators.


5 It also transpired that Ong HB, who sat on the boards of both GREIC and
ERCP II until August 2018, had been disqualified from holding any
directorship since 13 March 2017. Ong HB claimed that he had only found out
about his disqualification on or about 1 August 2018. A few days before the
appeal hearing, Chia Puay Khiang (“Chia”) was appointed a co director of
both ERCP II and GREIC by directors’ resolutions to which Stephen Tan was
the sole signatory.


6 In Civil Appeal No 196 of 2017 (“CA 196”), Foo appealed against the
decision of the High Court to refuse an application to wind up ERCP II. In
the appeal, Foo argued that ERCP II should be wound up under s 254(1)(    f) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (“the Act”) on the
basis of directorial misfeasance, and/or under s 254(1)(i) on just
and equitable grounds.


7 In Civil Appeal No 55 of 2018 (“CA 55”), Yap appealed against the
decision of the High Court to refuse an application to wind up GREIC. Yap
argued on appeal that GREIC should be wound up under s 254(1)(i)
of the Act as the purpose for the incorporation of the company had been
fulfilled, and/or that he had justifiably lost confidence in the management
of GREIC.


8 Several applications were also filed by the parties for the admission of
additional evidence in the appeals. This included, amongst other things,
evidence relating to criminal charges brought against Andy Ong and Ong HB
in August 2018.


Decision on appeal


9 CA 196 and CA 55 were both allowed on the basis that the applicants had
respectively established a justifiable loss of confidence in the management
of ERCP II and GREIC. Applications to admit additional evidence in the
appeals were dismissed save in relation to the criminal charges brought
against Andy Ong and Ong HB in August 2018, and to Chia’s appointment and
role in the companies.


Reasons for the judgment 


10 As a matter of law, it was undisputed that one situation in which the
just and equitable ground for the winding up of a company contained in s
254(1)(i) of the Act would be satisfied was “where minority
members have been oppressed or treated unfairly by controlling members and
have justifiably lost confidence in the management of the company” (at [    48]). Further, as a general rule, allegations made to
ground a claim of loss of confidence must be proved before an order to wind
up under s 254(1)(i) of the Act would be made (at [    49]).


11 In relation to ERCP II, at least one of the allegations relating to Ong
HB’s conduct in his capacity as a director of the company had been
established (at [50]). This allegation concerned a share
option purportedly granted by ERCU to ERC Holdings, pursuant to which a
significant number of shares was in fact issued by ERCU to ERC Holdings.
This necessarily and substantially diluted ERCP II’s shareholding in ERCU.
Events surrounding this share option betrayed a serious and obvious lack of
probity on the part of Ong HB in his conduct as a director of ERCP II (at [    51]). Such lack of probity sufficed to justify Foo’s loss
of confidence in Ong HB’s management of ERCP II (at [54]).


12 Foo could not rely on the findings against Andy Ong and Ong HB in    Sakae (HC) and Sakae (CA) as it was inappropriate to rely
on the alleged propensity of a director to act in a given way based on how
he had acted in another situation, in the context of CA 196 which involved
a different set of companies and a different business venture as that
implicated in the two judgments (at [55]).


13 There was no merit to ERCP II’s argument that the allegations made
against Andy Ong and Ong HB were res judicata. The two decisions
concerned involved different inquiries (at [56]).


14 Loss of confidence in Ong HB’s conduct as ERCP II’s director remained
relevant even though Stephen Tan and Chia had taken over as the directors
of ERCP II. Both Stephen Tan and Chia were closely associated with Ong HB
and Andy Ong. Moreover, the absence of a disclosure or disclaimer of Chia’s
association with Ong HB in her affidavit announcing her appointment as a
co-director of ERCP II was deeply troubling (at [57]). The
circumstances under which Stephen Tan purported to appoint Chia as a
co-director of ERCP II also buttressed the finding that there was a
justifiable loss of confidence on Foo’s part in the present directors of
ERCP II (at [58]).


15 There was no reason to exercise the court’s discretion to decline to
wind up ERCP II. Amongst other things, the High Court omitted to consider
the prejudice that a delay in the independent investigation of ERCP II’s
past affairs might have on any potential claim against its previous
management for breach of fiduciary duty and/or other causes of action,
especially in the light of the possible operation of the time bar (at [    61]).


16 In relation to GREIC, there had been a justifiable loss of confidence on
Yap’s part in the management of GREIC by its directors (at [    64]). GREIC incurred loans from another company related to
Andy Ong in order to pay for a co-defendant’s legal costs incurred in
connection with the disputes in Sakae (HC) and Sakae (CA)
, even though there was no apparent basis for GREIC to have made such
payment (at [65] and [67]). GREIC’s
directors also caused GREIC to refrain from collecting on an
uncontroversial debt due from GREIH to GREIC, which was clearly prejudicial
to the interests of GREIC’s shareholders (at [69]).


17 Furthermore, the adverse findings against Ong HB in Sakae (HC)
and Sakae (CA) should be recognised as one reason for the loss of
confidence in the directors of GREIC, even though the two judgments
related, strictly speaking, to GREIH. This was because there was a
sufficient nexus between GREIC and the serious and fundamental deficiencies
identified in Sakae (HC) and Sakae (CA) in relation to
the conduct of Andy Ong and Ong HB in their capacity as directors of GREIH
(at [70] and [71]).


18 For analogous reasons, the criminal charges brought against Andy Ong and
Ong HB in August 2018 in relation to their conduct vis-à-vis GREIH
were also relevant to the question of loss of confidence, and in fact
contributed to a justifiable loss of confidence in the management of GREIC
by Andy Ong, Ong HB, and their associates (at [72]).


19 There was no reason to decline an order for the winding up of GREIC on
discretionary grounds. In fact, two points lean strongly in favour of a
winding up order. First, more than half of the shareholders of GREIC in
number and in shareholding appeared to support the winding up application.
Second, given that the court in Sakae (CA) upheld the High Court’s
decision to wind up GREIH largely on the basis of misdeeds by Andy Ong and
Ong HB in relation to that company, it was not proper that the same
individuals whose conduct vis-à-vis GREIH was being scrutinised be
allowed to influence the liquidators of GREIH through their proxies
appointed as directors of GREIC (at [76]).






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


