

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


3 October 2018


Case summary


Zainal bin Hamad v Public Prosecutor 
[2018] SGCA 62



Criminal Appeals Nos 48 and 49 of 2017


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):



Outcome: CoA upholds death penalty for two accused persons for
drug trafficking; gives guidance to Prosecution and Defence for cases
potentially involving presumptions in ss 17 & 18 of the Misuse of Drugs
Act


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· The presumption under s 17 of the MDA cannot run together with the
presumption under either s 18(1) or s 18(2) of the MDA (at    [38] and [45]–[47]).


· The presumption under s 17 of the MDA can only be invoked if both the
fact of physical possession and the fact of knowledge have been proved (at    [49]–[51]).


· In future cases where the presumptions under ss 17 and 18 of the MDA are
potentially applicable, it is incumbent on the Prosecution to state clearly
which presumption(s) it relies on as its primary case when advancing its
case in the trial court and on appeal (at [52]–[53]).


 


Background to the appeal


1 These were appeals by Zainal bin Hamad (“Zainal”) and Rahmat bin Karimon
(“Rahmat”) against their respective convictions on one charge of
trafficking in not less than 53.64g of diamorphine.


Facts


2 On 27 May 2015, Rahmat delivered a green bag to Zainal and collected a
sum of $8,000 from Zainal in return. When Rahmat left, Zainal moved the
green bag to a location in a warehouse behind some pallets where it could
not readily be seen. Zainal was arrested at the warehouse and the green bag
was found to contain not less than 53.64g of diamorphine. Rahmat was
arrested at the checkpoint with the sum of $8,000.


3 Zainal and Rahmat were jointly tried in the High Court, each on one
charge of trafficking in not less than 53.64g of diamorphine. Zainal’s case
was that he had expected Rahmat to deliver 20 cartons of cigarettes and
thus paid the sum of $8,000 for those cigarettes. However, he knew that the
green bag could not physically contain the 20 cartons of cigarettes, and
had thus placed it behind the pallets so that it could be retrieved and
returned to Rahmat when the latter returned. Rahmat’s case was that he
believed that he was transporting medicines. The trial judge (“the Judge”)
convicted both Zainal and Rahmat and imposed the mandatory sentence of
death on both as no certificate of substantive assistance was provided.







 


Decision on appeal


4 The Court of Appeal dismissed both Zainal’s and Rahmat’s appeals (at    [8] and [36]).


5 Zainal’s appeal was advanced on the basis that he did not have possession
of the drugs, and in the alternative, he had rebutted the presumption under
s 18(2) of the MDA that he knew the nature of the drugs (at    [8]).


6 The court rejected Zainal’s submissions in relation to possession. By
taking control of the green bag without taking any steps to inspect it,
Zainal was taken to be in possession not only of the bag but also its
contents. It was then incumbent on him to adduce evidence to raise a
reasonable doubt and to show that he reasonably ought not be taken to be in
possession of the contents of the bag. However, his case was in essence a
bare denial since he claimed that he did not know or care what was in the
green bag and he paid the money for uncustomed cigarettes. This was not
sufficient to raise even a reasonable doubt especially since his account
did not sit well with his own statements to the investigators and the
objective facts (at [9]–[19]). The court observed that it
would also have been open to the Prosecution to rely on the presumption of
possession by virtue of s 18(1)(a) of the MDA, which was not
rebutted (at [21]–[22]).


7 For the same reasons, the court was also satisfied that Zainal had not
displaced the presumption under s 18(2) of the MDA that he knew the nature
of the drugs, and in any event, he would have been proved to have had
knowledge of the nature of the drugs even if the presumption did not apply
(at [23]–[26]).


8 No arguments were raised on appeal with respect to the question of
whether Zainal possessed the drugs for the purpose of trafficking. However,
the court was satisfied that the presumption of trafficking under s 17(    c) of the MDA applied since Zainal was proved to be in possession
of the drugs and had knowledge of the nature of the drugs, and nothing had
been advanced to rebut this presumption. In any event, Zainal would have
been proved to have possessed the drugs for the purpose of trafficking
given the quantity of the drugs involved and the fact that he had
previously been in the business of selling diamorphine (at    [27]–[29]).


9 Rahmat’s appeal was advanced on the basis that he had rebutted the
presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the MDA. The court also dismissed
his appeal. Rahmat’s explanation that he had delivered medicines for one
“Kanna” in exchange for an interest-free loan was incredible, given that
Kanna ran an illegal moneylending business and did not have a deep history
of close friendship with Rahmat. Rahmat’s explanation also contradicted his
statements to the police and was further inconsistent with how he had
delivered the green bag and passed the sum of $8,000 to his wife to hide in
her underclothes. It was also inconceivable that anyone would pay $8,000
for the delivery of one bag of medicines (at [33]–[36]).


Guidance for the Prosecution and Defence for future cases


10 The court established the following propositions with respect to the
presumptions under ss 17 (of trafficking), 18(1) (of possession) and 18(2)
(of knowledge) of the MDA:


(a) The presumptions under ss 17 and 18(1) could not run together because
the former only applied where possession was proved, whereas if the latter
provision was invoked, its effect was to give rise to a presumption (and
not proof) of the fact of possession (at [38]).


(b) The presumptions under ss 17 and 18(2) also could not run together. The
statutory scheme of the MDA made clear that s 18(2) was to operate as an
ancillary provision to s 18(1), in the sense that where an accused was in
physical control of an object, the Prosecution may rely on s 18 as a whole
to invoke a presumption of possession and also of knowledge of what it was
that the accused was in possession of. Section 18 as a whole thus dealt
with the issue of knowing possession. Section 17 on the other hand was a
distinct provision concerned with the question of the purpose for which the
accused has possession of the item in question (at    [39]–[47]).


(c) The presumption under s 17 of the MDA could only be invoked if both the
fact of physical possession of the drugs and the fact of knowledge of what
was being possessed had been proved. This was because the presumption of
trafficking could be invoked once the premise of s 17 was proved; no other
elements of the offence needed to be proved. It would follow from this that
the premise in s 17 extended to both the fact of physical possession and
the element of knowledge (at [49]–[51]).


11 Given these propositions, the court noted that in future cases such as
this, it would be incumbent on the Prosecution to make clear which
presumption(s) it relied on when advancing its case in the trial court and
on appeal. This would assist the trial and appeal courts in assessing
whether the Prosecution’s case was made out. More fundamentally, it would
give the accused a fair chance of knowing the case that was advanced
against him and what evidence he had to adduce (and to what standard of
proof) in order to meet that case. It would not be sufficient for the
Prosecution to simply state, for instance, that the elements of possession
of the drugs, knowledge of the nature of the drugs and possession for the
purpose of trafficking have either been proved or presumed without making
clear the precise nature of the primary case that was being put against the
accused (at [52]–[53]).


12 In the present case, the court did not receive such assistance from the
Prosecution. Ultimately, it made no difference to the outcome in this case
as the court agreed with the Judge that all three elements of the offence
in relation to Zainal were proved on the evidence before the court and that
the presumptions under ss 17 and 18 could also apply whether the
Prosecution relied on the presumptions under either ss 17 or 18 of the MDA.
However, it would still be important in future cases for the Prosecution to
state clearly which presumption(s) it relied on as its primary case as it
could potentially be prejudicial to the accused given a different set of
facts (at [53]–[55]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.


