
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE14 April 2023Case summaryKiri Industries Ltd v DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd and another appeal [2023] SGCA(I) 3--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses appeal by Kiri Industries Ltd against the dismissal of its counterclaim against DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Ltd for breach of preferred supplier clause.Pertinent and significant points of the court’s judgment •  DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”) had not acted in breach of cl 7.2 of a share subscription and shareholders’ agreement vis-à-vis its dealings with Kiri Industries Ltd (“Kiri”). Clause 7.2 provided for Kiri’s status as DyStar’s preferred supplier. •  The weight of the evidence contradicted Kiri's case that DyStar had made a decision by December 2012 to cut Kiri off as a preferred supplier in breach of cl 7.2. •  The SICC correctly found that DyStar would have been commercially justified in concluding in 2013 that Kiri was an unreliable supplier. •  DyStar's preference of another supplier, Lonsen Kiri Chemical Industries Ltd, over Kiri did not constitute a breach of cl 7.2 as that had been a result of Kiri's supply reliability issues and was a decision arrived at with regard to DyStar's own commercial interests. Background1 This case was part of the long-running litigation that arose from a joint venture that Kiri Industries Ltd (“Kiri”) initiated to acquire the business of the DyStar Group. In 2010, as part of the joint venture, Kiri entered into a share subscription and shareholders agreement (“the SSSA”) with DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”), which was the vehicle used to acquire the assets of the DyStar Group. Clause 7.2 of the SSSA provided that, upon completion of the acquisition, DyStar was to procure that Kiri be a preferred supplier of goods and services in connection with the purchase of textile chemicals and dyes by businesses within the DyStar Group. 2 In previous litigation that concluded in 2018, Kiri alleged that its joint venture partner/majority shareholder in DyStar, Senda International Capital Ltd (“Senda”) had engaged in oppressive conduct by directing DyStar’s management to reduce DyStar’s purchases of Kiri’s products, which ran contrary to Kiri’s legitimate expectation that it would be a preferred supplier as provided for by cl 7.2 of the SSSA. The Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) rejected that particular allegation of minority oppression as it found there was insufficient evidence to support a finding that the decline in Kiri’s sales was due to Senda. 3 In 2020, DyStar commenced fresh claims against Kiri for breach of specific clauses of the SSSA. Kiri then responded with a counterclaim against DyStar for breach of cl 7.2 of the SSSA, which was in part based on the allegations relating to Kiri’s preferred supplier status that had previously been raised. DyStar’s claim was settled out of court and only Kiri’s counterclaim proceeded to trial in the SICC. 4 Kiri pleaded that cl 7.2 required DyStar to: (a) procure that the DyStar Group purchase goods and services in connection with textile chemicals and dyes from Kiri “in preference to any other suppliers”; and (b) where the DyStar Group intended to purchase such goods and services, procure that the DyStar Group gave Kiri “an opportunity to quote and/or tender for the provision of such goods and services in priority to any other suppliers”. 5 Kiri’s case in the SICC was that DyStar had acted in breach of cl 7.2 by ceasing and/or reducing its purchases of raw materials and intermediates as well as finished dyes from Kiri from 2012 onwards. 6 DyStar defended the counterclaim on the basis that it ought to be dismissed on legal grounds, namely: (a) it was barred by issue estoppel; (b) it constituted an abuse of process under the extended doctrine of res judicata; and (c) cl 7.2 was too uncertain to be enforceable. In the alternative, DyStar argued that it had ceased or reduced its  purchases of Kiri’s products for genuine commercial reasons and therefore its conduct did not constitute a breach of cl 7.2. It was undisputed that from 2012 onwards, DyStar did so cease and/or reduce its purchases of Kiri’s products. The SICC’s decision and the appeal 7 The Judge in the SICC rejected all of DyStar’s preliminary legal objections to Kiri’s counterclaim. The Judge held that cl 7.2 gave rise to an enforceable obligation and it denoted a minimum obligation on DyStar’s part to afford Kiri with reasonable opportunity to quote prices or tender for the supply of products to DyStar. Further, where everything else was equal (in terms of quality, price and reliability), DyStar should prefer Kiri to other suppliers. 8 In respect of Kiri’s counterclaim relating to finished dyes, the Judg found that DyStar had not acted in breach of cl 7.2 because its decision to reduce and/or cease purchases of finished dyes from Kiri had been a commercial one which was made after it afforded Kiri a reasonable opportunity to compete with DyStar’s other suppliers. The Judge noted that DyStar had, despite harbouring doubts about Kiri’s supply reliability as a result of earlier events, placed an order for 503mt of finished dyes (“the 503mt Order”) between December 2012 and January 2013, and it was Kiri’s unsatisfactory handling of the 503mt Order that prompted DyStar to regard Kiri as an unreliable supplier. 9 Both Kiri and DyStar appealed against the Judge’s decision. Kiri appealed against the Judge’s decision to dismiss its counterclaim relating to finished dyes, while DyStar appealed against the Judge’s rejection of the preliminary legal objections it had raised.Kiri’s appeal 10 Kiri’s case in the appeal, as had been its case below, was that DyStar had decided by December 2012 to cut it off as a preferred supplier of finished dyes and to prefer another of DyStar’s suppliers, Lonsen Kiri Chemical Industries Ltd (“LSK”), over Kiri. This decision was made before the 503mt Order was placed and before the alleged issues of unreliability associated with Kiri’s handling of the 503mt Order had arisen, and it was a result of an understanding which DyStar said existed between the relevant parties to build up LSK as a supplier of dyes to DyStar (“the LSK Strategy”). Kiri denied being a party to the LSK Strategy. In the alternative, Kiri also argued that DyStar would not have been justified in concluding from its handling of the 503mt Order that it was an unreliable supplier. Kiri however did not challenge the Judge’s interpretation of cl 7.2 and agreed that DyStar was entitled to have regard to its own commercial interests in deciding whether Kiri was to be afforded preferred supplier status under cl 7.2: at [25]-[26] and [30]. 11 The Court of Appeal examined the evidence relating to the supply reliability issues which DyStar alleged Kiri had experienced between January and September 2012. The Court of Appeal noted that, up until October 2012, there was still no improvement in Kiri’s supply situation and there remained a substantial backlog of unfulfilled orders. The Court of Appeal rejected Kiri’s contention that its supply reliability issues had simply been the result of problems with a spray dryer at its manufacturing plant and noted that the evidence showed that Kiri’s financial difficulties in 2012 had contributed to those supply reliability issues: at [43]-[46]. 12 The Court of Appeal also examined the evidence relating to the circumstances in which DyStar agreed to place the 503mt Order between December 2012 and January 2013. This had taken place after meetings initiated by Kiri where Kiri sought DyStar’s support for further orders: at [47]. 13 The Court of Appeal observed that the weight of the evidence contradicted Kiri’s case that DyStar had already made a decision by December 2012 to cut off Kiri as a preferred supplier. The fact that DyStar placed the 503mt Order in December 2012 showed that no decision had been made then as to whether Kiri was to be cut off as a preferred supplier. Further, the fact that the 503mt Order had been placed by DyStar in spite of the supply reliability issues it had experienced earlier showed that no such decision had been made by or in December 2012: at [48]. 14 The Court of Appeal also agreed with the Judge’s finding that DyStar would have been commercially justified in concluding from Kiri’s handling of the 503mt Order that Kiri was an unreliable supplier. The Court of Appeal examined the evidence relating to Kiri’s handling of the 503mt Order. It noted that DyStar’s perceptions of Kiri in this regard had to be analysed in the context of the entire history of the parties’ supply relationship, which included Kiri’s supply reliability issues in 2012. The Court of Appeal agreed that Kiri’s requests for price revisions to pending orders and/or further orders in exchange for delivering on unfulfilled orders under the 503mt Order showed that Kiri had, in respect of the 503mt Order, acted in the same way it did between January and September 2012 when it had been plagued by supply reliability issues. All that would have influenced how DyStar assessed Kiri’s handling of the 503mt Order and led DyStar to conclude in June 2013 that Kiri was an unreliable supplier, especially given the significant doubts DyStar already harboured about Kiri’s reliability: at [58]-[59]. 15 The Court of Appeal noted that the LSK Strategy had been cited by DyStar in its defence to Kiri’s counterclaim as one of the reasons why it ceased and/or reduced purchases of Kiri’s finished dyes. Further, it was undisputed that LSK did come to be preferred over Kiri as a supplier of finished dyes from 2012 onwards. The Court of Appeal therefore considered it necessary to also consider why DyStar preferred LSK to Kiri from 2012 onwards, and whether that preference was commercially justified. The Court of Appeal examined the relevant evidence and concluded that DyStar had increased its purchases with LSK from 2012 onwards because of Kiri’s supply reliability issues in 2012 and DyStar’s subsequent decision in 2013 to regard Kiri as an unreliable supplier. As this was done to mitigate the disruptions of DyStar’s operations caused by Kiri’s non-performance, it was undertaken with regard to DyStar’s own commercial interests, and so DyStar’s preference for LSK over Kiri did not constitute a breach of cl 7.2: at [32] and [67]-[71]. 16 The Court of Appeal therefore dismissed Kiri’s appeal: at [76]. DyStar’s appeal 17 With the dismissal of Kiri’s appeal, Kiri’s counterclaim failed on the merits and so the preliminary legal objections raised by DyStar were rendered moot and did not arise for the Court of Appeal’s decision. The Court of Appeal however made the following brief observations: at [77]: (a) First, if DyStar’s appeal had arisen for decision, the Court of Appeal would have agreed with Kiri that its counterclaim was not barred by issue estoppel. This was because the issue of breach of cl 7.2 was not fundamental to Kiri’s allegation of oppression arising from the loss of its preferred supplier status as put forward in the earlier litigation. The only issue that had to be decided in the earlier litigation was whether DyStar’s reduction in purchases from Kiri had been attributable to Senda, and the SICC only made a determination on that issue: at [78]-[79].(b) Secondly, the Court of Appeal would not have been persuaded by DyStar’s arguments that the Judge had erred in his evaluative decision of whether Kiri’s counterclaim was barred by the extended doctrine of abuse of process, because the Judge had taken into account the relevant facts in considering the issue: at [81]-[82].(c) Finally, the Court of Appeal would also have rejected DyStar’s argument that cl 7.2 of the SSSA was too uncertain to be enforceable. This was because, where parties have entered into what they believed to be a binding agreement, the court would endeavour to give effect to it rather than strike it down and so a court would strive to afford cl 7.2 a commercially sensible interpretation that upheld it: at [83]. Conclusion18 For the reasons above, the Court of Appeal dismissed both Kiri’s and DyStar’s appeals against the SICC’s decision. Given the circumstances of the case, the Court of Appeal also ordered Kiri and DyStar to bear their own costs for both the appeals: at [76], [84]-[85]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. 
