
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
5 September 2018
Case summary
NTUC Foodfare Co-operative Ltd v SIA Engineering Co Ltd and another
Civil Appeal No 207 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven Chong):
Outcome: CoA awards costs of appeal and proceedings below to appellant after considering offer to settle filed by respondents and Calderbank offer filed by appellant
1          On 19 July 2018, the Court of Appeal allowed Civil Appeal No 207 of 2017 in part and directed the parties to file written submissions on the costs for the proceedings below and the appeal, unless the parties came to an agree309683ment on costs.
2          The present judgment dealt with the costs of the appeal and the proceedings below.
Facts
3          On 12 May 2017, before the trial below began, the respondents served an offer to settle (“OTS”) on the appellant (“NTUC Foodfare”) proposing to pay the latter $225,000 in settlement of the dispute. The OTS stated that there would be no order as to costs.
4          NTUC Foodfare did not accept the OTS. However, on 16 April 2018, after the trial, but before the hearing of the appeal, NTUC Foodfare wrote a letter to the respondents stating that it was prepared to accept a total sum of $176,176.85 (all in) in settlement of the dispute (“the Calderbank Offer”). The respondents did not accept the Calderbank Offer.
5          On 19 July 2018, the Court of Appeal allowed the appeal in part, holding that the respondents were liable to NTUC Foodfare in the sum of $176,176.85 and interest at 5.33% per annum on the said sum from the date of the writ to the date of the judgment.         
Decision
6          Order 22A r 9(3) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) set out a general rule on costs that would apply here if two conditions were satisfied (at [15]). The first condition was that the OTS was not withdrawn and had not expired before the disposal of the claim (the “Validity Requirement”). The second condition was that the judgment was not more favourable than the terms of the OTS (the “Favourability Requirement”). 
7          In relation to the Validity Requirement, the Court of Appeal held that this requirement was fulfilled. The OTS remained open for acceptance until 19 July 2018, when the Court of Appeal finally disposed of the claim (at [17]).  
8          In relation to the Favourability Requirement, the Court of Appeal held that where a defendant made an OTS proposing to pay the plaintiff a sum of money in settlement of the dispute, and the OTS did not make separate provision for the plaintiff to be paid its costs (up to the date of the OTS), the court should account for such costs in determining whether the Favourability Requirement was satisfied (at [23]). Here, once NTUC Foodfare’s costs up to the date of the OTS were accounted for, the OTS was less favourable than the judgment. Therefore, the Favourability Requirement was not satisfied. It followed that the rule on costs under O 22A r 9(3) of the Rules of Court was not engaged (at [30]).
9          The court rejected NTUC Foodfare’s argument that it should be awarded costs on an indemnity basis from the date of the Calderbank Offer. The costs incurred by NTUC Foodfare after it served the Calderbank Offer did not arise solely because the respondents failed to accept that offer, but were also attributable to NTUC Foodfare’s failure to accept the OTS (at [32]). 
10        In the result, the court awarded NTUC Foodfare costs of the appeal fixed at $30,000 inclusive of disbursements and 60% of its costs below, assessed on a standard basis, to be taxed on the District Court scale if not agreed (at [34]). 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
