
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
3 September 2018
Case summary
Neo Ah Luan v Public Prosecutor [2018] SGHC 188
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9307 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outcome: High Court clarifies meaning of practising and doing acts as a medical practitioner under s 13 Medical Registration Act, sets sentencing framework for unauthorised persons acting as medical practitioners.
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
1          The appellant pleaded guilty before a District Judge to two charges of practising medicine as an unauthorised person in contravention of s 13 of the Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (“the MRA”), which offence is punishable under s 17(1)(e) of the MRA. The District Judge imposed sentences of two months’ imprisonment for each charge, with both sentences to run concurrently. The appellant appealed against the sentences.
Facts
2          The appellant, who was not a qualified medical practitioner, began providing beauty services from her home in 2012. These beauty services involved the appellant injecting her clients’ skin with a dermal filler product called Promoitalia Skinfill. On several occasions from 2012 to 13 March 2013, the appellant performed such dermal filler injections on one of her clients, Ms Guan Na. In January 2014, the appellant performed a dermal filler injection on another client, Ms Huang Jindi. The procedures which the appellant performed on Ms Guan and Ms Huang respectively formed the subject matter of the first and second charges against the appellant under s 13 read with s 17(1)(e) of the MRA.
3          In the proceedings below, the Prosecution tendered a report by Dr Rama Sethuraman of the HSA’s Medical Devices Branch. Dr Sethuraman found that the Promoitalia Skinfill products were not registered as medical devices with the Health Sciences Authority (“HSA”) as required under the Health Products Act (Cap 122D, 2008 Rev Ed). He also noted that the use of unregistered dermal fillers could cause complications including bruising, swelling, pain, infections, and in rare cases, visual loss or stroke. 
Decision on appeal
Whether the charges were made out
4          Although the appellant had pleaded guilty to the charges, the High Court sought submissions from the parties on whether the charges of “practising as a medical practitioner” were made out, given that the appellant had never represented to her clients that she was a medical practitioner. The key issue was what the terms “practise as a medical practitioner” and “do any act as a medical practitioner” in s 13(a) of the MRA meant. They could mean either (a) practising or doing acts while holding oneself out as a medical practitioner; or (b) practising or doing acts which should only be done by medical practitioners (at [22]–[28]). 
5          The court preferred the latter interpretation, as it was most consistent with the legislative purposes underlying the MRA. Section 2A of the MRA stated that the object of the statute was to protect the health and safety of the public through, among other things, upholding standards of practice within the medical profession and maintaining public confidence in the medical profession. It would better comport with these aims to interpret s 13(a) of the MRA as prohibiting those not qualified as medical practitioners from doing acts which should only be done by qualified medical practitioners, regardless of whether they also held out as qualified medical practitioners (at [30]–[35]). The Parliamentary debates also confirmed that the legislative intent was to address the illegal performance of treatments which should only be performed by qualified medical practitioners, regardless of whether those who performed such illegal treatments held themselves out as medically qualified (at [36]–[38]). 
6          The court thus held that the charges were made out against the appellant. Even though she had never held herself out as a medical practitioner, she had done acts which should only be performed by medical practitioners. This was clear from guidelines issued by the Singapore Medical Council which stated that filler injections were considered minimally invasive procedures which should only be performed by doctors (at [43]). Thus, there was no reason to disturb the appellant’s conviction upon her plea of guilt, save that the second charge should be amended to refer to the appellant “doing an act as a medical practitioner” instead of “practising” as such. This was because “practising” implied a sustained course of conduct, whereas the appellant had only performed a single filler injection on Ms Huang (at [44]).
The appropriate sentence    
7          The court established the following four-step sentencing framework for offences under s 17 of the MRA:

(a) The first step was to identify, on a low-medium-high scale, the level of harm occasioned by the offence and the offender’s level of culpability. 
 


 
(i) The concept of harm included both actual and potential bodily harm, as well as emotional or psychological harm, or the undermining of public confidence in the medical profession (at [68]). The concept of harm should be sensible and neither unduly constrained nor unduly extensive (at [69]). 


(ii) Culpability would depend on factors including the offender’s state of mind, the extent of profits gained from the unauthorised acts, the duration of the offending behaviour, having regard to the circumstances underlying the continuance of the offending conduct, whether the offender held out as a medical practitioner, the sophistication involved in the offence, the extent of premeditation or planning involved, and the extent to which the offender may have abused any position of trust (at [74(a)(ii)]).



(b) The second step was to identify the indicative sentencing range according to a harm-culpability matrix (at [74(b)]).


(c) The third step was to adjust the starting point according to offender-specific aggravating and mitigating factors. Aggravating factors included offences taken into consideration for sentencing purposes, relevant antecedents and an evident lack of remorse. Mitigating factors included a plea of guilt and cooperation with the authorities (at [74(c)]).


(d) The fourth step was to make further adjustments, where necessary, to take into account the totality principle, particularly where an offender has been punished with three or more sentences of imprisonment (at [74(d)]).

8          Applying this framework to the facts, the court held that the appellant’s offences had occasioned a medium level of harm. Although no actual harm was suffered, there was a significant prospect of actual harm occurring because the dermal filler injections were invasive procedures which could cause complications, and were carried out in a non-sterile environment (at [78]). The appellant’s culpability was also of a medium level, given that she had shown a lack of consideration for her client’s health and safety, and had run a fairly large-scale operation from her home (at [82]–[84]). A medium level of harm and medium level of culpability corresponded to a starting point of about two months’ imprisonment on the harm-culpability matrix (at [85]). The court gave mitigating weight to the appellant’s plea of guilt and cooperation with the authorities, and found that a sentence of six weeks’ imprisonment for each charge was appropriate (at [86]). The court ordered the sentences on both charges to run concurrently, yielding a total sentence of six weeks’ imprisonment for both charges (at [87]). Thus, the appeal was allowed to this extent.
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
