

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


29 August 2018


Case summary


BML v Comptroller of Income Tax 
[2018] SGCA 53


Civil Appeal No 119 of 2017



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JA):



Outcome: CoA affirmed Comptroller’s decision to deny interest
deduction to taxpayer who made bond issue to shareholders following capital
reduction.


 


The material facts


1 The present appeal concerned the issue of deductibility of interest paid
on a bond issued by a taxpayer (“the Taxpayer”) to its shareholders (“the
Shareholders”) in the course of a capital restructuring exercise. At the
material time, the Taxpayer owned and operated a mall. The Shareholders
each owned 50% of the Taxpayer’s issued share capital. In 2004, the
Taxpayer conducted a securitisation of the mall followed by a capital
restructuring exercise which was effected in two steps: (a) a capital
reduction exercise (“the Capital Reduction Exercise”) and (b) a bond issue
to the Shareholders (“the Shareholder Bonds”). In effect, this capital
restructuring exercise converted the Shareholders’ equity in the Taxpayer
into a debt investment.


2 Between 2005 and 2009, the Taxpayer paid interest of 7.1% per annum to
the Shareholders on the Shareholder Bonds, amounting to a total of
S$95,673,181 (“the Interest Expense”). The Taxpayer sought to deduct the
Interest Expense from its chargeable income in the years of assessment 2005
to 2009, relying on s 14(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act (Cap 134,
2014 Rev Ed) (“ITA”). The Comptroller of Income Tax (“CIT”) disallowed the
deductions, and the Taxpayer objected. The Income Tax Board of Review
(“ITBR”) and the High Court respectively upheld the CIT’s decision.


3 The Taxpayer appealed. Before the Court of Appeal, the issue was whether
the Shareholder Bonds constituted “capital employed in acquiring the
income” of the Taxpayer such that the Interest Expense incurred on them was
deductible under s 14(1)(a) of the ITA.


Decision on appeal


4 The Court of Appeal dismissed the Taxpayer’s appeal and held that the
Interest Expense was not deductible.


5 In order to satisfy s 14(1)(a) of the ITA, there must be a
direct link between the money borrowed and the income produced (at [    39]). This direct link test found support in at least
three Court of Appeal decisions and there was no indication of any desire
or need for it to be departed from (at [44]). The test is
also grounded in the statutory language of s 14(1)(a) and in
particular, the words “capital employed in acquiring the income” (at [    48]). In the Court’s judgment, although the test may apply
in different ways to different sets of facts, it is a test of general
application under s 14(1)(a) of the ITA and it also applied to the
present case (at [46]).


6 In applying the direct link test, a causal inquiry is necessary for the
satisfaction of the test (at [51]). This causal aspect of
the test is not incompatible with the scheme of the ITA (at [    52]).


7 It was not clear what the Taxpayer meant by its submission that
deductions should be allowed of interest paid on a loan that “represented”
its income-producing assets (at [57]). In any event, this
test of representation is not compatible with the language of s 14(1)(    a) which connotes an active nexus between the loan and the income
acquired (at [63]); is not compatible with the term “the
income” in s 14(1)(a) which connotes a clear nexus between the
capital and the particular source of income from which a deduction is
sought to be made (at [64]); and places undue reliance on
the balance sheet of the taxpayer (at [65]). It is also
not supported by the local or foreign case authorities cited by the
Taxpayer (at [80]).


8 Further, the Taxpayer’s submission that capital would be “employed in
acquiring the income” within the meaning of s 14(1)(a) if the
taxpayer’s income-producing asset were preserved or retained by such
capital was not made out on the evidence. To say that a loan retained or
preserved certain income-producing assets implies that there must have been
at least a material risk of the assets being sold, realised, or otherwise
taken away from the taxpayer if the loan was not taken out (at [    85]). On the evidence, it was clear that there was no
material risk that the Taxpayer’s income-producing assets would have been
taken away if the Shareholder Bonds had not been issued (at [    86]).


9 The Taxpayer’s appeal was therefore dismissed. Costs of $20,000 inclusive
of disbursements were ordered in favour of the CIT (at [    100]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


