

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


29 August 2018


Case summary



PT Bayan Resources TBK and another v BCBC Singapore Pte Ltd and another         [2018] SGCA(I) 6 

Civil Appeal No 154 of 2017



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):



Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against SICC’s finding that there
was a repudiatory breach of the joint venture deed, but remits matter to
SICC to determine whether the first respondent had the financial ability to
fund the joint venture company.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment




Seldon v Davidson 
    [1968] 1 WLR 1083 (“Seldon”) was wrongly decided insofar
    as it held that where a party admitted to having received a sum of
    money, there was prima facie an obligation to repay. The
    relevant question was not whether a party had admitted to receiving
    a sum of money, but whether it had admitted to incurring a debt (at            [141]–[144]).
    



    Where an issue was squarely and properly placed before the court,
    the court ought to decide it. Where the evidence was incomplete
    such that the court could not make a finding one way or the other,
    the question of fact raised was to be decided on the basis of who
    bore the burden of proof (at [170]).
    



Background




    This appeal arose out of a dispute between the appellants (“the
    Appellants”) and the respondents (“the Respondents”) over their
    joint venture to upgrade and sell the Appellants’ coal. The matter
    was heard by the Singapore International Commercial Court (“the
    Court”) in separate tranches, and this appeal concerned only the
    Court’s decision in the second tranche.
    


The material facts



    The Appellants were PT Bayan Resources TBK (“BR”) and Bayan
    International Pte Ltd (“BI”). BR owned a number of coal mining
    subsidiaries in Indonesia, including PT Bara Tabang (“Bara”) and PT
    Fajar Sakti Prima (“FSP”).
    



    The Respondents were BCBC Singapore Pte Ltd (“BCBCS”) and
    Binderless Coal Briquetting Company Pty Limited (“BCBC”). Both of
    them were indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of White Energy
    Company Ltd (“WEC”).
    



    In 2006, BCBC and BI entered into a joint venture deed (“the JV
    Deed”) for the construction and commissioning of a coal briquette
    processing plant in Indonesia (“the Tabang Plant”). Pursuant to a
    deed of novation executed in 2009, BCBCS and BR were substituted
    for BCBC and BI respectively as the parties to the JV Deed. In
    connection with the joint venture, the parties incorporated an
    Indonesian joint venture company, PT Kaltim Supacoal (“KSC”), with
    BCBCS holding 51% and BI, 49% of the issued shares.
    



    Friction between the parties started to develop by November 2007,
    when they realised that they had underestimated the costs of the
    Tabang Plant. To exacerbate matters, in October 2010, a piece of
    legislation which set the benchmark price for the sale of minerals
    and coal in Indonesia (“the HBA Price”) came into force.
    



    These developments led the parties and KSC to enter into a series
    of agreements, which included:
    




        A “Priority Loan Funding Agreement” (“the PLFA”) between KSC, BR
        and BCBCS. Under the PLFA, BCBCS was to advance a revolving working
        capital facility of up to US$20m (later increased to US$40m) to
        KSC; while BR was to provide KSC with a “Coal Advance”, which
        entailed BR supplying coal to KSC at the market price but requiring
        payment of only US$8 per tonne upon delivery.
        



        Coal supply agreements (“the 2010 CSAs”) between KSC and BR’s coal
        mining subsidiaries, Bara and FSP. Under the 2010 CSAs, Bara and
        FSP were to supply coal to KSC at the HBA Price. However, pursuant
        to the “Coal Advance” under the PLFA, KSC only had to pay US$8 per
        tonne upfront.
        




    Things came to a head in the last quarter of 2011. At a KSC board
    meeting in early November 2011 (“the November 2011 Board Meeting”),
    the Appellants indicated that they wanted to exit the joint
    venture, and that they were willing to sell their shares in KSC to
    the Respondents and WEC (collectively, “the WEC Parties”). The
    Appellants were happy for the WEC Parties to continue with the
    joint venture on their own, and while BR remained willing to supply
    coal to KSC, this would have to be on arms’ length terms and “at
    commercial rates”. On 7 November 2011, shortly after the November
    2011 Board Meeting, KSC requested for “a lot of coal” from Bara and
    FSP.
    



    On 9 November 2011, WEC made a public announcement on the
    Australian Stock Exchange to the effect that BR had formed the view
    that the joint venture might not be economically viable. On the
    same day, after WEC’s announcement, BR instructed Bara and FSP to
    stop supplying coal to KSC.
    



    Following the cessation of coal supply to KSC, a meeting between
    the parties was held on 17 November 2011 (“the 17 November 2011
    Meeting”). During the meeting, the Appellants reiterated their
    desire to exit the joint venture, and again raised the possibility
    of the WEC Parties buying out their share of the joint venture for
    US$45m, which was the amount that they had invested up to that
    point in time. The only contemporaneous notes of the meeting
    suggested that the understanding between the parties was that BR
    would not resume the supply of coal to KSC until the Appellants’
    shares in KSC were bought out (“the Buyout Condition”).
    



    On 6 December 2011, an extraordinary general meeting of KSC’s
    shareholders (“the 6 December 2011 EGM”) was held. At that meeting,
    the Appellants reiterated their intention to exit the joint
    venture, and intimated their desire to liquidate KSC unless their
    stake in KSC was bought out. They also denied having imposed the
    Buyout Condition, and maintained that BR would continue supplying
    coal to KSC at the HBA Price. It is undisputed that the meeting
    also touched on the possibility of putting the Tabang Plant into
    care and maintenance, although the parties were divided as to
    whether there was an agreement to do so. On 15 December 2011, the
    Tabang Plant was put into care and maintenance.
    



    On 27 December 2011, the Respondents commenced legal proceedings
    against the Appellants. Approximately two months later, on 21
    February 2012, BR wrote to BCBCS purporting to terminate the JV
    Deed. Among other things, BR alleged that BCBCS had breached the
    terms of the JV Deed by unilaterally causing KSC to exceed its
    budget by about US$7m (“the Excess Expenditure”), and to exceed the
    US$40m PLFA facility limit by extending a further loan of about
    US$6m to KSC (“the Excess Debt”). On 2 March 2012, BCBCS replied
    stating that BR’s purported termination constituted a wrongful
    repudiation of the JV Deed, which it accepted.
    


The issues on appeal



    There were four main issues on appeal, namely (at            [68]):
    




        whether BR was obliged to procure and/or ensure the supply of coal
        to KSC during the period from November 2011 to 2 March 2012 (“the
        Obligation Issue”);
        



        if BR was under such an obligation, whether BR breached that
        obligation, and if so, whether that breach constituted a
        repudiation of the JV Deed (“the Breach Issue”);
        



        whether BR repudiated the JV Deed by issuing the termination notice
        in its letter of 21 February 2012 (“the Repudiation Issue”); and
        



        if BR repudiated the JV Deed, whether such repudiation caused any
        loss to BCBCS, and if so, what was the period for which BCBCS was
        entitled to damages (“the Causation Issue”).
        



The decision on appeal


The Obligation Issue



    In respect of the Obligation Issue, the Court of Appeal (“the CoA”)
    rejected the Appellants’ argument that BR was not contractually
    obliged to procure and/or ensure the supply of coal to KSC under
    the JV Deed and/or the PLFA during the period from November 2011 to
    2 March 2012.
    

 




    The CoA first held that the “Business” defined in the JV Deed
    remained in operation during the aforesaid period despite the
    Tabang Plant having been put into care and maintenance, and thus,
    BR’s obligation under the JV Deed to procure the supply of coal
    “for the operation of the Business” continued to apply. In this
    regard, the CoA pointed out that cll 7.1(x) and 11 of the JV Deed
    undercut the Appellants’ contention that either party to the JV
    Deed could unilaterally bring about the cessation of KSC’s
    operations and business simply by refusing to provide funding (at            [74]–[77]).
    

 




    Second, the CoA rejected the Appellants’ argument that Art 7.1 of
    the PLFA did not impose a separate and free-standing obligation on
    BR to ensure that Bara and FSP supplied coal to KSC pursuant to the
    2010 CSAs. It noted that Art 7 of the PLFA refined BR’s coal supply
    obligation to include an obligation to ensure that KSC was liable
    to pay only US$8 per tonne upfront for the coal supplied. It was
    difficult to see how BR could have advanced coal to KSC at this
    stipulated upfront payment price without also simultaneously having
    an obligation to ensure the supply of coal to KSC (at            [78]–[80]).
    



    Third, the CoA found that BR’s coal supply obligation under the JV
    Deed and the PLFA was not affected by whether KSC could have paid
    Bara and FSP for the coal supplied under the 2010 CSAs. This was
    because cll 10.8 and 10.14 of the 2010 CSAs indicated that Bara’s
    and FSP’s coal supply obligations, and, in turn, BR’s obligation to
    ensure that Bara and FSP fulfilled those obligations, were
    independent of KSC’s payment obligation (at            [81]–[82]).
    



    Fourth, the CoA rejected the Appellants’ argument that Bara and FSP
    were not obliged to supply coal to KSC because the latter already
    had sufficient coal for testing the Tabang Plant. In this regard,
    the CoA upheld the Court’s finding that as at November 2011, the
    Tabang Plant was close to the stage of commissioning that required
    coal for testing and did not have sufficient coal in its stockpile
    for this purpose. The CoA agreed with the Court that the evidence
    of KSC’s site operations manager (“Mr Reilly”) on these matters was
    more probative than that of the Appellants’ expert witness (“Mr
    Alderman”), given that Mr Reilly was present at the site at the
    material time in November 2011 whereas Mr Alderman was not. The CoA
    also held that the Court had correctly ignored those parts of Mr
    Alderman’s report on the Tabang Plant which concerned the
    deficiencies in the plant’s design since those deficiencies were
    not in issue before the Court (at [83]–[97]).
    



    Fifth, the CoA rejected the Appellants’ contention that KSC’s
    request for “a lot of coal” on 7 November 2011 was too vague and
    open-ended to trigger Bara’s and FSP’s coal supply obligations
    under the 2010 CSAs. It pointed out that cl 3.9 of the 2010 CSAs
    did not require KSC to specify a particular quantity in its
    requests for coal for testing purposes (at [98]).
    


The Breach Issue



    With regard to the Breach Issue, the CoA held that there was no
    merit in the Appellants’ argument that BR was justified in
    instructing Bara and FSP to cease supplying coal to KSC on 9
    November 2011 due to an impasse as to the price of coal. It was
    clear from the documentary evidence that this instruction was given
    on the basis that the Appellants had decided to withdraw from the
    joint venture, and not because of any impasse as to price. Further,
    there was in fact no impasse on price as FSP’s monthly invoices for
    the coal supplied in 2011 showed that the price had been set at
    US$29.70 per tonne. Even if there had been any impasse on price,
    this ought to have been resolved by the price setting mechanism
    under cl 8.2 of the CSAs instead of by ceasing coal supply to KSC
    (at [103]–[104]).
    



    The CoA also found, based on the notes of the 17 November 2011
    Meeting, that BR had imposed the Buyout Condition at that meeting.
    Among other things, the CoA held that it was incongruous for the
    Appellants to aver that the Buyout Condition had not been imposed
    when they maintained during the 6 December 2011 EGM that BR would
    insist on liquidating KSC if its stake in KSC were not bought out.
    The CoA thus upheld the Court’s finding that BR had breached its
    coal supply obligation. As this obligation was fundamental to the
    joint venture, BR’s breach was repudiatory of the JV Deed (at            [105]–[112]).
    


The Repudiation Issue



    The Repudiation Issue centred on whether BR was justified in
    issuing its termination notice of 21 February 2012. This in turn
    depended on whether, as the Appellants contended, BCBCS had
    repudiated the JV Deed by unilaterally causing KSC to incur the
    Excess Debt and the Excess Expenditure, and by unilaterally causing
    the Tabang Plant to be put into care and maintenance on 15 December
    2011. The CoA found that none of these alleged grounds for
    terminating the JV Deed were valid.
    



    With regard to the Excess Debt, the CoA found that BCBCS did not
    unilaterally cause KSC to incur this debt, albeit for slightly
    different reasons from those of the Court. Construing cl 7.1 of the
    JV Deed as a whole, the CoA considered that this clause
    differentiated between member funding and third party funding.
    Where a party unilaterally caused KSC to receive member funding,
    this would constitute a breach of cl 7.1 (specifically, cl 7.1(hh))
    only if the member concerned created an obligation on KSC’s part to
    repay the funds advanced. The US$6m extended by BCBCS to KSC on top
    of the US$40m PLFA facility did not result in an obligation on
    KSC’s part to repay BCBCS, and it therefore could not be said that
    there was a breach of the JV Deed (at [119]–[147]
    ).
    



    In reaching the aforesaid conclusion, the CoA rejected the
    Appellants’ reliance on Seldon v Davidson [1968] 1 WLR
    1083 (“Seldon”) to argue that the onus was on the
    Respondents to show that KSC had no obligation to repay BCBCS. The
    CoA cast doubt on the correctness of Seldon insofar as it
    stood for the proposition that where a party admitted to receiving
    a sum of money, there was prima facie an obligation to
    repay. The relevant question, the CoA held, was not whether a party
    had admitted to receiving a sum of money, but whether it had
    admitted to incurring a debt. On the facts, the Respondents’
    pleadings denied the Appellants’ Excess Debt argument. This meant
    that the Appellants bore the burden of proving that KSC had
    incurred the Excess Debt, which burden they had failed to discharge
    (at [134]–[146]).
    



    As for the Excess Expenditure, the CoA dismissed the Appellants’
    contention that BCBCS had unilaterally caused KSC to incur that
    expenditure. It highlighted that KSC was itself responsible for
    making decisions on its expenditure; moreover, BR had control over
    KSC’s expenditure by way of its ability to refuse to sign KSC’s
    cheques (at [148]–[151]).
    



    The CoA also found that BCBCS had not unilaterally placed the
    Tabang Plant into care and maintenance. The evidence showed that
    the parties had agreed at the 6 December 2011 EGM to implement a
    care and maintenance program, with possibly only the apportionment
    of the costs of the program left open (at            [152]–[156]).
    


The Causation Issue



    The Causation Issue concerned the Appellants’ argument that any
    breaches of the JV Deed by BR had not caused BCBCS any loss because
    KSC lacked funding and thus would have been unable to get the
    Tabang Plant to the point where it could undertake commercial
    production (at [158]).
    



    The CoA held that the key question at the heart of the Causation
    Issue was whether BCBCS was willing and able to fund KSC by itself.
    It agreed with the Court that BCBCS was willing to fund KSC
    unilaterally, noting, among other things, that BCBCS had continued
    to fund KSC even after BR first expressed its desire to withdraw
    from the joint venture (at [161]–[167]).
    



    As for whether BCBCS was able to fund KSC by itself, the CoA
    observed that the Court had reserved its decision on this point to
    the next tranche of trial on the basis that there was insufficient
    evidence before it, and held that the Court was not entitled to do
    so. The issue of BCBCS’s ability to fund KSC had been squarely and
    properly before the Court as it was intricately tied to the
    question of whether KSC had sufficient funds to keep operating the
    Tabang Plant. The Court therefore ought to have decided the issue.
    Consequently, the CoA remitted this issue to the Court for its
    determination (at [168]–[177]).
    




This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


