

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


17 August 2018


Case summary



Lee Tat Development Pte Ltd v Management Corporation Strata Title Plan
No 301

[2018] SGCA 50

Civil Appeal No 117 of 2017



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon
Leong):



The CoA holds that the tort of malicious prosecution should not be extended
to civil proceedings generally, that there is no tort of abuse of process,
and that the appellant is estopped by an overruled CoA decision from
bringing a claim in trespass.


Background




    This appeal is about the consequences of a longstanding legal
    dispute over whether the residents of a condominium development
    called Grange Heights had a right of way over a strip of land to
    access a road in a prime district in the city. In 2005, the Court
    of Appeal held that they had such a right of way. But in 2008, the
    Court of Appeal overruled its 2005 decision, holding that any such
    right of way had been extinguished by law in 1976 when the two
    adjoining plots of land on which Grange Heights was built (Lots
    111-34 and 561) were amalgamated. In the proceedings from which
    this appeal arose, the owners of the strip of land, Lee Tat
    Development Pte Ltd (“Lee Tat”), sued the management corporation of
    Grange Heights (“the MCST”), claiming damages for the MCST’s (a)
    malicious prosecution of two previous actions to assert the right
    of way; (b) abuse of the court’s process, by asserting that right
    in four previous actions; (c) malicious expression of the falsehood
    that it possessed that right, on two occasions; and (d) trespass on
    Lee Tat’s property, by using the strip of land until the 2008
    decision was handed down in December that year.
    



    Today, for the reasons summarised below, the Court of Appeal
    upholds the High Court’s decision to dismiss all four claims. In
    particular, the Court declines Lee Tat’s invitation to extend the
    tort of malicious prosecution to civil proceedings generally, thus
    electing not to follow two recent decisions of the UK Supreme Court
    and the UK Judicial Committee of the Privy Council respectively,
    both decisions notably being the result of a sharply divided coram.
    The Court also declines to recognise the tort of abuse of process.
    

Malicious prosecution




    The Court holds that although a party is entitled to recover
    damages for the malicious prosecution of criminal proceedings
    against him, he is not entitled to recover damages for the
    malicious prosecution of civil claims against him, except in very
    limited and defined categories of cases which are not applicable to
    the present case. This is for reasons of principle and policy. (            [85] and [128])
    



    In terms of principle, essential differences between criminal and
    civil proceedings justify maintaining the distinction as to whether
    either is capable of giving rise to claims for malicious
    prosecution. In particular, the public character and the generally
    harsher consequences of criminal proceedings undergird the law’s
    recognition that those who suffer damage at the hands of
    prosecutors who abuse their function for malicious reasons deserve
    a remedy. Furthermore, extending the tort to civil proceedings
    generally is inconsistent with the principle that malice is
    generally irrelevant in the context of tort law, which assumes that
    if an act is lawful, a person has the right to do it despite any
    ill motives on his part. Finally, extending the tort that way would
    introduce uncertainty into cognate areas of law, such as the law of
    privilege. ([86]–[103])
    



    In terms of policy, extending the tort would undermine the
    principle of finality in the law by encouraging needless satellite
    litigation of the kind exemplified by the present case. It would
    also have a chilling effect on regular litigation by deterring
    genuine claimants from invoking the court’s jurisdiction. It would
    also be incompatible with an increasing shift towards integrating
    mediation as a method of dispute resolution into the fabric of our
    legal system. Finally, there exist mechanisms in the current rules
    of civil procedure for bringing to a prompt and early end claims
    that would otherwise constitute malicious prosecutions. (            [104]–[127])
    

Abuse of process




    The Court considers that the torts of abuse of process and
    malicious prosecution are similar not only as to their elements but
    also as to their underlying rationale. Accordingly, the policy
    reasons leading the Court not to extend the latter to civil
    proceedings also compel the Court not to recognise the former. In
    particular, recognising the tort of abuse of process would
    undermine the principle of finality. Although a claim in the tort
    need not be brought only after conclusion of the proceedings which
    are alleged to be abusive, such a claim can still be brought many
    years after, as has been done in the present case. Recognising the
    tort would also create a chilling effect for genuine litigants.
    Finally, there are existing rules of civil procedure which deal
    precisely with various aspects of abuse of process of the court. (            [150]–[161])
    

Malicious falsehood




    The first statement Lee Tat claims is a malicious falsehood asserts
    that “the estate’s owners had the right to use the road forever –
    for walking as well as for driving” and that “the residents could
    not give up the right to access because it was a valuable piece of
    land”. The second asserts that Grange Heights enjoyed “[c]onvenient
    access from Grange Road”. The Court holds that both statements were
    not malicious falsehoods because they were not made with malice.
    There was no evidence that they were made with a dominant or
    improper intention to injure Lee Tat. Further, at the time the
    statements were made, in 1997 and 2007 respectively, there were
    judicial pronouncements stating or suggesting that Grange Heights
    residents had a right of way over the strip of land. This militates
    against any suggestion that the MCST could not have had an honest
    belief in the truth of the statements, or that the MCST made the
    statements with reckless disregard as to their truth. (            [181]–[185])
    

Trespass




    Lee Tat’s claim in trespass is limited to the period between
    December 2006 and December 2008 as a result of the applicable
    limitation period. This was the period between (a) when time
    started to run for limitation purposes, which was during the period
    when the Court’s 2005 decision in the MCST’s favour prevailed; and
    (b) the Court’s 2008 decision which found that the MCST had no
    right of way over the strip of land. The Court holds that there are
    two reasons why Lee Tat is estopped from pursuing its claim in
    trespass in respect of this period. ([186] and            [195])
    



    The first reason is as follows. In 2008, the Court set aside its
    2005 decision on the basis that in that decision, it had wrongly
    held that one of its previous decisions in this litigation, handed
    down in 1992, had determined the issue whether the right of way,
    which was granted for the benefit of only Lot 111-34, extended to
    Lot 561. In fact, the 1992 decision made no such determination.
    However, in setting aside the 2005 decision, the Court in 2008 had
    impermissibly sidestepped the truly determinative finding in the
    2005 decision, namely, that Lee Tat was estopped from disputing the
    MCST’s right of way. Even if the Court in the 2005 decision had
    erred in so finding, that erroneous decision should have been given
    effect because of the principle of finality. Thus, the Court in
    2008 was wrong to have set aside the 2005 decision, as had been
    recognised in obiter dicta in an unrelated 2015 decision
    of the Court,
    
    The Royal Bank of Scotland NV (formerly known as ABN Amro Bank
    NV) and others v TT International Ltd (nTan Corporation
    Advisory Pte Ltd and others, other parties) and another appeal
    
    [2015] 5 SLR 1104. However, although the Court had erred in setting
    aside the 2005 decision in its 2008 decision, the latter decision
    had to be given final effect. That said, there was no reason for
    the Court now to perpetuate this error by allowing Lee Tat to reach
    back in time to establish a claim in trespass. (            [196])
    



    Second, the 2005 decision enjoys a measure of finality that enables
    the MCST now to rely on it as representing the definitive authority
    on the parties’ rights from the period of December 2006 to December
    2008. The fact is that the Court is now faced with two
    contradictory but final decisions of an apex court, namely, its
    2005 decision and its 2008 decision, and the question is which
    should be given effect as between Lee Tat and the MCST during that
    period. The answer has to be the 2005 decision because it was the
    only decision upon which the parties during that period could have
    ordered their affairs. ([197]–[203])
    



    Finally, the Court holds that Lee Tat is unable to escape the issue
    estoppel arising from the 2005 decision. It is unable to show that
    the MCST obtained that decision by actual fraud. The only other
    recognised exception to issue estoppel is what is known as the            Arnold exception, which enables a decided issue to be
    reargued if, among other things, there is no attempt to claw back
    rights or benefits that have accrued pursuant to the decision.
    However, clawing back benefits that have accrued pursuant to the
    2005 decision is precisely what Lee Tat is attempting to do here. (            [204]–[208])
    


    This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the
    Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
    reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
    brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the
    Court’s judgment.
    



