
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
16 August 2018 
Case summary
TSF v TSE   [2018] SGCA 49
Civil Appeal No 167 of 2017, and Summons No 27 of 2018 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JA):
Outcome: CoA granted care and control of young boy with special needs to his father who resides in Singapore, and access in Singapore to his mother who resides in the UK.  
 
The material facts
1           The present appeal concerned the appropriate orders for the care and control of a young boy, M, who is a Singapore citizen born in London. His parents brought him to Singapore in mid-2013 and he had resided here since. At the time of the appeal, M attended a kindergarten and was due for enrolment in a local primary school in early 2019. In March 2017, he was diagnosed as having Autism Spectrum Disorder (“ASD”). 
2          The appellant was M’s father (“the Father”), a Singaporean. He worked in the London offices of an international bank during the marriage. He returned to Singapore in September 2016 and worked as an administrator. At the time of the appeal, M resided with him and the paternal grandparents (“the Grandparents”) who are retirees.  
3          M’s mother (“the Mother”), the respondent, is a national of another Asian country. After the parties married in June 2011, she moved to London to live with the Father. After the divorce proceedings were instituted, she continued to reside in their English matrimonial home, and was granted a “Leave to Remain” permit by the UK authorities in August 2017, which entitles her to live and work in the UK until 31 January 2020, subject to possible extensions. 
4          Since January 2014, the Father and the Mother had been engaged in a contest for M’s custody in two jurisdictions: Singapore and England. Several orders were made by the English courts requiring the Father to return the child to England, but none were complied with. Further, as a result of the parties’ respective conduct during the course of the proceedings, by the time of this appeal, neither of them was able to freely travel to the jurisdiction of the other parent’s residence. 
5          In TSH and another v TSE and another and another appeal and another suit matter [2017] SGHCF 21 (“the Judgment”) which was released in August 2017, the High Court judge (“the Judge”) held, amongst other things, that it was in the best interests of the child for him to be returned to his Mother’s care in England. The Judge thus granted joint custody to both parents, care and control to the Mother, and reasonable access to the Father.
6          On appeal from the Judgment, the only issue was who would have control over the child’s daily life. Both parties accepted the order for joint custody. The Father also filed an application for leave to adduce fresh evidence in the appeal in the form of three reports: 


a report by a consultant paediatrician dated 22 January 2018 which confirmed M’s diagnosis of ASD, observed that he had made good progress, and stated that his condition could stagnate if the early intervention programme he was undergoing was disrupted; 


a report by M’s kindergarten vice principal dated 28 February 2018 stating that M had shown significant improvement in his speech, organisation of thought, and gross motor skills, which were likely a result of therapy; and 


a report regarding M’s performance in an early intervention programme dated 26 January 2018 which recorded M’s progress and the Father’s involvement in aspects of the programme. 


 
Decision on appeal
7          The Court of Appeal allowed the Father’s application and his appeal. 
8          In determining the admissibility of the three reports, the principles of Ladd v Marshall [1954] 1 WLR 1489 did not apply. Instead, as the three reports related to matters that occurred after the date of the decision from which the appeal was brought, the test was whether the further evidence would have a “perceptible impact” on the decision such that it was in the interest of justice that it should be admitted (at [43]). On the facts, it was clear that all three reports would have a perceptible impact on the decision in the appeal (at [46]). Consequently, the Father’s application to admit them as fresh evidence was allowed (at [48]). 
9          In determining the welfare or best interests of a child, the court should consider the non-exhaustive factors proposed by the Family Law Review Working Group in its report titled Recommendations for Guardianship Reform in Singapore dated 23 March 2016 (at [33]), including the child’s needs and safety, the capacity of each parent to provide for such needs and to ensure such safety, the child’s relationship with each parent, the need to ensure a continuing relationship between the child and his parents, and the effect of any change to the child’s life (at [51]). 
10        On the evidence, the Court disagreed with the Judge’s view that it was in M’s best interests for the Mother to have his care and control at this time. Rather, M’s best interests would be better served if he remained in Singapore with the Father and the Grandparents. Consequently, care and control was awarded to the Father (at [96]). The Court based its conclusion on the following main reasons: 


in relation to M’s bond with each of his significant care-givers, this factor was neutral as between the parties (at [64]); 


in relation to M’s needs and the capacity of the parties to provide for them, all three aspects – emotional, developmental, and material needs – weighed in favour of the Father (at [67] to [69]); 


in relation to the character and conduct of the parties, the Father’s behaviour was worse but he had shown signs of improvement, which offered some hope that, with suitable encouragement and incentives, he could conduct himself better (at [81]); 


in relation to which parent would likely maintain and facilitate M’s relationship with the other parent, this was a factor that weighed in favour of the Mother (at [83] to [85]); 


in relation to the impact of change and the need for stability in a child’s life, this was a factor which strongly supported maintaining status quo, particularly given M’s diagnosis with ASD in March 2017 and his progress since then which was likely to be due to the early intervention programme that he had attended since June 2017 (at [89] and [90]); 


other considerations, including the Mother’s uncertain immigration status in the UK (at [93]), M’s liability for national service as a male Singapore citizen (at [94]), and M’s stated contentment with his current living arrangements (at [95]), militated in favour of granting care and control to the Father.  


11        As for the issue of access, the Mother indicated immigration and financial constraints in coming to Singapore for the purpose of access to M: she needs a sponsor situated in Singapore as a result of the immigration offences she committed here, and the travelling and living expenses would also be difficult for her (at [99]). In the circumstances, the Court ordered, amongst other things, that the Father shall stand sponsor to the Mother for at least two trips to Singapore per calendar year on the basis that each trip does not exceed four weeks’ duration; and for each of these trips, the Father shall also provide the Mother with return economy class air tickets and a lump sum of $2,000 as a contribution to the costs of her living expenses while in Singapore (at [100]). Given that family situations can change, the access arrangements are to be reviewed by the High Court in one year’s time and thereafter, at such intervals as the Family Division shall deem necessary (at [101]). 
12        The costs orders made by the Judge were to remain, and each party was ordered to bear his/her own costs of the appeal (at [104] and [105]). 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.

