
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
2 August 2018
Case summary
Turf Club Auto Emporium Pte Ltd and
others v Yeo Boong Hua and others and another appeal [2018] SGCA 44 
Civil Appeals Nos 168 and 171 of 2015
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Andrew Phang Boon Leong JA):
Outcome: CoA finds appellants liable in contract and tort for breaches of
consent order to settle a joint venture dispute; grants damages assessed by
reference to respondents’ shareholding in joint venture companies.
Pertinent and significant points of the
judgment


Wrotham Park damages (this term originates from the
    English High Court decision of Wrotham Park Estate Co Ltd v Parkside Homes
    Ltd and Others [1974] 1 WLR 798) are a recognised head of damages
    under Singapore law. They are objective awards aimed at compensating the
    plaintiff for the loss of his performance interest (ie, the primary right to performance of the defendant’s
    obligations) due to the defendant’s breach of contract. However, they fulfil
    this purpose only in a specific and limited category of cases: at [215].


There
    are three legal requirements that need to be satisfied before a court can award
    Wrotham Park damages. First, as a
    threshold requirement, the court must be satisfied that orthodox compensatory remedies
    are unavailable. Second, it must, as a general rule, be established that there
    has been (in substance, and not merely in form) a breach of a negative
    covenant. Third, it must not be irrational or totally unrealistic to expect the
    parties to bargain for the release of the relevant covenant, even on a
    hypothetical basis: at [217].


Wrotham Park damages are to be measured by such a
    sum of money as might reasonably have been demanded as a quid pro quo for relaxing the covenant. The assessment is objective
    and by reference to a hypothetical bargain rather than the actual conduct and
    position of the parties: at [244].


1          Civil
Appeals Nos 168 and 171 and 2015 arose out of a dispute between two groups
of parties which entered into a joint venture to develop a site in Bukit Timah
referred to as “Turf City”.
Background
to the appeal
2          The
first group, collectively known as the “SAA Group”, comprised five individuals:
Tan Huat Chye (“Tan Senior”), Tan Chee Beng (“Tan CB”), Koh Khong Meng
(“Koh KM”), Ng Chye Samuel (“Samuel Ng”) and Ong Cher Keong (“Ong CK”).
The second group comprised the Respondents. SAA Group and the Respondents held,
respectively, 62.5% and 37.5% of the shares in the two companies incorporated
pursuant to this joint venture (“the JV Companies”).
3          In
2001, the site was leased from the Singapore Land Authority (“SLA”) by
Singapore Agro Agricultural Pte Ltd (“SAA”), a company controlled by the SAA
Group. SAA granted sub-tenancies to the JV Companies, which in turn
granted sub-sub-tenancies to ultimate tenants. The rent or fees payable by the
ultimate tenants was the main source of revenue for the JV Companies. In
2004, this head lease expired and was renewed for another three years through a
fresh head lease (“the 2004 Head Lease”).
4          While
the site was being developed, the two groups fell into disputes. The
Respondents commenced actions based on, among other things, allegations of
minority oppression (“the Consolidated Suits”). The named defendants were the
JV Companies, SAA, Samuel Ng, Koh KM and Tan Senior (“Defendants
(Consolidated Suits)”), but not Tan CB or Ong CK. 
5          Before
the Consolidated Suits proceeded to trial, the parties reached a settlement
that was recorded by the High Court in a consent order (“the Consent Order”). The
Consent Order provided for a bidding exercise to be conducted within certain
timelines so as to end the joint venture by extricating either the Respondents
or the SAA Group from the JV Companies (“the Bidding Exercise”). The higher
bidder would purchase the shares of the lower bidder, and those behind the
lower bid would resign as directors of the JV Companies. Two external
entities (“the KPMG Entities”) were engaged to conduct a valuation of the
shares of the JV Companies and supervise the Bidding Exercise.
6          However,
there was a delay in the issuance of the valuation reports. During this period,
unbeknownst to both the KPMG Entities and the Respondents, SAA renewed the
2004 Head Lease with SLA for another three years (“the 2007 Head Lease”).
Crucially, unlike in the case of the previous head leases, SAA did not grant
corresponding sub-tenancies to the JV Companies. As a result, the KPMG Entities’
valuation reports reflected a very pessimistic outlook because they did not
take into account the 2007 Head Lease and the earning capacities of the
JV Companies in the period after the expiry of the 2004 Head Lease. Eventually,
the 2007 Head Lease came to light. The Respondents called for revised valuation
reports to be issued but the SAA Group refused to do so.
Procedural
history
7          In
2009, the Respondents commenced High Court Suit No 27 against the Appellants,
claiming the following:


contractual breaches of the Consent
    Order, namely, cl 11 (which required parties to preserve the status quo during the implementation of
    the Consent Order); an implied term that SAA would not appropriate for itself
    the benefit of the 2007 Head Lease pending full performance of the Consent
    Order; and cl 5 (which required the Defendants (Consolidated Suits) not to
    interfere or hinder the KPMG Entities’ discharge of their duties in respect of
    the valuation exercise);


in the alternative, breaches of
    fiduciary duties owed to the Respondents; and


in the alternative, liability in tort
    for conspiring to breach the Consent Order and/or inducing the breaches of the
    Consent Order.


8          The
High Court judge (“the Judge”) found that the Defendants (Consolidated Suits)
had breached cl 11, the implied term and cl 5 of the Consent Order,
by SAA’s acquisition of the 2007 Head Lease without granting sub-tenancies to
the JV Companies and their omission to inform the KPMG Entities of the
2007 Head Lease. The Judge also found that all three breaches were repudiatory
in nature (“the Repudiatory Breaches”). 
9          On
appeal, the Court of Appeal upheld the Judge’s findings on the Repudiatory
Breaches but disagreed that the Consent Order could therefore be set aside and
the Consolidated Suits revived. Subsequently, the Court directed parties to
address three issues: (a) whether the Appellants owed fiduciary duties to
the Respondents and, if so, whether those duties were breached (“the Fiduciary
Duties Issue”); (b) which parties were liable in contract for each of the
Repudiatory Breaches, and therefore subject to any contractual remedies that
the court may impose (“the Party Issue”); and (c) what remedies should
follow from the Repudiatory Breaches (“the Remedy Issue”). With regard to the
Remedy Issue, the key question was whether there was scope for the award of Wrotham Park damages as well as the head of damages recognised
in the UK House of Lords decision of Attorney-General
v Blake (Jonathan Cape Ltd Third Party) [2001] AC 268 (“AG v Blake damages”).
10        Following
the hearing of these three issues in August 2017, the Court remitted a question
to the Judge on whether the Appellants who were not liable in contract might
nonetheless be liable in tort (“the Tort Issue”). The Judge delivered his
supplementary judgment in October 2017, holding that: (a) Tan CB, Koh KM,
Tan Senior and Ong CK were liable for the tort of conspiracy to injure the
Respondents by unlawful means (ie, by
procuring the breaches of the Consent Order); and (b) Tan CB, Tan
Senior and Ong CK were liable for the tort of inducing the breaches of the
Consent Order by SAA. The Court heard the parties on the correctness of these
findings in March 2018.
Decision
on appeal
11        In
respect of the four issues mentioned above, the Court of Appeal held as follows:


The Respondents’ claim for breach of
    fiduciary duties was dismissed.


SAA and Koh KM were liable in
    contract for the Repudiatory Breaches.


Neither an award of Wrotham Park damages nor AG v
    Blake damages was appropriate on the facts of the case.


Tan CB and Tan Senior were liable for
    the torts of conspiracy and inducing breaches of contract.


The Fiduciary Duties Issue
12        The
SAA Group and the Respondents were not in a fiduciary relationship. Their
relationship was formal and commercial in nature. It was not one of mutual
trust and confidence that would give rise to a legitimate expectation on the
part of the Respondents that the SAA Group would not utilise its position to
act in a way adverse to the Respondents’ interests (at [42]–[45]). 
13        Even
if the SAA Group owed the Respondents fiduciary duties, the majority of the
alleged breaches had not been pleaded and had to be disregarded (at [48]). Moreover, since the same claims were
pleaded as part of the minority oppression action in the Consolidated Suits, they
had been compromised by the Consent Order. It would be an abuse of process for
the Respondents to re-characterise these claims as breaches of fiduciary duties
and re-litigate them (at [49]). Thus,
the Respondents’ claim for breach of fiduciary duties was dismissed.
The Party Issue
14        Tan
Senior, Tan CB and Ong CK were not liable in contract for the
Repudiatory Breaches as they were not parties to the Consent Order. Insofar as
Tan Senior was concerned, there was insufficient evidence to show that he was a
party to the Consent Order. The mere fact that he was named within it, or that
he might have known about it, were both insufficient bases for finding that he
was party to the same (at [61]–[63]).
As for Tan CB and Ong CK, they had not been named within the Consent
Order, nor were they parties to the Consolidated Suits which the Consent Order had
purported to settle (at [64]).
16        SAA
had breached cl 11 and the implied term of the Consent Order by its
appropriation of the benefit of the 2007 Head Lease (at [68]). In addition, SAA had breached cl 5 by failing to
disclose the existence of the 2007 Head Lease to the KPMG Entities,
thereby hindering the discharge of their duties (at [70]).
17        Koh KM
had also breached cl 5 of the Consent Order. Given his involvement in the
SAA Group and his status as director of the JV Companies, Koh KM
must have known about the 2007 Head Lease at the time when it was granted to
SAA or shortly thereafter. Since he came to know of such information that was
material to the KPMG Entities’ discharge of their duties, he should have
disclosed the existence of the 2007 Head Lease to them. His failure to do so
was a breach of cl 5 (at [73]–[87]).
Thus, SAA and Koh KM were liable in contract for the Repudiatory Breaches.
The Remedy Issue
18        The
Court undertook a detailed examination of the nature and applicability of Wrotham Park damages and made some
tentative observations regarding AG v
Blake damages. However, on the facts, the Court declined to grant an award
of either head of damages.
Wrotham Park damages
19        Wrotham Park damages are a recognised head
of damages under Singapore contract law. Their overarching rationale is the protection
of the plaintiff’s performance interest (ie,
the primary right to performance of the defendant’s obligations). Although Wrotham Park damages may be descriptively restitutionary in the sense that part
or all of the defendant’s gain is awarded to the plaintiff, their normative
basis is compensatory in nature: they are aimed at compensating the plaintiff
for the loss of his performance interest due to the defendant’s breach. The
reference to the defendant’s gain is merely a method of quantifying the
damages, rather than the basis of the award. Wrotham Park damages fulfil their compensatory purpose only in a
specific and limited category of cases, namely, where there is a remedial
lacuna arising from the unavailability of orthodox compensatory damages
(measured by reference to the plaintiff’s expectation or reliance loss) or specific
relief, but where there is still a need to provide the plaintiff with a remedy
to protect his performance interest, and where the lacuna can be rationally and
sensibly filled by reference to the hypothetical bargain measure (at [168]–[177]; [179]–[209]; [215]; [247]).
20        There
are three legal requirements that need to be satisfied before a court will
award Wrotham Park damages (at [217]):


First, as a threshold requirement, the
    court must be satisfied that orthodox
    compensatory remedies are unavailable. In other words, it must be a case
    where the plaintiff would otherwise be entitled to no, or only nominal,
    damages. Such a remedial lacuna will typically be present where the plaintiff
    has not suffered any financial loss at all arising from the defendant’s breach,
    and specific relief is not available because the court cannot or will not grant
    such relief. It may also be present where the plaintiff has suffered some
    financial loss, but it is practically impossible to assess compensatory damages
    based on the orthodox measures. This is a high threshold; mere “difficulty” in
    assessing compensatory damages does not justify an award of Wrotham Park damages (at [173]–[174]; [218]–[225]).


Second, it must, as a general rule, be
    established that there has been a breach
    of a negative covenant. The obligation breached must be a negative covenant
    in substance, and not merely a positive obligation “dressed up” as a negative
    covenant in form (at [171]; [226]–[229]).


Third, the case must not be one where it would be irrational or totally unrealistic to expect
    the parties to bargain for the release of the relevant covenant, even on a
    hypothetical basis. A clear situation where the hypothetical measure would
    not apply is where the agreement to release the covenant would be legally
    impermissible (at [230]–[237]).


21        Wrotham Park damages are to be
measured by such a sum of money as might reasonably have been demanded by the
plaintiff from the defendant as a quid pro quo for relaxing the covenant
between them. This is an objective assessment as at the date of the breach and
by reference to a hypothetical bargain, rather than the actual conduct and
position of the parties. The actual (or subjective) loss suffered by the
plaintiff or gain made by the defendant are irrelevant (at [194]; [244]–[246]).
22        On the facts, an award of Wrotham Park
damages was not appropriate because the first and third legal requirements were
not satisfied. On the former, the Respondents could be awarded orthodox
compensatory damages, assessed by reference to the value of their shareholding
in the JV Companies at the time of the Repudiatory Breaches, with a premium of
15% to more accurately reflect their true expectation loss (at [290]–[295]). On the latter, it was
irrational and totally unrealistic to expect the parties to enter into a
bargain for the release of SAA’s obligation to refrain from upsetting the status
quo so that the Bidding Exercise could proceed as contemplated, even on a
hypothetical basis. This is so for two reasons. First, it would have defeated
the purpose of the Consent Order and rendered nugatory the settlement of the
Consolidated Suits. Second, the hypothetical negotiation would have been for
the SAA Group to buy-out the Respondents’ interests in the joint venture – but such
a possibility had already been provided for under the Bidding Exercise. It
would therefore have been wholly irrational for the parties to have entered
into such a negotiation on the eve of the Bidding Exercise (at [297]–[301]). Accordingly, an award of Wrotham
Park damages was not appropriate.
AG v Blake
damages
23        The primary difficulty in recognising AG
v Blake damages as a part of Singapore law was the uncertainty of the legal
criteria to be applied in awarding such damages. However, it was possible to rationalise
AG v Blake as a case where the law had a legitimate basis for punishing
the defendant and deterring non-performance because the contract in question
concerned a public interest which went beyond the parties’ private interests,
thus necessitating a departure from the compensatory principle and justifying a
restitutionary award. Under this rationalisation, AG v Blake damages could
be recognised as an exceptional remedy confined to this unique category of cases
(at [252]–[254]). 
24        In any event, on the facts, there was no
basis for an award of AG v Blake damages. The present case arose from an
ordinary commercial dispute following the collapse of a joint venture. This
fell far below the threshold which would justify stripping away the Appellants’
gains as an end in itself (at [302]).

The Tort Issue
25        Tan CB was personally liable for
the torts of conspiring to procure and inducing SAA’s breaches of the Consent
Order. Although he was a director of SAA, he was not immune from personal
tortious liability because he had breached his fiduciary duty to act bona
fide in SAA’s best interests when he caused it to fail to grant the
sub-tenancies to the JV Companies, in breach of the Consent Order (at [331]–[344]). The Court also upheld the
Judge’s holding that the substantive elements of both torts were established (at
[346]–[358]).
26        Tan Senior was also liable for both
torts. In this regard, the Court emphasised that the threshold for appellate
intervention in the Judge’s factual findings had not been crossed, and thus upheld
the holding that the substantive elements of both torts were established (at [369]–[372]).
27        The quantum of damages due to the
Respondents on the tortious claims was identical to that due to the Respondents
on the contractual claim. This was because the breaches of the Consent Order
were at the heart of the tortious claims, and the position that the Respondents
would have been in had the torts not been committed was identical to the
position that they would have been in had the Consent Order been performed (at [387]).
28        Accordingly, SAA and Koh KM (in contract),
together with Tan CB and Tan Senior (in tort), were jointly and severally
liable to the Respondents for compensatory damages to be assessed by reference
to the value of the Respondents’ 37.5% shareholding in the JV Companies at
the time of the Repudiatory Breaches, with a premium of 15% (at [390(b)]).
 
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
