
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE13 April 2023Case summaryAhmad Danial bin Mohamed Rafa’ee v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGHC 94General Division of the High Court – Magistrate’s Appeal No 9133 of 2022/01--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The court dismisses the appellant’s appeal and upholds the decision of the district judge to grant a discharge not amounting to an acquittal on the charge of murder against him. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where an accused person has been charged, there is no clarity as to his guilt or innocence, and there is some basis for thinking that he is involved in the matter, the presumptive position is that a discharge not amounting to an acquittal (“DNATA”) should be ordered instead of a discharge amounting to an acquittal (“DATA”): at [26], [28] and [30].•  The presumptive position will be stronger where the charge is for a serious offence, where there is no uncertainty about when the Prosecution will complete its investigations, or where the accused person has wrongfully contributed to the Prosecution’s difficulty in proceeding with the matter: at [31].•  The presumptive position may be displaced where there is no real or reasonable prospect of a prosecution occurring in the future, or where there are grounds to suggest that the charge should not have been brought at all: at [33].•  Any past prejudice caused to the accused person, whether it is the Prosecution’s fault or not, will not typically be relevant: at [39] and [40].•  In assessing the prospect of a future prosecution, the court is not required to make an objective assessment of the Prosecution’s intended investigative efforts. A confirmation from the Prosecution that it is pursuing live leads and has reason to believe its investigations will bear fruit should suffice: at [41].Background to the appeal1 In 2007, Ms Felicia Teo Wei Ling (“Ms Teo”) disappeared. The appellant was one of the last two people to see her alive. The other person was Mr Ragil Putra Setia Sukmarahjana (“Mr Ragil”). The appellant and Mr Ragil were traced and interviewed by the authorities in 2007, but both claimed at the time that they did not know what happened to Ms Teo or where she was.2 Thirteen years later, in 2020, a review of the case uncovered evidence that suggested that the appellant might have provided an inaccurate account of events when he was interviewed in 2007. The appellant was arrested and questioned again. He was charged with the murder of Ms Teo in furtherance of a common intention with Mr Ragil (the “Charge”). In the course of further investigations, the appellant admitted to the authorities that he had, in 2007, deposited Ms Teo’s corpse in a public place, misappropriated her property, failed to report her death, given false evidence to the police and fabricated false evidence to evade suspicion. He maintained, however, that he was not in any way responsible for causing Ms Teo’s death.3 Slightly more than 18 months after the appellant was charged with murder, the Prosecution applied under s 232(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (2020 Rev Ed) (“CPC”) for a DNATA on the Charge. The Prosecution explained that it was seeking a DNATA because Mr Ragil was still at large and the police were in the process of tracing him. 4 The appellant objected to the Prosecution’s application and sought a DATA instead. The district judge (the “DJ”) granted the Prosecution’s application for a DNATA.Decision5 The decision to seek a discharge pursuant to s 232(1) of the CPC is made in the exercise of the Public Prosecutor’s constitutional discretionary power. When the Public Prosecutor informs the court that he will not further prosecute an accused person upon a charge, the court must order a discharge pursuant to s 232(1) of the CPC. The court does, however, have the discretion to decide whether that discharge should amount to an acquittal. This discretion is encapsulated in s 232(2) of the CPC. In exercising this discretion, (a) there is an initial presumption in favour of granting a DNATA, and the accused person must show sufficient reasons to displace this presumption; and (b) the court must decide the matter on the merits, balancing the public interest and the rights of the accused person: at [24], [25].6 Given that a DATA completely clears an accused person of the offence with which he was charged without a trial, it will not generally be appropriate where an accused person has been charged, there is no clarity as to his guilt or innocence, and there is some basis for thinking that he is involved in the matter. In most cases, a DNATA strikes an obvious balance in that it allows the State to revive the proceedings if and when it is able to pursue the prosecution, while the accused person is freed of at least of some of the restrictions that come with having been charged, including very onerous ones such as being held in remand where the offence is a non-bailable one. It is for these reasons that the presumptive position is that the court’s discretion will lie in favour of ordering a DNATA: at [28], [30].7 The presumptive position will be stronger where the charge is for a serious offence, where there is no uncertainty about when the Prosecution will complete its investigations, or where the accused person has wrongfully contributed to the Prosecution’s difficulty in proceeding with the matter: at [31].8 The presumptive position may be displaced where there is no real or reasonable prospect of a prosecution occurring in the future, or where there are grounds to suggest that the charge should not have been brought at all. In assessing the prospect of a future prosecution, the court is not required to make an objective assessment of the Prosecution’s intended investigative efforts. A confirmation from the Prosecution that it is pursuing live leads and has reason to believe its investigations will bear fruit should suffice: at [33], [41].9 Any past prejudice caused to the accused person, whether it is the Prosecution’s fault or not, will not typically be relevant: at [39] and [40].10 In the present case, the offence involved was murder. The seriousness of the offence strengthened the presumptive position that a DNATA was appropriate. While the offence did take place some 16 or so years ago, the appellant lied about his involvement when first interviewed by the police in 2007. Any delay was, in a sense, a problem of his own making: at [43], [44].11 At the hearing of the appeal, the Prosecution confirmed that: (a) in its present view, Mr Ragil’s evidence was necessary to enable the Charge to be prosecuted against the appellant; (b) in the absence of Mr Ragil’s further assistance, its position at present was that it would not proceed with the Charge against the appellant based on such evidence as it had been able to obtain; (c) there was reason to believe that Mr Ragil was in Indonesia; and (d) efforts were underway to locate Mr Ragil and to enable the Singapore authorities to secure his further assistance. In these circumstances, it seemed that the Prosecution was pursuing a live lead: at [20], [45].12 This was not a case where there was no basis for the Charge in the first place. The past hardship to the appellant and his family was not relevant and alleged inefficiency of the Prosecution’s investigations carried no weight. Given the very strong public interest in enabling the investigations to be completed, in all the circumstances of the case, the court was satisfied that the DJ had struck the balance correctly when he granted a DNATA: at [47], [48], [49].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
