
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
19 July 2018
Case summary
NTUC Foodfare Co-operative Ltd v SIA
Engineering Co Ltd and another
Civil Appeal No 207 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven Chong):
Outcome: CoA holds airtug operator and employer
liable for losses suffered by Wang Café due to closure of lounge after operator
drove airtug into T2 Building.
1          Civil Appeal No 207 of 2017 was an
appeal by NTUC Foodfare Co-operative Ltd (“NTUC Foodfare”) against the decision
of the High Court Judge in NTUC Foodfare
Co-operative Ltd v SIA Engineering Co Ltd and another [2017] SGHC 250.
Facts
2          The appellant (“NTUC Foodfare”)
operated an outlet of Wang Café (“the Kiosk”) in the transit lounge (“the
Lounge”) on the second level of the Terminal 2 Building of Changi Airport (“the
T2 Building”). The second respondent (“Mr Yap”), an employee of the first
respondent (“SIAEC”), operated airtugs (heavy vehicles used to move aircraft) in
the airport. 
3          Mr Yap failed to keep a proper lookout
while driving an airtug (“the Airtug”) through the underpass baggage handling
area of the T2 Building. The Airtug collided into a pillar supporting the floor
of the Lounge, causing damage to that floor. This led the Building and
Construction Authority to issue a Closure Order over the affected area of the
Lounge. The Kiosk was situated within the affected area. NTUC Foodfare was therefore
unable to operate the Kiosk while the Closure Order was in force, and suffered
loss of profits during this period. Additionally, some equipment at the Kiosk
was damaged due to the closure. 
4          After the Closure Order was lifted,
NTUC Foodfare rebuilt the Kiosk and thereafter resumed business at the Kiosk. 
5          NTUC Foodfare sued the respondents to
recover economic losses allegedly caused by Mr Yap’s negligent operation of the
Airtug. It claimed that Mr Yap owed it a duty of care, breached this duty, and
thereby caused it to suffer various economic losses. It also claimed that SIAEC
was vicariously liable for Mr Yap’s negligence.
6          The Judge dismissed NTUC Foodfare’s
claims on the principal basis that Mr Yap did not owe a duty of care to NTUC
Foodfare. He was therefore not liable to NTUC Foodfare and consequently, SIAEC
was not vicariously liable either. The Judge also held that even if Mr Yap owed
a duty of care to NTUC Foodfare, negligence on his part did not cause NTUC
Foodfare to suffer losses related to the rebuilding of the Kiosk (“the
Rebuilding Losses”).
Decision on appeal
7          The Court of Appeal allowed NTUC
Foodfare’s appeal in part.
8          The court first considered whether
there was physical damage to NTUC Foodfare’s property, an issue arising from the
parties’ submissions. The court held that NTUC Foodfare held a lease of the
premises where the Kiosk was situated (“the Premises”) although the Premises
did not suffer any physical damage (at [33]).
However, this ultimately had no bearing on the outcome of the appeal (at [34]). 
9          The court then applied the test for
the establishment of a duty of care laid down in Spandeck Engineering (S) Pte Ltd v Defence Science & Technology
Agency [2007] 4 SLR(R) 100 (“Spandeck”)
to the facts. It was factually foreseeable that negligent operation of the
Airtug would cause NTUC Foodfare to suffer loss (at [45]). There was sufficient legal proximity between Mr Yap and NTUC
Foodfare for a duty of care to arise (at [46]):
there was physical proximity between the parties, causal proximity between Mr
Yap’s negligence and NTUC Foodfare’s loss, and the proximity factor of
knowledge applied (at [47], [48] and
[50]). There were no policy
considerations militating against recognising a duty of care (at [53]). 
10        The court then addressed the
respondents’ submission that a different test for the establishment of a duty
of care should apply in cases of “relational economic loss”. The court rejected
this submission for reasons of doctrinal coherence (at [60]), and on the basis that there was no compelling normative
justification for factors relied on in the foreign authorities cited by the
respondents to be transposed into Singapore law (at [61] and [78]). The
court therefore found that Mr Yap owed a duty of care to NTUC Foodfare (at [79]). 
11        Finally, on the issue of causation, the
court found that Mr Yap’s negligence did not cause NTUC Foodfare to suffer the
Rebuilding Losses, because the chain of causation was broken by NTUC Foodfare’s
decision to rebuild the Kiosk (at [83]).

12        The Court of Appeal therefore allowed
the appeal in part, holding that Mr Yap was liable in negligence for loss of
profits sustained by NTUC Foodfare during the closure of the Lounge and the
cost of repairing or replacing the damaged equipment, and that SIAEC was
vicariously liable for the same sum (at [84]).

This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
