

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


16 July 2018


Case summary


Adri Anton Kalangie v Public Prosecutor [2018] SGCA 40 


Criminal Appeal No 34 of 2017 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):



Outcome: CoA held that the doctrine of prospective overruling did
not apply to its decision in Suventher which laid down a
sentencing framework for the importation of cannabis


The material facts


1 The appellant was recruited by a drug syndicate to assist in the
transportation of drugs between China and Indonesia. In early 2016, the
appellant left Singapore for Guangzhou and received 43 pellets of
methamphetamine on arrival. He ingested some of the pellets and inserted
the rest into his body and in various parts of his clothes. He then
departed Guangzhou for Singapore, intending to transit in Singapore    en route to Jakarta. However, he missed his connecting flight and
decided to remain in the transit hall at Changi Airport. During this
period, he confessed to a customer service officer that he was in
possession of drugs and was thereafter arrested by the authorities.


2 Subsequently, 43 pellets were recovered from the appellant.
Investigations revealed that they contained not less than 275.44g of
methamphetamine. The street price for the drugs was estimated to be around
S$62,495. According to the appellant, he was promised IDR$16m (around
S$1,648) to deliver these pellets from Guangzhou to Jakarta. He admitted
that he knew the pellets contained methamphetamine. He also admitted to
having knowingly imported methamphetamine into Singapore.


3 The appellant pleaded guilty to one count of importation of 43 pellets
containing not less than 249.99g of methamphetamine under s 7 of the MDA,
punishable under s 33(1) of the same Act. The High Court judge (“the
Judge”) below sentenced the appellant to 25 years’ imprisonment and 15
strokes of the cane, on the basis of a sentencing framework for the
importation of methamphetamine extrapolated from the Court of Appeal’s
earlier decision in Suventher Shanmugam v Public Prosecutor [2017]
2 SLR 115 (“Suventher”) which had laid down a sentencing framework
for the importation of cannabis.


4 On appeal, the two issues were (a) whether the doctrine of prospective
overruling applied to Suventher such as to foreclose the
extrapolation and application of the sentencing framework developed in that
decision to the present case, and (b) whether the sentence imposed by the
Judge warranted appellate intervention.






 


Decision on appeal


5 The appeal was dismissed. The Judge did not err in sentencing the
appellant on the basis of a sentencing framework adapted from    Suventher. Applying the adapted sentencing framework, the sentence
of 25 years’ imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane imposed was
unimpeachable and was not manifestly excessive.


The legal framework 


6 The central idea of the doctrine of prospective overruling is the court’s
power to limit the temporal effect of its judicial pronouncement, usually
by declaring that it would come into effect only prospectively from a
particular date of reference (at [31]).


7 It is only in an exceptional case that the court may exercise its
discretion to invoke the doctrine of prospective overruling. This
represents the appropriate balance of the tension between retroactivity and
prospectivity in this jurisdiction, and is consistent with the approach
taken in most other Commonwealth jurisdictions (at [39]).


8 The doctrine of prospective overruling should only be invoked in
circumstances where a departure from the ordinary retroactivity of a
judgment is necessary to avoid serious and demonstrable injustice to the
parties or to the administration of justice (at [40]).


9 Judicial pronouncements are by default retroactive in nature. Thus, as a
general rule, until and unless the appropriate appellate court explicitly
states that a judicial pronouncement is to take effect only prospectively,
that pronouncement should presumptively be taken as being unbounded by time
(at [43]).


10 The onus of establishing that there are grounds to limit the retroactive
effect of a decision should ordinarily be on whoever seeks to do so (at [    44]).


11 In relation to judgments establishing or clarifying a sentencing
framework or guideline, the effect of holding that the doctrine of
prospective overruling applies to such a judgment is that the new
sentencing framework laid down should ordinarily apply to all offenders who
are sentenced after the delivery of the decision in question, regardless of
when they had committed the offence (at [46]). This approach focuses on the
date of sentencing (as opposed to the date of commission of the offence or
the date of conviction) as the general date of reference to determine the
applicability of the new sentencing framework (at [49]).


12 In relation to sentencing guideline judgments, it would ordinarily only
be the court that is establishing or clarifying the new sentencing
framework or guideline that can pronounce on the prospectivity of that
judgment (at [65]). This will likely refer to an appellate court, that is,
the High Court sitting in its appellate capacity or the Court of Appeal (at
[67]).


Application to the facts


13 This court was not the appropriate court to consider the prospectivity
of Suventher. Furthermore, even if the doctrine of prospective
overruling applied to Suventher, that only affected the offender
in Suventher and did not concern the appellant (at [    73]).


14 In any event, the doctrine of prospective overruling should not apply to    Suventher. The central proposition in Suventher and the
derived guidelines and analyses had been part of Singapore’s jurisprudence
at least since a High Court decision about two years earlier (at [    74]). Given the decisions that had been released since
that time, Suventher could not be said to have introduced a
significant or unforeseeable change in the law (at [75]–[    76]).


15 Furthermore, the appellant had in fact imported a quantity of drugs
which would have warranted the imposition of capital punishment, even
though he was eventually charged by the Prosecution with a reduced quantity
which fell below the capital threshold. In this context, the appellant
cannot claim to have relied on the pre-Suventher state of law (at
[77]).


16 It was not a mitigating factor that the pellets carried by the appellant
were not intended for the Singapore market (at [84]).


17 Applying the sentencing framework adapted from Suventher, and
taking into consideration the operative sentencing factors in this case,
the sentence of 25 years’ imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane imposed
by the Judge was unimpeachable and was not manifestly excessive (at [    85]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


