
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
9 July 2018
Case summary
Wibowo Boediono v Cristian Priwisata Yacob [2018] SGCA 38
Civil Appeals Nos 23, 24, 36 and 37 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith Prakash):
1          These appeals arose out of two suits commenced in the High Court in 2012 by connected Indonesian parties to recover certain sums of money and an apartment unit that were allegedly transferred as a result of fraud practised on the plaintiffs by three of the defendants. The other defendants were solicitors whose alleged negligence allowed the main fraudsters to succeed in the fraud.
2          In the first action, the plaintiffs were Cristian Priwisata Yacob (“Mr Yacob”) and his business partner Denny Suriadinata (“Mr Suriadinata”). The defendants were Wibowo Boediono (“Mr Boediono”) and his wife Koh Teng Teng Isabelle (“Mdm Koh”) (together “the Boedionoes”). The first action concerned the payment of money to Mr Boediono for the purpose of investment and also the purchase of a car.
3          The second action was started by Mr Yacob and his wife, Nila Susilawaty (“Mdm Susilawaty”) (together “the Yacobs”), to recover an apartment unit in Singapore (the “Apartment”) that they had apparently transferred to Mr Boediono’s father, Bodiono Kweh (“Mr Kweh”). The defendants in the second action were, in addition to the Boedionoes and Mr Kweh, two solicitors namely Toh Wee Jin (“Mr Toh”) and Tan Lay Pheng (“Mr Tan”) who did the legal work required to effect the transfer of the Apartment.
4          The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) found for the plaintiffs on all the issues. First, the Judge found that Mr Yacob did not owe Mr Kweh a debt. Therefore the monies transferred by the Yacobs and Mr Suriadinata to Mr Boediono were not to repay any debt but to purchase a car on Mr Yacob’s behalf and as part of the joint investment. Secondly, the Judge found that the Boedionoes and Mr Kweh fraudulently procured the transfer of the Apartment to Mr Kweh. Thirdly, the Judge found that Mr Toh and Mr Tan had each breached his duty of care. They failed to verify their clients’ identities and instructions before facilitating the transfer of the Apartment.
5          The Court of Appeal allowed the defendants’ appeal in part.
The appeal against the Judge’s findings that the payments made in the first action were for the car and the joint investment
6          The Court allowed the appeal against the Judge’s finding that Mr Yacob did not owe Mr Kweh a debt. The Judge paid insufficient regard to the documentary evidence which showed that Mr Yacob was indebted to Mr Kweh. This evidence comprised a cheque issued for $1.793m and a note in Bahasa Indonesia that accompanied the cheque, which explained that the cheque could be encashed to satisfy the debt if the Apartment was not transferred to do so. In light of this documentary evidence, the oral testimony12          of the parties and the fact that no other witnesses were called to testify were not enough to displace the prima facie inference that Mr Yacob was indebted to Mr Kweh ([49]–[69]).
7          The Court also allowed the appeal against the Judge’s finding that Mr Yacob’s payments of $100,000 and $140,100 to Mr Boediono were meant for the latter to purchase a car on behalf of the former. The Judge’s finding that the parties met before the first payment of $100,000 was undermined by the inconsistencies in the testimonies of the Yacobs. Because the parties only met after the first payment was made, the Court found it untenable that Mr Yacob would have transferred $100,000 to a virtual stranger and was comfortable in allowing this virtual stranger to handle such a large amount of money on his behalf and to buy a car for him. And if the initial $100,000 was not used to purchase a car on Mr Yacob’s behalf, it was even more unlikely that the subsequent $140,100 was combined with the car that belonged to Mr Boediono to get another car for Mr Yacob alone. Rather, the more convincing explanation was that Mr Yacob had transferred the sums of money to satisfy his debt to Mr Boediono’s father, whom he knew well at that time ([72]–[91]).
8          In coming to this conclusion, the Court also considered significant that Mr Yacob did not act as a typical car buyer would and that Mdm Susilawaty had changed her testimony about when she had first driven the car without proper explanation. Although Mr Yacob tendered into evidence an SMS showing that Mr Yacob was meant to pay Mdm Koh a sum of money and that she would use the money to pay the insurance costs and the road tax for the car, the Court was unable to give full weight to the SMS because Mr Yacob did not put into evidence the other SMS messages that had been exchanged ([92]–[102]).
9          The Court upheld the Judge’s finding that $607,700 from Mr Yacob and a total of $624,570.19 from Mr Suriadinata were made to the Boedionoes pursuant to a joint investment. The email correspondence between the parties suggested that the payments were made pursuant to a joint investment plan. However, the Court allowed the appeal against the Judge’s finding that Mdm Koh was a party to the joint investment agreement because she was not part of the email correspondence. Although she was a joint holder of the account into which the money was paid, her uncontroverted evidence was that she left money matters to her husband. And although she was designated as one of the joint owners of the properties, no units were purchased in the names of any of the parties ([103]–[117]).
The appeal against the Judge’s findings that the transfer of the Apartment was fraudulently procured and that the Boedionoes and Mr Kweh were parties to the fraud
10        In the court below, the Yacobs had taken alternative positions in relation to the authenticity of the documents that were used to obtain the transfer. Their first position was that their ostensible signatures on the transfer documents were not in fact theirs and were forgeries. In the alternative, they asserted that the signatures were theirs but that such signatures had been procured by fraud. The Court found that the two positions were inconsistent and that it was not open to the Yacobs to maintain both without any reflection on the creditability of their case ([124]–[138]).
11        The Court considered both the allegations of fraud and forgery. The Court upheld the Judge’s finding that there was insufficient evidence of forgery. The Yacobs’ expert evidence pertained only to the Letter of Authority and did not extend to the other transfer documents ([139]).
12        However, the Court allowed the appeal against the Judge’s finding that the Yacobs’ signatures on the transfer documents were procured by fraud. While the Judge’s reasoning focused on why the Boedionoes’ version of events did not stand up to scrutiny, this wrongly placed the burden on the Boedionoes to prove their version of events. As the plaintiffs, the Yacobs bore the burden of proving that their signatures were procured by fraud, and any doubt should have been resolved in favour of the Boedionoes ([140]–[141]).
13        In any event, the Court found that the Yacobs did not discharge their burden of proof. Some of the transfer documents did not exist at the time of the meetings in June 2011, which meant that the signatures on those documents could not have been procured fraudulently from the Yacobs during the meetings. Further, the Yacobs contradicted each other in relation to whether they were made to sign blank pages or only pages with blank lines, and as to the sequence which they signed the pages ([143]–[152]).
The appeal against the Judge’s finding that the two solicitors were negligent in allowing the fraud to be perpetrated
14        Given the Court’s finding that the transfer of the Apartment to Mr Kweh was not procured by fraud, the Yacobs’ claim against Mr Toh and Mr Tan in the tort of negligence naturally fell away. The Court allowed the appeals by the two solicitors ([155]).
15        Nevertheless, the Court observed that the applicable rules to such situations are the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules (Cap 161, R 1, 2010 Rev Ed) as supplemented by Practice Direction (Paragraph 1 of 2015) (and Practice Direction 1 of 2008 prior thereto). These rules do not prohibit solicitors from relying on notarised documents and in fact envisage that solicitors may do so in certain situations. However, the rules do not explain when or how solicitors may do so ([161]–[166]).
16        The Court observed that a solicitor is entitled to presume, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that a document which on its face appears to have been regularly notarised has, in fact, been properly notarised. However, this presumption of notarisation does not hold when either the face of the document or the circumstances of the notarisation would raise a red flag in the mind of a reasonable solicitor. Where such a red flag pops up, the solicitor must take adequate steps to verify the identity and instructions of the client and the identity of the notary public. The solicitor would only be able to rely on the notarised document to discharge his duty of care if he had taken adequate steps. However, relying on the notarised document would not inevitably mean that the solicitor could discharge his duty of care ([167]–[177]).
17        In this particular case, Mr Toh and Mr Tan should have been put on notice by the red flag that the counterparties to the transaction who stood to gain the most handled all the documents and communication. The solicitors did not do enough to lay those suspicions to rest. Simply attempting to contact their clients through email addresses and phone numbers that the counterparties themselves had provided was manifestly inadequate. Accordingly, if the issue had been live, the Court would have found that neither Mr Toh nor Mr Tan took adequate steps to verify their clients’ identities and instructions although they should have been put on alert by the circumstances ([179]–[188]).
18        Accordingly, the appeal was allowed in part.
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
