

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


3 July 2018


Case summary



Ng Siok Poh (administratrix of the estate of Lim Lian Chiat, deceased)
and another v Sim Lian-Koru Bena JV Pte Ltd

[2018] SGCA 35


Civil Appeal No 130 of 2017



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon
Leong):



The Court of Appeal dismisses property owner’s appeal for developer of
next-door condo to pay for micro-pile underpinning to rectify tilted house.
Developer is to pay for renovations to rectify appearance of tilt only and
compensate for loss of amenity in the interim.


Background to the appeal
1      The respondent is the developer of a condominium known as The Amery. In
2009, the excavation to build the basement carpark of The Amery caused the
soil around the neighbouring property (“the Property”) to shift, and the
Property to tilt towards the excavation site. The Property was built in the
1970s by the second appellant’s father and is of immense sentimental value
to his family. The second appellant and two of his siblings continue to
reside in the Property.
2     In March 2014, the appellants commenced suit alleging that the
respondent was liable in tort for private nuisance and negligence
that caused damage to the Property while constructing The Amery. On
14 August 2014, interlocutory judgment was entered by consent, with
all damages to be assessed and all issues relating to causation,
damages, cost and interest to be reserved.
       
3     After two tranches of assessment of damages, the High Court Judge
(“the Judge’) decided that the appropriate measure of damages was
the costs of reinstating the Property. The costs of reinstatement
were to be assessed based on the costs of aesthetic works that
would remove the appearance of a tilt from the Property (“the
Aesthetics Method”), and not the significantly higher costs of
micro-pile underpinning works to lift up the Property, reinforce
the foundation and set the Property upright so as to remove the
actual tilt altogether (“the Underpinning Method”). The Judge did
not award the appellants damages for loss of amenity because the
Aesthetics Method would eliminate any perception of the tilt and
would thereby directly address the loss of amenity suffered by the
appellants arising from the sense of a tilt.
       
4     The appellants appealed, contending that damages should be assessed
based on the Underpinning Method. Alternatively, they claimed
damages for loss of amenity and damages for certain items of
aesthetic works that were refused by the Judge. They also claimed
costs and disbursements of the second tranche of the trial, which
the Judge had refused.
        

Decision on appeal
5     The Court of Appeal upheld the Judge’s decision to award damages
based on the Aesthetics Method. It reasoned that the choice of the
mode of reinstatement is part of a broader inquiry into the
suitable measure of damages. The governing principle in this
context is one of objective reasonableness. On the facts, the Judge
had given due consideration to the Property’s special value, which
did not justify a complete reinstatement at all costs. Second, it
was not open to the appellants to now contend that the Property’s
utility has been diminished as it was not part of their case below
that the tilt hindered their ability to carry out renovations.
Third, based on the evidence adduced, the court was not persuaded
that it would be reasonable to require the respondent to bear the
cost of rectifying the actual tilt using the Underpinning Method.
In particular, there was no convincing evidence of the tilt
increasing and the Property was structurally safe. (            [35], [44], [47], [59])
        
6     Seeing as the risk of damage (however improbable on the evidence
presented) could cause serious harm if it materialised, the Court
of Appeal considered whether to remit the case to the Judge so as
to allow the appellants to adduce evidence of the view of the
Building and Construction Authority (“BCA”) on the safety and
stability of the Property and the BCA’s recommended course of
action. However, the court concluded that the issue could not now
be remitted to the Judge in the interests of finality. (            [56]–[58])
        
7     In relation to damages for loss of amenity, the Court of Appeal
affirmed the Judge’s decision not to award damages for prospective
loss of amenity since the Aesthetics Method would address the
second appellant’s discomfort with the sense that the Property is
tilting. However, the court awarded the second appellant $50,000 in
damages for past loss of amenity from 2009 until such time that the
Property is reinstated by the Aesthetics Method. (            [65]–[66])
       
8     In relation to the quantification of damages pursuant to the
Aesthetics Method, the Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s
decision, except that it allowed recovery for the cost of replacing
the doors which had been chamfered to fit into the tilted door
frames. ([69])
        
9     Finally, the Court of Appeal awarded the second appellant the costs
of the whole trial, including the second tranche. Although the
appellants failed to prove during the second tranche that the
Property continued to tilt further, the evidence adduced completely
changed the tenor of both parties’ cases and the Judge’s reasoning,
and shifted the focus of the inquiry to the significance of
exceeding the safety limits set by the BCA and whether a safety
reserve had to be restored. Thus, the attempt to re-open the
evidence was not unmeritorious. ([73])
        

 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


