
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
27 June 2018
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v Chia Kee Chen and another appeal [2018] SGCA 30 
Criminal Appeals No. 40 and 41 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: CoA upholds conviction for murder; allows Prosecution’s appeal against sentence and imposes death sentence in place of life imprisonment.
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


Criminal Appeal No 41 of 2017 was dismissed. The court held that the accused person, Chia Kee Chen (“Chia”), shared a common intention with his accomplice Febri Irwansyah Djatmiko (“Febri”) to inflict the fatal craniofacial injuries on the deceased. This was because Chia was the mastermind behind the plan to abduct and assault the deceased; had recruited Febri solely for the purpose of assisting him in this plan; did not at any point in time direct or instruct Febri to stop the assault; and voluntarily participated in the assault on the Deceased. Thus, the court dismissed Chia’s appeal against conviction: at [61]–[95].


Criminal Appeal No 40 of 2017 was allowed. The court disregarded the psychiatric report which opined that Chia was suffering from major depressive disorder at the time of the offence, on the basis that this report did not meet the minimum standards of expert evidence: at [125]–[131]. The court then held that Chia’s actions exhibited such viciousness and blatant disregard for the life of the deceased as to outrage the feelings of the community. Thus, the court allowed the Prosecution’s appeal against sentence, imposing the death sentence in place of the term of life imprisonment: at [135]–[143]. 


 
Background to the appeal
1          Criminal Appeal No 41 of 2017 was an appeal by Chia Kee Chen (“Chia”) against his conviction for the murder of Dexmon Chua Yizhi (“the Deceased”). Criminal Appeal No 40 of 2017 was the Prosecution’s appeal against sentence, by which it sought the imposition of the death sentence.
Facts
2          On 28 December 2013, the Deceased was abducted from the car park near his home and forced into a van. He was then severely assaulted, with numerous blunt force blows inflicted to his head and face. Almost every bone from the bottom of his eye socket to his lower jaw was fractured. His body was then dumped in the Singapore Armed Forces live firing area in Lim Chu Kang. On 31 December 2013, Chia was arrested in connection with this offence.
3          In the High Court, the judge convicted Chia of one count of murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the PC”) in furtherance of a common intention shared with Febri Irwansyah Djatmiko (“Febri”), punishable under s 302(2) read with s 34 of the PC. The judge sentenced Chia to a term of life imprisonment. Both Chia and the Prosecution appealed.
Decision on appeal
4          The Court of Appeal dismissed Chia’s appeal and allowed the Prosecution’s appeal.
Chia’s appeal
5          The crux of the case for the Defence was that Chia did not share a common intention with Febri to inflict the craniofacial injuries on the Deceased which were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. Chia only intended to abduct the Deceased and to cause hurt, or at most, grievous hurt. On the other hand, Febri alone had the intention to inflict the fatal injuries. The Defence also argued that there was a possibility that Febri had single-handedly inflicted those injuries on the Deceased when they were alone in the cabin of the van. As it was not part of Chia’s plan for Febri to have assaulted the Deceased in the way that he did, the Defence submitted that Febri had exceeded the scope of their common intention (at [43]).
6          The Court of Appeal observed that for the purposes of establishing a conviction for murder under s 300(c) read with s 34 of the PC, it is not necessary in every case to identify the mortal blow, nor attribute it to any particular offender, so long as the court is satisfied that the offenders shared a common intention to inflict the particular injury or injuries that were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. It was therefore irrelevant whether Chia or Febri had struck the mortal blow, or whether Febri had struck more blows than Chia, so long as they shared a common intention to inflict the fatal craniofacial injuries on the Deceased (at [86]–[89]). 
7          On the facts, the Court found that Chia and Febri did share such a common intention. To begin, Chia was the mastermind of the plan to abduct the Deceased and to beat him up severely. His operative motive was to exact revenge on the Deceased for having carried on an affair with his wife. Chia recruited Febri and another person, Chua Leong Aik, to assist him in this plan. There was therefore an agreement between Chia and Febri at least to beat up the Deceased severely (at [62]–[66] and [90]). Next, it was clear from the evidence relating to the assault in the cabin of the van that they shared a common intention to inflict the fatal craniofacial injuries. Febri initiated the assault and Chia actively assisted by restraining the Deceased’s legs. Even when Chia saw that Febri’s assault had become more frenzied and ferocious, Chia did not direct or instruct Febri to stop although he was in a position to do so. Beyond that, Chia joined in the assault by asking Febri to hand him the hammer and used it to hit the Deceased’s forehead. Chia then returned the hammer and enabled Febri to continue the assault. The only inference that could be drawn was that Chia, as the mastermind, wanted and intended for Febri to inflict the craniofacial injuries on the Deceased that he did (at [71]–[80] and [92]–[93]). Finally, Chia admitted in various statements to the police that he wanted the Deceased dead. The Court therefore rejected the submission that Chia’s intention was limited only to causing hurt and that it was Febri who exceeded their commonly-intended course (at [94]–[95]). 
8          Accordingly, the Court dismissed Chia’s appeal and upheld the conviction. 
Prosecution’s appeal
9          The central issue was whether Chia’s actions exhibited such viciousness and such a blatant disregard for the life of the Deceased so as to outrage the feelings of the community. The Prosecution submitted that this was the case. The Defence claimed otherwise and raised, as a mitigating factor, the fact that Chia suffered from major depressive disorder (“MDD”) at the time of the offence in 2013. The Defence sought to rely on the psychiatric report of Dr John Bosco Lee (“the Lee Report”) in support of this diagnosis.
10        The Court observed that in assessing the relevance of a mental condition, the key question is whether there is a causal link between the medical condition that has been diagnosed, and the factors that go towards the exercise of the court’s discretion in deciding whether to impose the death sentence. This presupposes that there is a recognised medical condition that the court is able to accept on the evidence (at [112]–[114]).
11        In the present case, although the Lee Report contained, on its face, a diagnosis of a recognised medical condition, the overall quality of the Lee Report was so lacking that it failed to even meet the minimum standards expected of an expert report. It was entirely devoid of reasoning and was purely conclusory in nature. There was no explanation of how the mood and behavioural changes allegedly observed in Chia met the diagnoses of MDD. There was also no explanation for the critical conclusion that MDD “affected” or “contributed much to” Chia’s mental state around the time of the offence. The Lee Report was also ambiguous, partisan and contrived at parts. The Court thus entirely disregarded it (at [125]–[131]). Even if the Lee Report were accepted as it stood, it would not have met the threshold of relevance as it did not contain anything which established the necessary causal link between the diagnosis of MDD and the factors which go towards the imposition of the death sentence (at [132]).
12        The Court then concluded that Chia’s actions warranted the imposition of the death sentence. First, he was the mastermind of the plan to abduct and assault the Deceased, and demonstrated a high degree of planning and premeditation. Febri inflicted the injuries on the Deceased pursuant to Chia’s plan. Chia did not direct or instruct Febri to stop although he could have. In the circumstances, Chia was not an ordinary “secondary offender” in the sense that his actual role and participation in the attack was limited (at [136]–[137] and [139]). Second, the attack on the Deceased was vicious and brutal, as evidenced by the extensive fractures in his skull, and the bloodstains found at the car park and in the cabin of the van (at [140]). Finally, Chia exhibited a blatant disregard for the life of the Deceased. This was most evident from his admissions that he wanted to torture the Deceased and make him suffer as much as possible before dying (at [141]).
13         Accordingly, the Court allowed the Prosecution’s appeal and substituted the sentence of life imprisonment with the sentence of death.
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
