
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
26 June 2018
Case summary
Public Prosecutor v Raveen Balakrishnan [2018] SGHC 148
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9330 of 2017/01 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: HC held that individual sentences for a multiple offender should, as a general rule, be run consecutively, subject to the totality principle. 
The material facts
1          The respondent pleaded guilty to two charges in the District Court. The first offence was for voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means under s 324 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“PC”). The respondent assaulted the victim with a knife and cut him on the right cheek. The injury will leave a permanent scar on the victim’s face. The second offence was for rioting under s 147 of the PC. The respondent, while on bail for having committed the first offence, relied on his status as the older friend of his companions and actively encouraged his companions to confront and assault a different victim. During the assault, the respondent was the most aggressive of the assailants and punched and kicked the victim even when he had fallen onto the ground. The respondent’s companions were issued 12-month conditional warnings for rioting by the relevant authorities. 
2          The district judge below agreed with the Prosecution’s position as regards the individual sentences, but ordered the sentences to run concurrently to derive an aggregate sentence of 3.5 years’ imprisonment and 9 strokes of the cane. Amongst other things, the district judge reasoned that concurrent sentences were justified because the respondent was not beyond hope for reform and rehabilitation and had seen a “decrease in rate of offending” from his antecedents. 
3          The Prosecution appealed, arguing that the district judge should have ordered the two individual sentences to run consecutively. 
Decision on appeal
4          The appeal was allowed. The individual sentences imposed by the district judge were upheld. However, the sentences were ordered to run consecutively and the aggregate sentence, taking into account the totality principle, was raised to 4.5 years’ imprisonment and 9 strokes of the cane. 
Sentencing framework 
5          As a general rule, a multiple offender who has committed unrelated offences should be separately punished for each offence, and this should be achieved by an order that the individual sentences run consecutively (at [41]). This general but displaceable rule balances the need for consistency and flexibility, and is preferred as a matter of principle and policy (at [48]). 
6          The operation of the general rule of consecutive sentences for unrelated offences is subject to three qualifications: the totality principle (at [65]), the fact that the rule is neither invariable nor mandatory and may be departed from (at [66]), and the need to give effect to any statutory provision that abridges the operation of the general rule (at [67]). 
7          The question of whether the offences are “unrelated” is not novel and in any event has to be answered in the application of the one-transaction rule. To say that two offences are “unrelated” means that they are not “part of a single transaction”; conversely, to describe them as “part of a single transaction” means they are not “unrelated”. The two inquiries are two sides of the same coin (at [69]).
8          The totality principle should ordinarily apply with greater force in cases that involve longer aggregate sentences. This would include situations, for instance, where the offender is to be sentenced for numerous offences in a single sitting of the court, or where the individual sentences are themselves relatively lengthy (at [79]). Sentencing courts in applying the totality principle should bear in mind that the longer the aggregated sentence, the greater the risk of a disproportionate sentence (at [80]). 
9          The central concern of the rule against double counting is that a sentencing factor should be given only its due weight in the sentencing analysis and nothing more (at [91]). The rule applies to both aggravating and mitigating factors, and it may arise in cases dealing with a single offence as it does in cases involving multiple offending (at [92]). However, it does not necessarily violate the rule if a fact constituting a mitigating factor is again taken into account in the application of the totality principle even though it has been given effect to elsewhere in the sentencing analysis (at [93]). 
Application to the facts
10        There was no reason to suggest, and indeed no such submission was made, that the district judge had erred in imposing the individual sentences that he arrived at. While the individual sentences were each perhaps on the high side as compared to some of the precedents, they simply reflected the gravity and the circumstances of the offences (at [101]).
11        The two offences were plainly separate and unrelated: they took place on different occasions about six months apart, at different locations, and involved different victims. There was no unity of purpose or design between the offences. Hence, the sentences should presumptively have been ordered to run consecutively (at [102]). The reasons given by the district judge for not doing so did not stand up to scrutiny (at [103]). 
12        There was no double counting of the aggravating factors because the true basis for running the sentences consecutively was the fact that the offences were separate and unrelated (at [107]). 
13        A strict addition of the two individual sentences would give an aggregate sentence of 5.5 years’ imprisonment and 9 strokes of the cane. Having regard to the totality principle, an aggregate custodial sentence of 4.5 years’ imprisonment would be appropriate in light of the overall criminality presented. The caning sentence imposed was to remain in respect of both offences (at [108]). 
14        The fact that a “co-offender” (in the loose sense of the term) has been issued a warning by the relevant authorities is not an indicator of the co-offender’s guilt or degree of culpability, and therefore cannot be used as the basis to calibrate the severity of the offender’s judicially determined sentence on account of the principle of parity. For this reason, the respondent could not as a matter of principle rely on the warnings issued to his companions to argue that he should receive something “lighter” (at [115]). 
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
