
 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
1 June 2018
Case summary
JTrust Asia Pte Ltd v Group Lease Holdings Pte Ltd & Ors
Civil Appeal No 46 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):
The Court of Appeal holds that the presence of a collateral or ulterior purpose in seeking Mareva relief is sufficient to deny a plaintiff such relief even if he has established a good arguable case on his claim and demonstrated a real risk that the defendant will dissipate his assets to frustrate any eventual judgment.
Background


JTrust Asia Pte Ltd (“JTrust”) is a Singapore company in the investment business. Between March 2015 and September 2017, it invested some US$210m in a Thai company called Group Lease Public Company Limited (“Group Lease Thailand”) under three investment agreements with the company and in reliance on the company’s annual and quarterly accounts. During that time, Group Lease Thailand’s chairman was one Mr Mitsuji Konoshita. ([4] and [8]–[9])


In October 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand issued a news release stating that under Mr Konoshita’s direction, Group Lease Thailand’s Singapore subsidiary, Group Lease Holdings Pte Ltd (“Group Lease Singapore”), had issued sham loans to four Cyprus companies (“the Cyprus Borrowers”), and to a Singapore company called Cougar Pacific Pte Ltd (“Cougar”), all of whom were owned and controlled by Mr Konoshita. The Commission stated that the principal in the loans had been used by these borrowers to repay the interest on the loans to Group Lease Singapore, which was recorded as income in that company’s financial statements, and which in turn contributed to an artificial inflation of Group Lease Thailand’s operating results. ([6] and [13])


After negotiations for a merger between the parent companies of JTrust and Group Lease Thailand failed in end 2017, JTrust investigated the claims in the Commission’s report. Two investigative reports were produced which stated that Group Lease Singapore’s loans to the borrowers served no discernible commercial purpose, which suggested that a round-tripping scheme was in place to inflate Group Lease Thailand’s profits to deceive JTrust into investing in the company. In December 2017, JTrust brought an action against Group Lease Singapore, Mr Konoshita, Cougar and the Cyprus Borrowers, alleging that they had conspired to defraud JTrust of its investment in Group Lease Thailand. JTrust also applied ex parte for and obtained from the duty judge domestic Mareva injunctions against the first three parties pursuant to its action. JTrust later applied to vary the injunctions such that they be given worldwide effect, and the three parties applied to discharge the injunctions. ([13], [17]–[18] and [31]–[32])
The High Court’s decision


The High Court Judge discharged the injunctions. He did not think that JTrust had established a good arguable case on its action, mainly because Group Lease Thailand had not been named a defendant in the action even though it was the counterparty to the three investment agreements whose validity appeared to be the main issue in dispute. He also did not think that JTrust had shown a real risk that the respondents would dissipate their assets. Finally, he appeared to take into account, among other things, the fact that JTrust failed to disclose to the duty judge the fact that it had already obtained a worldwide Mareva injunction against Mr Konoshita in the British Virgin Islands (“BVI”). ([33]–[35])


JTrust appealed, arguing essentially that the Judge had failed to appreciate the fact that there was objective evidence for JTrust’s action and had, in particular, placed excessive weight on the omission of Group Lease Thailand as a defendant in the action. The respondents defended the Judge’s assessment of the facts, and submitted further that JTrust’s application for Mareva relief was brought to financially cripple the Group Lease group of companies to force the merger which it had been unable to negotiate and was, in the light of its oppressive purpose, an abuse of the court’s process. ([22], [30] and [93])
The Court of Appeal’s decision


The Court of Appeal allowed JTrust’s appeal, reinstating the domestic Mareva injunctions that had been granted against Group Lease Singapore, Mr Konoshita and Cougar, and expanding the injunctions against Group Lease Singapore and Cougar to worldwide Mareva injunctions. ([3] and [122])
Good arguable case


The Court was satisfied that JTrust had shown a good arguable case on its conspiracy action. There was objective basis for the view that the respondents had conspired to create a round-tripping scheme to defraud JTrust into investing into Group Lease Thailand. The fact that Group Lease Thailand had not been named as a defendant in the conspiracy action was not significant because it was not the validity per se of the investment agreements in question that was in dispute but the purpose for which they were entered into, and because JTrust’s case was that Mr Konoshita was the mastermind behind the conspiracy, and he had been named as a defendant. ([39], [47] and [49])
Real risk of dissipation


The Court was also satisfied that there was a real risk that the respondents would dissipate their assets to frustrate the enforcement of an anticipated judgment in JTrust’s action. In particular, there was objective evidence that Mr Konoshita had engaged in fraudulent dealing in substantial sums of money, and this was dishonest conduct which had a real and material bearing on the risk of dissipation. Mr Konoshita’s connections to Group Lease Singapore and Cougar meant that those companies were tainted by his dishonesty as well. Also contributing to the risk of dissipation were the fact that the respondents’ assets were capable of being dissipated with ease, the fact that Mr Konoshita did not appear to be based in Singapore, and the fact that Group Lease Singapore and Cougar were owned by foreign companies. ([66], [74], [78], [80] and [81])
Clean hands


The Court rejected the respondents’ submission that JTrust was seeking equitable protection of a right which it had obtained unconscionably in that it was seeking to recover moneys which had allegedly originated from investment funds which the investor companies, known as the Weston Entities, had sought successfully to recover through proceedings in Mauritius. The respondents failed to highlight that a Tokyo court had issued a contrary ruling, and in any event, the Weston Entities had not sought any tracing remedy in respect of those funds in the Mauritian courts. The Court also rejected the respondents’ submission that JTrust had failed to provide the duty judge full and frank disclosure of any material facts such as to justify the refusal or discharge of the injunctions. ([86]–[88] and [91]–[92])
Abuse of process


The Court held that the presence of a collateral or ulterior purpose in seeking Mareva relief is sufficient to deny a plaintiff such relief even if he has established a good arguable case on his claim and demonstrated a real risk that the defendant will dissipate his assets to frustrate any eventual judgment. The court must consider whether the plaintiff truly has no genuine interest in obtaining a legal remedy through the underlying action, and decide whether, in all the circumstances, his predominant purpose behind the application is properly to be regarded as collateral or ulterior, and thereby renders the application an abuse of the court’s process. The court must assess the cogency of the evidence adduced to support the allegation and the substance of the purpose that is said to be collateral or ulterior. Just because the injunction will have an inevitable financial impact on the defendant does not mean that the plaintiff has a predominant collateral purpose to cause that impact. Instead, close attention to the circumstantial evidence will often be necessary in order to decide whether it can be inferred that the plaintiff has such a purpose. ([99] and [102])


On the facts, it could not be safely concluded from the evidence that JTrust had applied for Mareva relief in order to bully the Group Lease group of companies into agreeing to a merger. In particular, JTrust’s attempt to negotiate a merger and its knowledge that loans had been extended to the borrower companies were consistent with the idea that JTrust had genuinely decided to investigate the Commission’s claim and later bring an action on the basis of the information obtained. This was therefore not a case in which the court should deny the plaintiff Mareva relief even though it had established a good arguable case and demonstrated a real risk of dissipation. ([107]–[108])


While JTrust did not seek recognition of the worldwide Mareva injunction it had obtained in the BVI against Mr Konoshita, it was in substance doing that by applying here for a fresh domestic injunction against him pursuant to a substantively similar claim, and this ought to be granted as the principal requirements of Mareva relief had been satisfied in relation to him. Although the Court saw no justification for giving that injunction worldwide effect, it rejected the respondents’ argument that JTrust was abusing the court’s process by applying for multiple worldwide Mareva injunctions against them, as no Mareva injunction had been obtained outside Singapore against Group Lease Singapore and Cougar. Indeed, worldwide Mareva injunctions against those two companies were justified because their assets in Singapore fell far short of the value of JTrust’s claim. ([115]–[116] and [118]–[120]) 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.


