
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
22 May 2018
Case summary
Diablo Fortune Inc v Cameron Lindsay Duncan and another                                                       
Civil Appeals No 151 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):
The Court of Appeal held that liens on sub-freights should be characterised as floating charges. The court also commented that it might be appropriate to consider legislative reform to exempt such liens from registration. 
Background
1          The appeal centred on a lien on sub-freights, a type of security commonly found in standard form charterparties. The appellant, Diablo Fortune Inc (“Diablo”), was the shipowner, and the respondents were liquidators of the now-insolvent charterer, Siva Ships International Pte Ltd (“the Company”). In the proceedings below, the liquidators sought to thwart Diablo’s attempt to exercise the lien on sub-freights in the charter entered into between Diablo (“the Lien”) and the Company on the ground that the Lien was a registrable charge, but was void for non-registration. Diablo argued that it was only a contractual right to intercept sub-freights. 
2          The Judge agreed with the liquidators. She favoured the view that the Lien should be construed as an equitable assignment by the charterer by way of security for payment of sums owed to the shipowner. The Judge found that the Lien possessed the characteristics of a floating charge or a charge on book debts. She concluded that the Lien was subject to the registration requirement under ss 131(3)(f) or 131(3)(g) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (“the Companies Act”).
Decision of the court 
 3          After examining the theories put forth by the parties and the amicus curiae, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal and characterised liens on sub-freights as floating charges. The Lien, not having been registered during the applicable period, was void against the liquidators and creditors of the Company. 
The “contractual right of interception” theory 
4          The Court of Appeal rejected the “contractual right of interception” theory as it could not surmount the hurdle posed by the lack of a direct contractual relationship between the shipowner and the sub-charterers. On this view, the lien would be unenforceable for lack of privity. Further, the contractual analysis could not explain why payment to the shipowner would discharge the sub-charterer’s debt to the charterer. ([26]–[29])
 The “floating charge” theory
5.          The Court of Appeal adopted the “floating charge” theory. Under this theory, a lien on sub-freights would create an immediate security interest on the date of the charterparty, and the shipowner (being the lien holder) would have a dormant right to the sub-freights as and when they came into existence (as part of a circulating fund of assets), but the shipowner held no proprietary interest in any particular sub-freights until sums due under the charter went unpaid and the shipowner crystallised the charge by giving notice of the lien. Until that point, the charterer was free to deal with the sub-freights as its own for its own business operations. ([37])
The “agreement to create a charge” theory
6          The amicus, Professor Hans Tjio, put forth a third view that liens on sub-freights should be characterised as agreements to create a charge on a future contingent event (ie, the giving of notice to the sub-charterer upon charterer’s default). ([59])
7          The Court of Appeal rejected this third view for three reasons. First, the language of the Lien was not specific enough to support a construction of it as an agreement to create a charge. Second, agreements to create a charge undermine the system of registration as such agreements only become registrable in the event of a default by the charterer. By then, the charterer would likely be in a parlous financial situation. Allowing the shipowner to impose a charge over the charterer’s sub-freights at that point in time would be tantamount to allowing the shipowner to steal a march on the other creditors, who would be adversely affected if they had dealt with the charterer on an unsecured basis prior to the contingency and without knowledge of the shipowner’s lien. Third, even if liens on sub-freights were agreements to create a charge, it would fall within the definition of “charge” in the Companies Act, and be registrable. Section 4 of the Companies Act defined a “charge” as including “any agreement to give or execute a charge or mortgage whether upon demand or otherwise”. ([61]–[63], [65]–[66])
Conclusion
8          Although there appears to be a strong reaction by the local shipping community to this decision, the result should hardly be surprising given that the decision is entirely in line with the English authorities which were first decided more than three decades ago. Nonetheless, the Court of Appeal recognised that it would be commercially inconvenient to require registration, especially for single-voyage charters or charters for short durations. In addition, companies and their officers may also be exposed to fines or penalties for non-registration under s 132 of the Companies Act. The court posited that in order to maintain Singapore’s competitive edge as a leading maritime hub, the time may be ripe for Parliament to review the current position and consider exempting liens on sub-freights from the registration requirement under s 131 of the Companies Act. ([71]–[72], [77])
9          The court also pointed out that the consequences of non-registration are likely to be muted because when there is an event of default, the shipowner’s first thought would be to suspend performance or exercise its lien over cargo. It would often be more difficult to ascertain the identity and contact details of the sub-charterers. In most cases, the reality is that by the time the shipowner is looking to exercise the lien, it would probably be too late to do so because by then the sub-freights would have been paid over to the charterer. ([76])
 This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
 
