
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
16 May 2018
Case summary
Broadley Construction Pte Ltd v Alacran Design Pte Ltd [2018] SGCA 25 
Civil Appeal No 139 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of Appeal Steven Chong):
Outcome: CoA allows appeal, releasing contractor from liability to pay outstanding debt on the basis of a letter of undertaking absolving it of liability, and clarifies principles of misrepresentation.
 
Background to the appeal
1          This appeal arose from a contract between the appellant, Broadley Construction Pte Ltd (“Broadley”) and the respondent, Alacran Design Pte Ltd (“Alacran”). Under this contract, Alacran supplied Broadley with equipment which Broadley used to fulfil its obligations with its main contractor, Singbuild Pte Ltd (“Singbuild”). Broadley began defaulting on payments but signed a letter of undertaking (“the Undertaking”) under which Singbuild would pay the outstanding sum to Alacran on Broadley’s behalf and Broadley would be absolved of all liability to Alacran. Alacran nevertheless sought to claim the outstanding sum from Broadley and the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) allowed this on the basis that Alacran had entered into the Undertaking through Broadley’s fraudulent misrepresentation or its own unilateral mistake. Broadley appealed against this decision.
 
Facts
2          Broadley entered into a contract with Alacran for the supply of equipment. Broadley began defaulting on payments to Alacran because its main contractor, Singbuild, was not paying Broadley. Broadley’s managing director, Mr Govin, and Alacran’s former business development manager, Mr Lin, met twice to discuss Broadley’s payment of the outstanding sum. At the second meeting, Broadley and Alacran asserted that they came to an agreement which was reflected in the Undertaking, but provided two different accounts. Alacran stated that Mr Govin had proposed that an undertaking be issued to authorise Singbuild to pay the outstanding sum directly to Alacran from the money that Singbuild owed Broadley. Mr Lin informed Mr Govin that it did not matter who paid the outstanding sum as long as it was paid, but if Singbuild defaulted on the payment, Broadley would remain liable for any outstanding amount. Mr Govin remained silent in response to Mr Lin’s statement. On the other hand, Broadley claimed that Mr Lin and Mr Govin had agreed that Singbuild would pay the outstanding sum on behalf of Broadley in fulfilment of Singbuild’s own debt to Broadley, and Broadley would be absolved of all liability to Alacran. The Judge found that Alacran’s account was more likely. 
3          The Undertaking however expressly stated that Broadley would no longer be liable for the outstanding sum to Alacran. The Judge found that the Undertaking was a contract supported by consideration, but Alacran had entered into the contract on Mr Govin’s misrepresentation, by his silence, that Broadley would remain liable for the outstanding sum if Singbuild did not pay. Alternatively, Alacran had entered into the Undertaking based on its own unilateral mistake that Broadley would remain liable, and Broadley was aware of Alacran’s mistake because of what was agreed during the second meeting. Thus, the Undertaking was not binding and Broadley was still liable to Alacran for the outstanding sum.
 
Decision on appeal
4          The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal. It upheld the Judge’s findings of fact as to the events during the second meeting. However, it found that Alacran was bound by the express terms of the Undertaking because there had been no misrepresentation or unilateral mistake sufficient to vitiate the Undertaking. 
5          In doing so, the Court of Appeal clarified some principles governing misrepresentation. First, silence usually only constitutes a representation in circumstances where the alleged representor has a duty to speak. Such a duty may arise out of the relationship of the parties or other circumstances in which the silence is maintained, and is to be assessed by reference to how a reasonable person would view the silence in those circumstances. In the present case, the parties had been negotiating from opposing positions and had expected that a written agreement would be forthcoming. A reasonable person would not have understood Mr Govin’s silence as unequivocal assent to Mr Lin’s position. ([28]–[30])
6          Second, even if there was a misrepresentation by silence, the representee would need to have been induced by the misrepresentation to enter into the contract. The representee cannot be said to have been so induced where the misrepresentation has already been corrected. In this regard, the representor needs to show that the representee was made aware of the correction prior to the representee’s entry into the contract. In the present case, even if Mr Govin had made a misrepresentation by his silence, this misrepresentation had been dispelled by the express terms of the Undertaking, the draft of which was sent to Mr Lin two days after the second meeting. It was then signed by Broadley and Singbuild at a subsequent site meeting. Mr Lin brought the Undertaking back to his office and signed it separately. The relevant term appeared just above the space for signature. It was incumbent on Mr Lin to read the Undertaking and clarify if he did not understand it. If he chose to sign it without clarification, he did so pursuant to his own assumption that it reflected the agreement at the second meeting, and not in reliance on Mr Govin’s misrepresentation. Therefore, Alacran had not been induced by Broadley’s misrepresentation into entering into the Undertaking. ([33]–[39])
7          Thus, the Court of Appeal held that there was no actionable misrepresentation on the facts. It also held that there was no unilateral mistake in common law or equity sufficient to vitiate the Undertaking. Even if Mr Lin had made a fundamental mistake as to the effect of the Undertaking on Broadley’s liability for the outstanding sum, there was nothing on the evidence that showed that Broadley was aware of this mistake. The evidence showed that it would have instead been entirely reasonable for Mr Govin to have assumed that Mr Lin had read, and was agreeable to, the Undertaking. ([43]–[44])
8          The Court of Appeal thus allowed the appeal.
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
