
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
15 May 2018
Case summary
Chan Lung Kien v Chan Shwe Ching [2018] SGCA 24   
Civil Appeal No 141 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):
The Court of Appeal dismisses an appeal against the High Court’s ruling that a co-owner’s unregistered instrument of declaration of his intention to sever a joint tenancy in registered land was of no effect. Overruling Diaz Priscilla v Diaz Angela [1997] 3 SLR(R) 759 and affirming that the common law does not allow a joint tenant to unilaterally sever a joint tenancy by a declaration of his intention, the Court of Appeal holds that all the steps required by ss 53(5) and (6) of the Land Titles Act must be fully complied with for a joint tenant of registered land to effect severance by a unilateral declaration. 
Background to the appeal
1          This was an appeal by a creditor (“the appellant”) against the High Court’s ruling that his writ of seizure and sale (“WSS”) was ineffective to attach a debtor’s interest in registered land held in a joint tenancy because the joint tenancy had not been severed. 
2          Before the appellant obtained his WSS, the debtor’s husband executed an instrument declaring his intention to sever the joint tenancy over the property in the form approved pursuant to s 53(5) of the Land Titles Act (Cap 157, 2004 Rev Ed) (the “LTA”) and served the instrument on his co-owner, the debtor, by certificate of posting. The debtor’s husband subsequently advertised a “Severance Notice” in the Straits Times, addressed to the debtor, who was apparently untraceable. The instrument of declaration was not registered pursuant to s 53(6) of the LTA.
3          The High Court decided that the acts of the debtor’s husband did not sever the joint tenancy, whether under ss 53(5) and (6) of the LTA or under the common law. On the premise that the interest of a joint tenant cannot be attached and taken in execution under a WSS, the High Court held that the appellant’s WSS was of no effect. ([12])
4          The issues before the Court of Appeal were first, whether a co-owner of registered land who holds his interest as a joint tenant with the other co-owner(s) can, outside of the statutorily provided procedure, unilaterally sever that joint tenancy by a declaration of intention to sever; and second, how the mode of severance provided for by ss 53(5) and (6) of the LTA is to be applied or implemented. It was not disputed that a joint tenant’s interest in jointly held property cannot be attached under a WSS. ([1], [13])
Decision on appeal
5          The Court of Appeal affirmed that under the common law, a unilateral declaration of severance by one joint tenant cannot sever a joint tenancy, no matter how clear and unequivocal the declaration was. The appellant had not provided good reason to depart from the decision of Sivakolunthu Kumarasamy v Shanmugam Nagaiah and another [1987] SLR(R) 702 (“Sivakolunthu”). More importantly, on the basis that Sivakolunthu correctly expressed the law, Parliament had taken legislative action in order to provide a statutory mode of severance by unilateral declaration. ([17], [41]–[42]) 
6          Turning to the statutory regime, the Court of Appeal adopted a plain reading of ss 53(5) and (6) of the LTA. A joint tenant who is desirous of severing his joint tenancy in registered land using the statutory mode must take three steps: (1) execute an instrument of declaration in the approved form; (2) serve this instrument personally or by registered post on every other joint tenant; and (3) register the instrument on the Land-register. Section 53(5) and (6) have to be looked at as a whole and as providing for a single mode of severance which is made up of three steps. ([48], [64])
7          It followed from this construction of ss 53(5) and (6) that the holding in the case of Diaz Priscilla v Diaz Angela [1997] 3 SLR(R) 759 (“Diaz”) could not be supported. Diaz rejected the plain reading of the sub-sections and held that a severance as between the joint tenants themselves would occur on completion of the first two steps in s 53(5) without the third step of registration in s 53(6). The Court of Appeal noted that Diaz had been the subject of some academic comment and acknowledged that the case had given rise to some difficulty and confusion in the law. Although the decision was well-intentioned, Diaz purported to lay down a principle which is at odds with commonly accepted concepts of land law and gave a strained interpretation to ss 53(5) and (6) of the LTA by viewing each of them as a separate mode of severance with an independent legal effect. ([49], [62]–[65])
8          In the present case, since the instrument of declaration executed by the debtor’s husband was not registered, it was not effective at all under the LTA to sever the joint tenancy with the debtor. In any case, the debtor’s husband did not even completely comply with s 53(5) because the instrument was not served by the modes of service specified by s 53(5). Accordingly, the appeal was dismissed. ([66]–[67])
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
