
 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
11 May 2018
Case summary
Muhammad Khalis bin Ramlee v Public Prosecutor [2018] SGHC 116
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9351 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):


1           The appellant was convicted of four charges in the District Court primarily as a result of his participation in the events of 24 December 2015, where two spontaneous group fights broke out outside a bar in Circular Road, and eventually led to the death of one person (“the deceased”). These comprised two charges of rioting under s 146 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the rioting charges”), one charge of voluntarily causing grievous hurt under s 325 of the Penal Code (“the grievous hurt charge”), and one charge of consumption of methamphetamine under s 8(b)(ii) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the drug consumption charge”) (from a urine sample provided after his arrest). He claimed trial to the grievous hurt charge but pled guilty to the other charges. The District Judge convicted him of all four charges and sentenced him to an aggregate imprisonment term of 10 years and 24 strokes of the cane. 


 


2          The appellant appealed against his sentence in respect of the grievous hurt charge. On appeal, the High Court reduced the sentence to 7½ years’ imprisonment and 20 strokes of the cane. In doing so, it commented on the mental element required for an offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt under s 325 read with s 322 of the Penal Code, as well as the sentencing principles applicable to such an offence. 


 
Facts


3          In the early hours of 24 December 2015, the appellant and some of his friends gathered at a bar at Circular Road for drinks. A dispute broke out outside the bar between two of his friends and attracted the attention of some onlookers. The appellant confronted one onlooker and eventually punched him. This escalated into a group fight, where more than ten members from the appellant’s group attacked a few onlookers. The fight was eventually broken up by a bar manager and a bartender, but another fight quickly ensued as some of the onlookers returned to confront some of the appellant’s friends. 


 


4          Towards the end of the second fight, the deceased was a short distance away near the taxi stand attempting to stop another dispute involving one of the appellant’s friends. The appellant, having returned to the scene from chasing some victims, delivered a lunging punch from behind the deceased. The deceased was knocked unconscious from the punch and fell to the ground, hit his head on the kerb, and eventually passed away from severe head injuries. The punch was the subject of the appellant’s grievous hurt charge.


 
The decision below


5          The District Judge sentenced the appellant to 30 months’ imprisonment and 6 strokes of the cane for each of the rioting charges, the statutory minimum of 3 years’ imprisonment for the drug consumption charge, and 7 years’ imprisonment and 12 strokes of the cane for the grievous hurt charge. He ordered the sentences for the drug consumption and grievous hurt charges to run consecutively and the sentences for the rioting charges to run concurrently, leading to an aggregate sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment and 24 strokes of the cane. 


 


6          The appellant appealed his imprisonment sentence for the grievous hurt charge on the basis that it was manifestly excessive. He contended that he had not intended to deliver such a strong blow to the deceased, or for the deceased to fall and hit his head and eventually pass away from his injuries. 


 
The High Court’s decision


7          On appeal, the High Court reduced the appellant’s sentence for the grievous hurt charge from 7 years’ imprisonment and 12 strokes of the cane to 4½ years’ imprisonment and 8 strokes of the cane. First, Sundaresh Menon CJ held that the mental element for an offence of voluntarily causing hurt under s 325 read with s 322 of the Penal Code was that the accused intended or knew it was likely that his actions would cause some form of grievous hurt to the victim. The knowledge required by the section was actual knowledge, meaning that the accused had to be subjectively aware of the likelihood of causing grievous hurt. Rashness or negligence was insufficient. However, although actual knowledge was required, the court could and often did infer such knowledge from the objective acts and circumstances of the offence. Practically speaking, if a reasonable person in the accused’s position would have known that grievous hurt was likely, the accused would have to prove or explain how and why he did not in fact have such knowledge as the reasonable person would have had: (at [29]–[44]).


 


8          Applying these principles, Menon CJ found that the appellant had actual knowledge that his punch would have caused some form of grievous hurt to the deceased. The force of the appellant’s punch was such that it toppled and knocked unconscious a relatively large man who was not drunk and who had not been involved in any fights prior to the punch. A reasonable person who delivered such a forceful punch would have known that it was likely that the deceased would either sustain some fracture or other form of grievous hurt, whether directly from the blow or as a result from falling from the blow. The appellant could not prove or explain why he nevertheless did not know that grievous hurt was likely to occur. There was also nothing in his conduct that suggested that he was surprised by the consequences of his blow. Thus, the appellant had the requisite mental element for the offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt under s 325 of the Penal Code: (at [45]–[46]).


 


9          Second, the High Court held that the sentencing framework established in PP v BDB [2018] 1 SLR 127 (“BDB”) was sufficient and appropriate to determine the appellant’s sentence. Applying BDB, the indicative starting sentence for an s 325 offence when death was caused was 8 years’ imprisonment and 12 or more strokes of the cane: (at [48]–[56]).
 


10          However, Menon CJ held that having regard to the appellant’s culpability such a sentence was not warranted. He found that the District Judge had placed excessive weight on the background against which the offence was committed, namely the two fights that the appellant had been involved in. The appellant had already been charged and convicted for his involvement in those two fights. Although the context of the appellant’s violence may have been relevant, his attack on the deceased could not be said to be part of the two fights and thus a part of the group violence that pervaded that night. His attack was entirely carried out alone without the support of anyone else: (at [57]–[66]).
 
 11          Further, the appellant had only delivered a single blow. Although it was not material for the conviction that the specific harm eventually caused was not the harm that was intended or known to be likely, this was relevant to sentencing. The less direct the connection between the act of the accused, the harm that he either intended or knew to be likely and the actual harm caused, the more it would be necessary to consider whether to temper the punishment to be imposed on the accused. The most that could be said of the appellant was that he intended to forcefully punch the deceased, in circumstances where he knew this was likely to cause a fracture or other grievous hurt either directly or through causing him to fall. This was at some distance from the death that ensued and justified a moderation in his sentence: (at [67]).
 
12          The appellant’s sentence for the grievous hurt charge was accordingly reduced to 4½ years’ imprisonment and 8 strokes of the cane, and his aggregate sentence reduced to 7½ years’ imprisonment and 20 strokes of the cane: (at [69] and [71]). 


This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
