
     
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
3 May 2018
Case summary
Sinnappan a/l Nadarajah v Public Prosecutor
Criminal Appeal No 5 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
The Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal against conviction for importing not less than 319.37g of methamphetamine, an offence under s 7 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). The conviction was affirmed because the Appellant failed to rebut the presumptions of possession and knowledge of the nature of the drugs under ss 21 and 18(2) of the MDA. In particular, he failed to prove that the drugs found in the car that he drove into Singapore had been planted without his knowledge and consent.
Background to the appeal


Mr Sinnappan a/l Nadarajah (“the Appellant”) was convicted after trial of one count of importing not less than 319.37g of methamphetamine, an offence under s 7 of the MDA. He was arrested on 16 May 2012 after one bundle containing the drugs was found in the car that he drove into Singapore.


It was undisputed that under ss 21 and 18(2) of the MDA, the Appellant was presumed to be in possession of the drugs found in the car and to have known the nature of the drugs in his possession. The Prosecution relied on a series of text messages and call records extracted from the Appellant’s mobile phones to show that the Appellant had a prior arrangement with one “Ravindran” to bring controlled drugs into Singapore. The Appellant’s defence, both at the trial below and in the appeal, was that the drugs had been planted in his car by Ravindran without his knowledge. He contended that he had no knowledge whatsoever of the messages relied upon by the Prosecution. He also contended that the mobile phone records should not be relied upon to establish his guilt because they are unreliable.
Decision on appeal


The Court of Appeal found that the Appellant failed to rebut the presumptions under ss 21 and 18(2) of the MDA. The Court found that the records of one of the mobile phones labelled “HP2” pertaining to the time of the offence were reliable, and that the messages relied upon by the Prosecution were sent by Ravindran to the Appellant’s HP2 on 16 May 2012, around the time of the Appellant’s arrest. In the Court’s view, the messages were simply incompatible with the Appellant’s case that Ravindran had planted the drugs in the car without the Appellant’s knowledge and consent. The Appellant had not provided a reasonable explanation for specific aspects of the messages which implied a prior arrangement between him and Ravindran, in particular the reference to “keja [being] already late”, the reference to a “China tauke waiting”, and the threats issued by Ravindran. The evidence on other aspects of the Appellant’s narrative, such as his entry into Singapore to make a loan application and his intention to return to Johor Bahru for an appointment at a motorcycle shop, was peripheral to the main inquiry concerning the Appellant’s possession and knowledge of the drugs in the car.


Therefore, the Court of Appeal was satisfied that the records of HP2 pertaining to the time of the offence supported the Prosecution’s case that the Appellant had a prior arrangement with Ravindran to bring the drugs into Singapore. The Appellant had not provided a reasonable explanation for the messages, and his case that the drugs were planted in the car did not cohere with the messages. Against this, there was no positive evidence to show that the Appellant had refused to carry the drugs and that the drugs had been planted by Ravindran. Accordingly, the appeal was dismissed and the Appellant’s conviction was affirmed.


 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
