
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
6 April 2018 
Case summary
Lee Tat Cheng v Maka GPS Technologies Pte Ltd  
Civil Appeal No 73 of 2017 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):
Outcome: CoA dismissed appeal against decision that the respondent’s offering of in-vehicle cameras did  not  infringe  the appellant’s patent, but allowed appeal in respect of decision to grant  injunction  restraining  appellant  from  continuing   to   make   threats   of infringement proceedings. 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment

     CoA considered the law on patent construction and held that the approach taken in the UK Supreme Court’s decision in Actavis UK Limited and others v Eli Lilly and Company [2017] UKSC 48 should not be applied in Singapore: at [50]. 
     Section 77 of the Patents Act maintained the position, similar to the approach under s 200 of the Copyright Act, that the claimant had to satisfy the court of the appropriateness of granting one or more of the particular kinds of relief set out in s 77(3) of the Patents Act before he could be granted such relief: at [106], [109]. 

 
Background to the appeal
1          Civil Appeal No 73 of 2017 was an appeal by Lee Tat Cheng (“the Appellant”) against the decision of the trial judge (“the Judge”) in Lee Tat Cheng v Maka GPS Technologies Pte Ltd [2017] SGHC 48. 
Facts
2          The Appellant is the proprietor of a patent for an in-vehicle camera (“the Patent”). The Patent was granted in May 2002, and since then, the Appellant has renewed the Patent on a yearly basis. 
3          The patented invention (“the Invention”) is an in-vehicle camera which is powered automatically and begins recording images when the driver turns the ignition system on. The camera records in a cyclical manner, with later images overwriting the earlier ones, so that at any one time, only the most recent images are stored. In the event of an impact to or sudden deceleration of the vehicle, a sensor is triggered and the main power supply to the camera is cut. Thereafter, the camera continues to record images using a standby power source, but only for a fixed interval of around five to ten seconds. In this way, the Invention is able to store and preserve visual data leading up to the event of a dangerous situation on the road such as an accident. 
4          Maka GPS Technologies Pte Ltd (“the Respondent”) distributed and offered for sale several models of in-vehicle cameras (collectively, “the Devices”). 
5          The Appellant alleged that the Respondent had infringed a claim in the Patent (“Claim 1”) by offering the Devices for sale. On this basis, the Appellant sought orders for the delivery up of the Devices, an account of profits in respect of the Devices sold to date or damages to be assessed, and other reliefs. 
6          The Respondent argued, first, that the Patent was and had always been invalid. Secondly, it maintained that the sale of the Devices did not infringe the Patent because three essential features of Claim 1 were not found in the Devices. These features were: (a) the existence of an ignition monitor; (b) a means to send a signal from the ignition monitor to the system controller on detection of an ignition voltage; and (c) a means to switch off at least one optical recorder after a fixed interval following the receipt of a sensor signal. The Respondent also counterclaimed for, amongst other things, an injunction under s 77 of the Patents Act against the Appellant’s threats of infringement proceedings. 
7          The Judge found that: (a) the Patent was valid; (b) the Devices did not infringe the claims in the Patent; and (c) relief under s 77 of the Patents Act for groundless threats of infringement proceedings should be granted. 
8          The Appellant appealed against the Judge’s decision in relation to infringement of the Patent and groundless threats of infringement proceedings, as well as the costs order that he made. There was no challenge to the Judge’s ruling on the validity of the Patent.  
Decision on appeal
9          The Court of Appeal dismissed the Appellant’s appeal in part. 
10        As a preliminary matter, the Court of Appeal examined the approaches to patent construction in the UK and Singapore. Prior to the UK Supreme Court’s decision in Actavis UK Limited and others v Eli Lilly and Company [2017] UKSC 48 (“Actavis”), the position in Singapore had been largely aligned with that in the UK (at [21]). The key principles included the rule that the protection conferred on the patentee was as set out in the patent claims and these were to be construed purposively and not literally (at [41]). The Court of Appeal held that Actavis should not be applied in Singapore because the approach taken there, which extended protection beyond the claims in the patent to include protection over inventions that achieved an equivalent effect as that claimed in the patent even if by different means, was inconsistent with our statute (at [51]), tilted the balance too far in favour of the patentee (at [52]), and might also give rise to undue uncertainty (at [53]). The Court of Appeal held that the protection conferred by a patent should be confined to what was set out in the claims in the patent and the correct approach to patent construction remained the purposive approach, and that the test to be applied was to ask what the words used in the patent claims would convey to the notional skilled person at the date of the patent application (at [55]). 
11        The first essential feature in dispute was the “ignition monitor” component of Claim 1 (at [58]). The Court of Appeal held that the Devices did not feature any “ignition monitor”. On this basis alone, that part of the appeal which related to the issue of non-infringement could be dismissed (at [69]). 
12        The second essential feature in dispute was the “means to send a signal [from the ignition monitor] to the system controller on detection of an ignition voltage” (at [70]). The Court of Appeal held that the term “signal” in Claim 1 could not be the transmission of voltage or electrical power itself, but must contain some information or data pertaining to that voltage or electrical power (at [79]). It was found that no information or data was sent by the current sensors in the Devices. Thus, the appeal against the Judge’s finding of non-infringement failed on this ground as well (at [80]).
13        The third disputed essential feature was the “means to switch off the at least one optical recorder after a fixed interval after receiving the sensor signal” (at [82]). It was held that the notional skilled person would understand this to entail that upon receiving a signal of a sudden deceleration of or impact to the vehicle, the optical recorder would switch off completely, as opposed to continue functioning but simultaneously segregating that portion of the storage medium which contained the images recorded prior to the receipt of the relevant signal such that those images would not be overwritten (at [98]). Thus, the appeal against the Judge’s finding of non-infringement also failed on this ground (at [99]). 
14        The grant of relief under s 77 of the Patents Act was ultimately discretionary (at [106]). Similar to the approach under s 200 of the Copyright Act pertaining to groundless threats of copyright infringement proceedings, it did not follow that whenever an allegation of patent infringement was dismissed, it would necessarily result in relief being granted under s 77 of the Patents Act (at [109]). On the facts, there was no evidence that the Appellant would make further threats of infringement proceedings against the Respondent. The injunction granted against the continuance of such threats was therefore inappropriate (at [112]). 
15        As the Appellant had expended significant time and resources defending the validity of the Patent, which was decided in his favour, only one-third of the costs of the proceedings below should be awarded to the Respondent (at [114]). The appeal against the Judge’s costs order was therefore allowed.  

This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
