
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
22 March 2018
Case summary
Ernest Ferdinand Perez De La Sala v Compañia De Navegación Palomar, SA and others and other appeals
Civil Appeals Nos 34, 35, 59 and 60 of 2017
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon Leong):
The Court of Appeal holds that the assets of the companies at stake in the dispute are held on a resulting trust in favour of two other companies. The Court of Appeal also sets out guidance regarding (i) the joinder of a third party after the delivery of judgment, (ii) witness preparation, and (iii) without prejudice privilege in the context of legal communications between parties.
1              Civil Appeals Nos 34, 35, 59 and 60 of 2017 (hereafter referred to as CA 34, CA 35, CA 59 and CA 60) were cross-appeals by two factions of the De La Sala family against the decision of the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) in Compania De Navegacion Palomar, SA and others v Ernest Ferdinand Perez De La Sala and another matter [2017] SGHC 14. These appeals arose from a bitter and acrimonious dispute between the two factions over six companies (“the Companies”) which held assets worth over US$584m in 2012. 
Facts
2              Mr Ernest Ferdinand Perez De La Sala (“Ernest”), the appellant in CA 34, managed assets held by the Companies, the appellants in CA 35. The Companies were structured such that three of them, which were incorporated in the British Virgin Islands (“BVI”) and Panama, legally owned all the shares in each other in a triangular structure. The other three companies were in turn held through this triangular structure. This created what was known as an “orphan structure”, in which the Companies had no apparent ultimate human owner. 
3              The purported understanding among Ernest’s immediate family, including some of his siblings, nephews and nieces, was that the Companies’ assets were managed for the De La Sala family’s benefit. Ernest also involved the seventh to ninth respondents in CA 34, Edward De La Sala (“Edward”) and Christina De La Sala (“Christina”) and James Copinger-Symes (“James”) (collectively “ECJ”), in managing the assets held in the Companies. Edward and Christina were the children of Robert Perez De La Sala (“Bobby”), Ernest’s brother while James was married to Christina. ECJ were directors in the Companies.
4              Following a falling-out with ECJ in August 2011, Ernest transferred all of the Companies’ assets to himself. The Companies then commenced proceedings against Ernest seeking, among other things, a declaration that the assets Ernest had transferred to himself belonged to the Companies, an order that those assets be returned and a declaration that the assets in each of the Companies’ names belonged absolutely to each of them. Ernest argued that he was the sole and beneficial owner of the Companies and their assets because they were merely his investment vehicles in which he parked his assets. These assets had their origins in two companies controlled by the family – North Enterprises Limited (“NEL”) and John Manners and Company Limited (Hong Kong) (“JMC”), which he obtained full control of after he allegedly bought out his mother’s and his siblings’ shares in them. His alternate claim was that even if the Companies were found to be absolute owners of their assets, he was the beneficial owner of the Companies. Ernest also counterclaimed against ECJ for, among other things, breach of their fiduciary duties to him and dishonest assistance. ECJ counterclaimed against Ernest for fraudulent misrepresentation, alleging that if Ernest was indeed the beneficial owner of the Companies and their assets, then he had fraudulently misrepresented to ECJ that the assets were part of a “family legacy” created by Ernest’s late father, and had thereby deceived ECJ into assisting him in the management of his assets. 
Decision below
5              The Judge below found that Ernest was the apparent beneficial owner of the shares and assets of the Companies (and was therefore entitled to transfer the assets to himself and to appoint or remove directors), but that he held part of his beneficial interest on trust for his three siblings, including Bobby, and his late mother’s estate. The Judge ordered that Bobby, who was previously a non-party to the proceedings, be allowed to intervene in the proceedings to seek an account of his share of the assets and of his share of their mother’s estate’s share of the assets. The Judge also dismissed Ernest’s counterclaims against ECJ and allowed ECJ’s counterclaim against Ernest for fraudulent misrepresentation. The Judge also found that two documents - an e-mail from James (“James’s E-mail”) to Ernest’s sister Isabel Brenda Koutsos (“Isabel”) and a letter from ECJ’s Queen’s Counsel to Ernest’s lawyer (“the IW Letter”) – which Ernest sought to rely on – were not admissible as they were protected by without prejudice privilege.
6              CA 34 is Ernest’s appeal against the Judge’s finding that he held part of his beneficial interest on trust for his siblings and late mother’s estate, the Judge’s dismissal of Ernest’s counterclaims against ECJ and the Judge’s finding that he was liable for fraudulent misrepresentation to ECJ. CA 35 is the Companies’ appeal against the Judge’s dismissal of their claim that the assets in their respective names belong absolutely to each of them. CA 59 is Ernest’s appeal against the Judge’s decision that Bobby could intervene in the action and seek an account from Ernest, despite being a non-party and not having submitted pleadings in the proceedings. CA 60 is Ernest’s appeal against the Judge’s finding that James’s E-mail and the IW Letter are protected by without prejudice privilege. 
Decision of the court
7              The Court of Appeal allowed CA 59 and CA 60 in totality, and CA 34 and CA 35 in part.
CA 34 and CA 35
Beneficial ownership of the shares in the Companies and the Companies’ assets
8              The Court of Appeal reversed the Judge’s decision and found that the Companies were the legal owners of their assets and that these assets were held on trust for NEL and JMC, not Ernest. Ernest was also not the sole beneficial owner of the shares of the Companies. ([116])
9              The Court of Appeal found that the composition of the Companies’ assets, which were mostly in the form of gold, shares of other companies, bonds and treasury bills, as well as the multitude of gratuitous transfers among the Companies across a number of years, indicated that each Company was treated as an interchangeable repository for assets, rather than a trading company with its own revenue-generating activities. This strongly suggested that the Companies were not the absolute owners of their assets. ([122]–[124])
10           While the substantial source of the Companies assets appeared to be NEL and JMC, there was no evidential basis supporting Ernest’s claim that he had transferred his personal assets into the Companies and/or bought out his siblings’ shares in NEL and JMC, and in any event, a beneficial interest in a company’s shares did not imply a beneficial interest in the company’s assets. Since it had not been shown that NEL’s and JMC’s assets were transferred for consideration or as gifts, the presumption of resulting trust applied, and that resulting trust would remain imprinted on those assets as they passed from corporate vehicle to corporate vehicle. The Companies therefore held the assets on trust for NEL and JMC. ([124]–[127])
11           The Court of Appeal also affirmed the Judge’s findings that Ernest and his witnesses lacked credibility. The Court of Appeal set out several principles governing the permissibility of witness preparation. First, the solicitor, in preparing the witness, must not supplant or supplement the witness’s own evidence. Second, the preparation must not be lengthy or repetitive. Third, witness preparation should not be done in groups. ([132]–[134], [138]–[140])
12           The Court of Appeal noted that even if it was accepted that Ernest was the sole beneficial owner of the Companies’ assets, he would not have the right to remove the Companies’ assets from the Companies in the way that he did, by way of outright transfer. A beneficiary’s interest does not give him beneficial rights directly enforceable against the property itself but rather a right to constrain or control the way another person deals with the property. The only way for Ernest to have appropriated the assets would have been to put an end to the trust by invoking the rule in Saunders v Vautier – which was not done. ([145]–[148])
13           The Court of Appeal also disagreed with the Judge’s application of BVI and Panamanian law to find that Ernest was the ultimate beneficial owner of the shares in the Companies. The substance of the legal experts’ testimony in this regard was that beneficial ownership was a fact-sensitive inquiry that required an in-depth analysis of all the relevant facts as well as the context. It was not an inexorable conclusion that Ernest was the beneficial owner of the shares simply because he incorporated and controlled the Companies. It was also important to examine his purpose for so acting and the capacity in which he had acted. Having regard to the entirety of the circumstances, the Court of Appeal found that Ernest had not set up and/or acquired the Companies and put them into the present structure for his own purposes. ([149]–[154])
14           Ernest therefore had to account to the Companies regarding the assets that he appropriated and what profits were made on them (if any), and return the assets to the Companies after an account had been taken. But the Companies were not the absolute owners of the assets and took the assets subject to a resulting trust in favour of NEL and JMC. The Court made no finding as to the precise distribution of beneficial interests in the Companies and their assets as it was not necessary for the purposes of the present proceedings. ([155]–[156])
ECJ’s alleged breaches of fiduciary duties and conspiracy to injure
15           The Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s decision. The basis for Ernest’s counterclaims against ECJ of breach of fiduciary duties and conspiracy to injure, etc, was his ownership of the Companies’ shares and assets. Given the findings that Ernest was not the sole beneficial owner of the Companies or their assets, the factual basis for Ernest’s counterclaims fell away. ([159])
Ernest’s alleged fraudulent misrepresentations regarding the family legacy
16           The key elements of fraudulent misrepresentation that were disputed were (i) whether the representations regarding the “family legacy” by Ernest as understood by ECJ were in fact false, and (ii) whether the representations were made with the knowledge that they were false, wilfully false or made in the absence of any genuine belief that they were true. ([176])
17           The Court of Appeal found that there was no evidence to support ECJ’s argument that “family legacy” referred specifically to a trust in favour of Ernest, his late mother, and his siblings and descendants of the family. Instead, the understanding of “family legacy” that Ernest and ECJ had was that there was a pool of assets held by various corporate vehicles which were, in general terms, meant to benefit Ernest, his late mother, his siblings and their descendants. There was no representation or understanding as to the precise legal structures or mechanisms by which the benefits were to flow to the family members. However, the custodian or custodians of the “family legacy” were to receive greater rewards than the rest of the family. Further, Ernest intended to pass on the custodianship to ECJ in due course, subject to their proving worthy. ([181], [183])
18           The Court of Appeal found that the critical question was whether the representations were at variance from the reality as found by a court, and not whether they were at variance with what the representor thought to be the reality. In the Court’s view, Ernest’s representations had not been proven to be false. The fact that a significant portion of the pool of assets existed for the benefit of Ernest’s late mother and his siblings was sufficiently close, in substance, to the loose understanding of a “family legacy” that ECJ had. It was never part of ECJ’s understanding that they had or would have a direct and enforceable entitlement to benefit from the assets. Nor was it shown that Ernest lacked any genuine intention, expectation, or hope of transferring custodianship of the “family legacy” to ECJ in the future, as he sought their opinion on significant commercial matters, requested proposals from them on how to formalise their roles for their future and prepared draft memoranda which sketched the custodianship which he envisioned for them. It was only later, following certain disagreements, that Ernest changed his mind and decided that ECJ were not the worthy successors which he had taken them for. None of the relevant representations was substantially false, if at all, so the Court did not allow ECJ’s counterclaim for fraudulent misrepresentation. ([185]–[188])
CA 59
19           This appeal was rendered somewhat academic given the Court of Appeal’s decision that the Companies held their assets on trust for NEL and JMC, which removed any basis for Bobby to intervene in the proceedings. Notwithstanding this, the Court of Appeal set out guidance on this issue as it was significant and potentially confusing. O 15 r 6(2) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2006 Rev Ed), the joinder provision, warranted a two stage inquiry – (i) whether the power to order joinder still existed, and if so, (ii) whether the power should be exercised. The court had the power to join a party at any stage while proceedings were still afoot, ie, if something remained to be done in the matter, such as the assessment of damages. Once the power of joinder had been determined to exist, it could be exercised if the court determined that (i) a party’s presence was necessary to ensure that the matter could be effectually and completely determined and adjudicated upon; or (ii) if there was an existing question or issue between the existing parties and it would be just and convenient to join the third party for the purpose of determining the same question or issue. ([193], [198], [202]–[204])
20           However, on either limb, it was entirely possible for countervailing concerns of fairness (among other things) to override the reasons for joinder, and the court had to consider all the factors that were relevant to the balance of justice in a particular case. The following factors were (in no particular order of importance) of particular relevance to the present appeal: (i) the applicable limitation period to the potential claims arising from the joinder; (ii) the doctrine of res judicata and the related doctrine of abuse of process, (iii) the length of and explanation for the delay in seeking joinder, (iv) procedural fairness and natural justice, and (v) any other prejudice or inconvenience to any party. ([202]–[210])
21           On the facts, though the proceedings had not terminated and the Judge possessed the power of joinder, the power was not correctly exercised. Bobby’s joinder was not justifiable as it was not necessary, and given Bobby’s express disavowal of any personal claim to the Companies’ assets during the proceedings, it could not be said that there was an existing issue or question between the Companies and Ernest that was also relevant to him. Further, there were a number of countervailing reasons against granting the joinder. For instance, any joinder was procedurally unfair as Bobby had not asserted a personal claim to the Companies’ assets, and his claim against Ernest (as framed by the Judge) would have been time-barred. Bobby also lacked standing to seek an account for the beneficial interest of Camila’s estate as his right as a beneficiary of an estate was not a direct equitable interest in the estate’s assets, but a right to have the estate properly administered. There was also no good explanation for his excessive delay in seeking to intervene. The Court thus allowed CA 59. ([212]–[229])
CA 60 
22           The Court of Appeal reversed the Judge’s decision and held that James’s Email and the IW Letter were not protected by without prejudice privilege as neither were communications made with the purpose of inviting negotiations for a settlement. Such communications had to be read in their context as well as for their cumulative effect. The Court of Appeal observed that if exclusive emphasis on the other party’s legal weakness and precarious position was made so strongly that a reasonable observer would find it hard to understand why the sending party would be willing to accept anything short of acquiescence or to offer any concession of its own, then the court ought to be prepared to infer that the references to negotiation or settlement were fig leaves for a communication the only real purpose of which was to pressure the other party into acquiescing. ([91])
23           The entirety of the IW Letter was devoted to highlighting various aspects of Ernest’s wrongdoing, save for the qualifying statements that James was not intending to report the purported illegalities of Ernest to the police. It also emphasised the potential criminal implications for Ernest’s witnesses (in particular, Isabel). The distinct impression gained from the letter as a whole was that the letter was intended to exert pressure on the recipient to acquiesce in the maker’s demands. The letter therefore failed to meet the threshold requirement of being a genuine invitation to negotiate a settlement. ([92]–[94])
24           The email to Isabel was brief and factual, alerting her to the existence of the IW Letter. However, it was not directed at having Isabel act as a conduit to pass on a message to Ernest about settlement – but to draw her intention to potential adverse consequences that she might face if she participated in the proceedings below. Accordingly, it also did not evidence a genuine intention to negotiate. Both documents were therefore not protected by without prejudice privilege. ([96], [99])
 
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
