

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


5 March 2018


Case summary



Ali bin Mohamad Bahashwan v Public Prosecutor and other appeals

Criminal Appeals Nos 33, 34 and 35 of 2016



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Andrew Phang Boon
Leong):



The Court of Appeal holds that a person who abets another to traffic drugs
to himself for his own consumption is not liable for drug trafficking
unless he himself intended to traffic in those drugs.


 1         This case involved three men who were convicted of trafficking in a
single bundle of diamorphine (that is, heroin) which was the subject of a
transaction in which they all were participants. Two of them were sentenced
to death and one to life imprisonment. Their appeals against their
convictions and sentences were dismissed by the Court of Appeal today.


Background


2          On the evening of 23 October 2012, Ali Bin Mohamad Bahashwan (“Ali”) told
his flatmate, Selamat Bin Paki (“Selamat”) to collect a bundle of drugs
from Ragunath Nair A/L Janartanan (“Ragunath”) at the void deck of a block
of flats in Tampines. Selamat did so, and was arrested before he could
deliver the drugs to Ali. Ali and Ragunath were also arrested shortly
thereafter. The bundle contained not less than 27.12g of pure heroin, which
is an amount the trafficking of which warrants capital punishment.


3          Ali was charged with abetting Selamat to traffic in the heroin in the
bundle under s 5(1)(a) read with s 12 of the Misuse of Drugs Act
(Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”). Selamat and Ragunath were charged with
trafficking in that same bundle of heroin under s 5(1)(a) of the
MDA. All three were tried jointly in the High Court. The High Court Judge
(“the Judge”) convicted them on their charges. He passed the mandatory
death sentence on Ali and Selamat. As Ragunath had been issued a
certificate of substantive assistance, the Judge sentenced him to life
imprisonment and a mandatory 15 strokes of the cane. All three accused
persons appealed against their convictions and sentences.


Ali’s and Selamat’s appeals


4          Generally speaking, the claim that the offending drugs were for one’s
personal consumption is a common answer to a charge of drug trafficking and
is known as the personal consumption defence. This case involved what the
Court termed a joint personal consumption defence: Ali’s and Selamat’s case
was that they jointly intended to consume half the heroin in the
bundle and to sell the other half. That was said to take the amount of
heroin which Ali was charged for having abetted Selamat to traffic in, and
which Selamat was charged for having trafficked in, below the amount
warranting capital punishment. Advanced within the context of this case,
this defence raised two questions of law. First, as a matter of principle,
is it a valid defence for a person charged with abetting another to traffic
in drugs to claim that the offending drugs were meant for his own
consumption? Second, is there such a thing in law as a joint personal
consumption defence?


5          On the first question, the Court held, in agreement with the ruling of the High Court in Liew Zheng Yang v Public Prosecutor [2017] SGHC 157 (“Liew Zheng Yang”)
and contrary to the Prosecution’s submission, that a person incurs no
criminal liability under s 5 read with s 12 of the MDA for abetting another
to traffic drugs to himself if the drugs were meant for his own
consumption. The Court referred to such a person as a
“consuming-recipient”. The rule is that where there is evidence that an
accused person was the intended recipient of drugs which he had allegedly
abetted another to traffic in, the court must be satisfied – and the
Prosecution has to prove – beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused
himself had the intention to traffic in those drugs, before he can be
convicted on the abetment charge. In other words, he has to be shown not to
be a consuming-recipient. This rule is necessitated by the clear policy of
the MDA, which draws a distinction between how addicts and traffickers are
to be treated and punished. ([3], [33] and [75])


6          The Court held that there were two main reasons why the MDA’s policy had
to inform and, indeed, modify the elements of the offence of abetting
another to traffic in drugs in this specific factual context:


(a)          First, the question whether a consuming-recipient may be guilty of
abetting another to traffic drugs to himself essentially involves the
question whether s 12 of the MDA makes an abettor liable to be punished as
if he had committed an offence under the MDA which he as principal could
not, by the very terms of that offence, have committed. This is a question
that should and must be answered with reference to the policy of the MDA. (    [36], [40], [47] and [48])


(b)          Second – and this is a principle that buttresses the first reason and
further justifies the need to look at the MDA’s policy – the common law
contains a specialised rule of statutory interpretation that invites the
court to look at how the legislature intended to deal with conduct which is
inevitably incidental to a statutory offence before deciding whether such
conduct is criminalised and, if so, how. By way of example, prostitution is
conduct which is an inevitable incident of the statutory offence of living
on the earnings of a prostitute; but prostitution is not itself intended by
Parliament to be criminalised, certainly not through accessory liability
for that statutory offence. Similarly, the intended receipt of drugs is
conduct which is an inevitable incident of the statutory offence of
trafficking, and it is therefore necessary to ask how the legislature
intended to deal with such receipt in so far as the recipient participated
in the trafficking offence, especially when he is a mere addict. Otherwise,
as even the Prosecution accepted, virtually every person in possession of
drugs for his own consumption would be liable for abetting another to
traffic in drugs. ([49], [55], [57], [59], [62] and [63])


7          In that regard, the Court observed that it is well-established that the
MDA is intended to operate differentially as between drug traffickers and
drug addicts. This distinction has been expressly and repeatedly
articulated in relevant ministerial statements with regard to the MDA, and
is captured in the MDA’s provision not only for more severe penalties for
drug traffickers compared to drug addicts but also for rehabilitative
measures for the latter group. The centrality of this distinction to the
MDA’s policy and the absence of any evidence of legislative intention that
a consuming-recipient should be treated as a trafficker led the Court to
the view that Parliament cannot have intended to criminalise
consuming-recipients under the offence of drug trafficking. And that is why
the rule in Liew Zheng Yang was held to be correct. (    [65], [67] and [74])


8          In so far as the second question is concerned, the Court disagreed with
the Judge, and held that there is no such thing as a joint
personal consumption defence: each accused person must be treated
individually and independently for the purpose of the charge which has been
brought against him. Therefore, the amount that Ali intended to consume
could not be credited to Selamat, and vice versa, for the purpose of either
of their attempts to establish that the portion of the heroin intended for
personal consumption takes its total quantity below the amount warranting
capital punishment. ([3] and [98])


9          Turning to the merits of their appeals, the Court observed that the Judge
was wrong to consider Ali as being presumed under s 17 of the MDA to have
the intention of trafficking in the offending drugs. The presumption under
s 17 arises upon the fact of possession of the offending drugs. As Ali
never came into possession of the offending bundle of heroin, he cannot be
presumed to have had the intention to traffic in it. The Judge was correct,
however, to proceed on the basis that that presumption applies to Selamat
because Selamat was in possession of the bundle. (    [92] and [95])


10          Nevertheless, the Court was of the view that Ali’s and Selamat’s appeals
had no merit. To begin with, there was no factual basis in the idea that
Ali and Selamat jointly intended to consume half the heroin in the bundle.
It was Ali who paid for and had full ownership over the heroin in the
bundle, and Selamat had a mere expectation to receive some amount of heroin
from Ali in exchange for making drug deliveries. There was also no
reasonable doubt that Ali intended to traffic in the bulk of the heroin in
the bundle in so far as he intended (a) to sell at least half the bundle
for profit and (b) to give a substantial portion of the remaining heroin to
Selamat. Furthermore, the assertion that half the bundle was intended to be
consumed by them was incredible because it did not match their own evidence
on their rate of consumption and the number of days the supply was meant
for. ([98], [99] and [105])


11          Therefore, in so far as Ali is concerned, he was not a
consuming-recipient and could obtain no assistance from the rule in    Liew Zheng Yang. In so far as Selamat was concerned, he had failed
to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17 of the MDA because the
evidence showed that he intended to transport the bundle to Ali. His motive
for doing so – that is, to obtain heroin from Ali as a reward – was
irrelevant to the charge as it showed only that he was a courier, not that
he was not a trafficker. For these reasons, the Court dismissed Ali’s and
Selamat’s appeals against their convictions and sentences. (    [3], [101] and [103])


Ragunath’s appeal


12          The Court noted that the Judge correctly held that Ragunath is presumed
under s 18(2) of the MDA to know that the bundle contained heroin. The key
issue in his appeal was therefore whether he could rebut that presumption
on the balance of probabilities. ([115])


13          The Court held that he failed to do so, largely for the reasons given by
the Judge. In particular, various material inconsistencies in his evidence
strongly suggest that his account of being under the impression that he was
helping a friend deliver a bundle of medicine is unbelievable. For example,
at the time he was arrested, he told the Central Narcotics Bureau that he
thought that the bundle contained foodstuff. It was only later – in his
long statements and at trial – that he claimed that it contained medicine
for the elderly, which suggests that that claim is an afterthought. Text
messages found in his mobile phone also indicate that he had previously
visited the place where he delivered the bundle to Selamat, and this
contradicts his claim that 23 October 2012 was his first time there.
Accordingly the Court dismissed his appeal against his conviction. (    [128], [129], [130] and [134])


14          The Court also dismissed his appeal against his sentence because the
Judge imposed the minimum possible sentence in law. ([139]
)


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


