
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
13 February
2019 
Case summary
Shanghai Turbo Enterprises Ltd v Liu Ming
[2018] SGCA 11 
Civil Appeal 87 of 2018 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):
Outcome: CoA allows appeal against
decision to set aside an order granting to leave to serve a writ out of
jurisdiction. 
1 This
was an appeal against the decision of a High Court judge to set aside an
assistant registrar’s order that the appellant be granted leave to serve a writ
outside of Singapore on the respondent.
Background
to the appeal 
2 The
appellant, Shanghai Turbo Enterprises Ltd (“Shanghai Turbo”), is a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands
and listed on the Singapore stock exchange. It also owns a Hong
Kong-incorporated company, which in turn owns a China-incorporated company. All
three companies form a group which is in the business of precision engineering
(at [5]).
3         3 The
respondent, Mr Liu Ming, owns about 30% of the shares in Shanghai Turbo. He was
also its Executive Director from November 2005 to April 2007, and its Chief
Executive Officer from January 2010 to April 2017. He also held other
managerial positions in the group’s other companies. In April 2017, Mr Liu was
removed from all his executive and managerial positions in the group (at [6]). 
4 Subsequently,
Shanghai Turbo commenced Suit No 571 of 2017 (“Suit 571/2017”) against Mr Liu
for various alleged breaches of a service agreement that he had with them in
relation to his appointment as their Executive Director (“the Service Agreement”).
As Mr Liu resides in China, Shanghai Turbo applied and obtained the court’s
leave to serve the relevant cause papers on Mr Liu in China (“the Service
Order”). It also obtained a Mareva injunction against Mr Liu, which prevented
him from dealing with his assets in Singapore, as well as an injunction against
Mr Liu and two other shareholders of Shanghai Turbo which prevented the trio
from exercising some of their rights attached to their shares in the company (“the
voting injunction”). However, Mr Liu made a successful application to the High
Court to have the Service Order set aside. In the course of the proceedings, he
also supported an application by the two other shareholders for an injunction
against Shanghai Turbo (“the non-parties’ application”), and to have the voting
injunction varied. Shanghai Turbo then appealed against the High Court judge’s
decision to set aside the Service Order (at [7]-[19]). 
Reasons
for the court’s decision 
5 The
Court of Appeal allowed Shanghai Turbo’s appeal and restored the Service Order
as well as the various injunctions against Mr Liu (at [108]).
6 It
observed that Mr Liu’s support of the non-parties’ application, even though he
was not compelled to respond or participate in it, unequivocally signified his
acceptance and invocation of the Singapore Court’s jurisdiction to try Suit
571/2017 (at [33] and [39]). On this basis alone the Singapore High Court had
jurisdiction to hear Suit 571/2017 (at [48]).
7 The
Court of Appeal also observed that this was a proper case for the granting of
leave to serve a writ out of jurisdiction under O 11 r 1 of the Rules of Court
(Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“the ROC”) for three reasons.
a.    First, Singapore law arguably governed
the Service Agreement between Shanghai Turbo and Mr Liu, thereby fulfilling the
requirement under O 11 r 1(d)(iii) of the ROC (at [50]-[52]); 
b.    Second, O 11 rr 1(d)(iv) and (r) were
also satisfied since Mr Liu had agreed to submit to the Singapore courts’
jurisdiction to hear any suit between himself and Shanghai Turbo that arose out
of the Service Agreement. This submission by Mr Liu arose from a non-exclusive
jurisdiction clause contained in the Service Agreement, where the parties
agreed to submit to the Singapore courts’ non-exclusive jurisdiction. In
arriving at this conclusion, the Court of Appeal  gave  guidance
on the legal effect of non-exclusive jurisdiction clauses. These are clauses
which name a jurisdiction to which the parties agree to submit any dispute that
arises on the basis that it need not be the only jurisdiction that will be
competent to hear the case. The court also discussed the circumstances in which,
when sued in an agreed jurisdiction, the defending party may be released from
its contractual obligation to submit to that court’s jurisdiction. The Court
held that such a party may be released from its contractual obligation to
submit to the agreed upon jurisdiction if it could show strong cause why it
should not be held to that obligation. It found that on the facts of this case Mr
Liu had failed to show strong cause as to why he should be released from his contractual
obligation to submit to the Singapore courts’ jurisdiction (at [81]-[84],
[86]-[88], and [94]-[96]).
c.     Finally, Shanghai Turbo had fulfilled
its obligation to make full and frank disclosure when applying for leave to
serve the relevant cause papers in S 571/2017 out of Singapore (at [103]-[107]).

   This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
