
SINGAPORE INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL COURT

13
February 2018
Media
Summary
Singapore
International Commercial Court Suit No 2 of 2017 (Summons No 2 of 2018)
Bachmeer Capital Limited v Ong Chih Ching [2018]
SGHC(I) 01




Background
facts
1                   
The present dispute arose out
of a collaboration between the parties to build a ski resort in Singapore
code-named “Winterland”. Eventually the parties’
collaboration broke down and they signed a termination agreement in May 2015.
An issue arose as to the parties’ communication with a third party, Lu Jia Zui Group, prior to the termination.
 
The application
2                   
In Summons No 2 of 2018 in the
Singapore International Commercial Court, the first, second, fourth, fifth, and
sixth defendants applied to the court for leave for two factual witnesses to
give their oral evidence by way of live video link from Shanghai, China.
3                   
The court observed that the
parties had liaised with the court IT staff to ensure that the video link
between Shanghai and Singapore was of sufficient quality and that the necessary
administrative arrangements would be in place. This therefore met the technical
requirements within s 62A of the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed).
4                   
But this did not mean that
leave to give evidence by video link would necessarily be granted. Evaluating
the two witnesses separately, the court allowed the application in relation to
one but not the other. The first witness, Mr Lee Chee Kiat, was to give
evidence on the important issue of the initial introduction and subsequent
discussion between the parties prior to the termination of the collaboration.
But his only reason for testifying by video link was that it was inconvenient
to give evidence in Singapore as he worked in Shanghai and did not travel to
Singapore often. This alone was not sufficient, especially when considered against the fact
that it is important that a witness give important evidence in person so that
the proceedings are conducted fairly. Hence, the court
did not grant leave for Mr Lee to testify by video link.
5                   
The second witness,
Mr Yang Xiao Ming, was the chairman of the Lu Jia Zui
Group at the material time. Evidence was tendered that the witness had a
medical condition that impeded his travel to Singapore, and that his passport
was withheld by the relevant Chinese authorities despite having taken steps to
obtain permission from these authorities to attend the hearing in Singapore.
Although the party cross-examining him would suffer some prejudice compared to
a situation where he appeared in person, the alternative was that the witness
could not give evidence on an important issue at all. This was an
unsatisfactory situation. The court granted leave for him to testify by video link
and was satisfied that no party was unfairly prejudiced. 
 
* This summary is provided
to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to
be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. 

