

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
12 February
2018 
Case summary
Zainudin
bin Mohamed v Public Prosecutor 
Criminal Appeal No 29 of 2016 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven Chong):
CoA sets out
guidance on whether drug traffickers who divide and pack drugs fall outside the
scope of the “courier exception” for discretionary life sentencing under the
Misuse of Drugs Act.

1         This appeal
concerned the interpretation of s 33B(2)(a)
of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”), which sets out
the requirements for a person convicted of the offence of drug trafficking or
drug importation to be considered a mere “courier”. The crux of the appeal was
whether the division and packing of drugs by an offender takes him out of the
definition of a “courier”. In its judgment, the Court of Appeal also examined
and rationalised the breadth of activities which would be considered to be acts
that are preparatory to or for the purpose of transporting, sending or
delivering a controlled drug under s 33B(2)(a)(iii)
of the MDA. 

Background facts

2         The appellant received a plastic bag
at the lift lobby of his block. Within the plastic bag were two “batu” of drugs containing diamorphine.
He returned to his flat and later received instructions to divide the drugs in
one of the two “batu” into half and to pack each of
the divided portions into two smaller packets. The appellant was then to await
further instructions regarding delivery of the repacked drugs. He made a few
cuts on one of the packets, intending to divide and repack the contents, before
the police entered his flat and arrested him. In the course of investigations,
the appellant admitted that on a previous occasion, he had likewise received
two “batu” of drugs. He had then repacked one of the
“batu” into two smaller packets containing equal
amounts of drugs, and handed the packets and the remaining “batu”
to various recipients who arrived at his block or its vicinity. 

3          The appellant was convicted by the
High Court judge (“the Judge”) of the offence of possession of not less than
22.73g of diamorphine for the purposes of
trafficking. The Judge found that he was not a “courier” because he had
embarked on the process of repacking one bundle of drugs into two smaller
packets. On appeal, the appellant argued that his act of dividing the “batu” was necessary for his onward transmission of the
correct quantity of drugs to the parties who collected the drugs from him. He
also argued that he was a courier because the divided “batu”
was still many times above the retail size and therefore was not meant to
facilitate distribution or sale, and that he had acted on instructions and did
not exercise decision-making powers in seeking to divide and pack the drugs.

Decision of the court

Facilitative
and incidental acts 

4               The Court
of Appeal reviewed the parliamentary debates on the introduction of s 33B as well
as the case law that had developed on this issue since s 33B came into force. The
Court of Appeal held that leaving aside acts that consist purely of
transporting, sending or delivering of drugs and offering to do such acts, the
common thread that runs through the other types of conduct that have been found
to fall within the scope of s 33B(2)(a)
is that they are all acts that were facilitative
of or incidental to the
transporting, sending or delivering of the controlled drugs by the offender to
the intended recipient. ([36]–[80], [81])

5               The
Court of Appeal provided the following explanations of facilitative and
incidental acts. Acts that are facilitative
of the transporting, sending or delivering of drugs are acts that are
“preparatory to” or “for the purpose of” such transporting, sending or
delivering. They enable or assist the offender to transport, send or deliver
the drugs (and not to accomplish any unrelated aims which the offender may have
in mind). Acts that are
incidental to the sending, transporting
or delivering of controlled drugs are secondary or subordinate acts that occur,
or are likely to occur, in the course or as a consequence of such sending,
transporting or delivering. Again, the primary act at issue is the offender’s
sending, transporting or delivering of the drugs, which lies at the heart of
each of the four limbs of s 33B(2)(a)
of the MDA. ([82], [84]) 

Division
and packing of drugs 

6      The Court
of Appeal emphasised that not every act of division and packing of drugs would necessarily take such an offender
outside the courier exception. In determining whether an offender’s division
and packing of drugs is preparatory to or for the purpose of transporting,
sending or delivering the drugs, it is of the first importance to have close
regard to the reason or purpose for
the division and packing, objectively ascertained. If that reason or purpose
is, for instance, to ensure that the drugs can be transported securely or to
allow for placement of the drugs into confined spaces within the transporting
vehicle, then the division and packing of the drugs can be considered to be facilitative of the transporting,
sending or delivering of the drugs. However, breaking bulk for the purpose of
enabling the original quantity of drugs to be transmitted to more than one
recipient is not a preparatory step to deliver but is an antecedent step that
is involved in facilitating distribution
to more than one recipient. Therefore, properly understood, the act of breaking
bulk is an act that enables distribution
rather than an act that is preparatory to or for the purposes of delivery. That
purpose does not fall within the scope of s 33B(2)(a)(iii) of the MDA and hence excludes an
offender from eligibility for discretionary life sentencing under s 33B(1). ([92], [101])

7               Given the
cardinal importance of ascertaining the reason or purpose for the division and
packing, the Court of Appeal stressed that it is imperative for the offender to furnish an explanation for
his conduct if he is seeking to persuade the court that he is a mere courier.
This is plain from s 33B(2)(a) which
places the burden on the offender to prove that his involvement in the offence
was restricted to one of the qualifying types of activities falling within the
courier exception. If he does not provide any evidence that he had a qualifying
reason or purpose for dividing and packing the drugs, then he will plainly have
failed to discharge that burden. ([109])
 Application to the facts

8                    In the
present case, the appellant chose to remain silent at the close of the
Prosecution’s case and did not offer oral evidence in his defence. The Court of
Appeal held that the appellant failed to discharge his burden under s 33B(2)(a) by electing to remain silent in the
face of clear evidence, found in the statements provided by the appellant
himself, that the appellant was to await instructions on how the drugs that he
had divided and repacked were subsequently to be distributed, just as he had
done so on a previous occasion. ([115])

9                    The Court
of Appeal rejected the appellant’s submission that because the appellant was
not exercising business decision-making powers in dividing the “batu”, he was merely a courier. An offender’s ability to
exercise decision-making power may provide
a strong reason to find that he is not merely a courier, but the fact that he
does not possess such ability is not in
itself sufficient to establish that he is in fact a mere courier. The Court
of Appeal likewise rejected the appellant’s argument that because the divided
amounts of drugs remain substantial in quantity, it is unlikely that they were
meant to be directly delivered to drug abusers for their consumption, and more
likely that they would be moved further along the chain of distribution and
subsequently further subdivided into smaller portions intended for immediate
consumption. What is crucial is the fact that the reason or purpose for the
offender’s division and packing is to create the prospect for wider dissemination
of the drugs. Such a prospect materialises when he breaks down the original
quantity of drugs into smaller amounts for this purpose, even if those smaller
amounts remain substantial and therefore subject to possible further
sub-division down the line. What the appellant really sought to accomplish, in
the absence of any satisfactory explanation from him, was the division and
packing of drugs for the purpose of
distribution. His role in the drug trafficking enterprise – indeed his central role – was to divide and repack
the diamorphine on instructions for distribution to
customers. The Court of Appeal found that it would not be unreasonable to
characterise the appellant’s residence as a sort of “distribution hub”. In the
circumstances, it was of a matter of particular urgency for the appellant to
explain that the reason and purpose for the intended division and repacking was
unrelated to that of distribution. In omitting to do so, he has failed to
discharge his burden under s 33B(2)(a)
of the MDA. ([117]–[118])

Application to the facts

10                  For the
foregoing reasons, the Court of Appeal found that the appellant’s submission
that he should be considered a “courier” because his involvement in the offence
falls within the scope of s 33B(2)(a)(i)–(iv) of the MDA, was without merit. The Court of Appeal
accordingly dismissed his appeal and affirmed the Judge’s decision to pass the
sentence of death on the appellant. ([123])



 
This
summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of
decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court.
All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding
paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
