
SUPREME COURT OF
SINGAPORE

20 October 2017 
MEDIA SUMMARY
Lam Kwok Tai Leslie v
Singapore Medical Council 
[2017] SGHC 260
Originating Summons No 11 of 2016 
Decision of the High Court (delivered by
Sundaresh Menon CJ)
1          This was an appeal by Dr Lam Kwok Tai Leslie
(“Dr Lam”), a cardiologist in private practice, against his conviction by
a Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) appointed by the Singapore Medical Council (“the
SMC”) of one charge of professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the Medical Registration Act
(Cap 174, 2004 Rev Ed) (“the MRA”) for having failed to obtain
informed consent from a patient (“the Patient”) prior to carrying out an
invasive procedure known as a Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (“PCI”), in
breach of Guideline 4.2.2 of the 2002 edition of the SMC’s Ethical Code
and Ethical Guidelines (“the SMC ECEG”). Dr Lam was acquitted of two other
charges which had been brought against him. The DT sentenced Dr Lam to
three months’ suspension from practice, and also ordered him to pay one-third
of the costs and expenses of the inquiry to the SMC. 
2          Dr Lam appealed against his conviction, and, in the
alternative, against his three-month suspension sentence on the basis that if
his conviction were upheld, he should be sentenced to a fine instead. The main
issue in the appeal was whether the DT erred in finding professional misconduct
on Dr Lam’s part.  
The material facts 
3          A PCI is a procedure used to open a blocked coronary artery
by placing stents, which are small mesh tubes, in the
affected artery to support its inner wall. 
4          The Patient’s complaint arose from
Dr Lam’s management of his condition in March 2011. The Patient had a
history of coronary artery disease, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. He had
previously undergone a PCI at Raffles Hospital in 2006, when three stents had
been inserted. In March 2011, the Patient visited Singapore and sought a
suitable doctor to provide follow-up treatment.  
5          The Patient had three consultations with Dr Lam before
the PCI was carried out. At the first consultation, a number of tests,
including a Computed Tomography (“CT”) Angiogram, were carried out to establish
the Patient’s condition. The results of the CT Angiogram became available the
following day, which was the day of the second consultation. Although the
Patient’s coronary arteries appeared to be in good condition, Dr Lam told
the Patient that he did not consider the CT Angiogram results to be
sufficiently reliable, and advised him to undergo a Conventional Angiogram as
well. Dr Lam also informed the Patient that he should proceed with a PCI
if any high-grade stenosis were found in the course of the Conventional
Angiogram. The second consultation ended with the Patient leaving to consider
Dr Lam’s advice. At the third consultation, Dr Lam again informed the
Patient of his view that the findings from the CT Angiogram were not
sufficiently reliable, and recommended that the Patient undergo a Conventional
Angiogram and, if necessary, a PCI. The Patient accepted Dr Lam’s advice,
and agreed to undergo a Conventional Angiogram and, if necessary, a PCI. He
then signed a consent form for a “Coronary Angiogram Keep in View Coronary
Angioplasty” (“the KIV Form”) at Dr Lam’s clinic. It was Dr Lam’s
case that at the first and third consultations, he explained to the Patient the
benefits, risks and possible complications of a PCI as well as the alternative
treatment options available (collectively “the PCI benefits, risks,
complications and alternatives”).  
6          The Conventional Angiogram was carried out on 18 March
2011. Immediately after the Conventional Angiogram, Dr Lam told the
Patient that there was high-grade stenosis in his proximal Left Anterior
Descending Artery, and advised him that that artery could be opened up by carrying
out a PCI. The Patient agreed to let Dr Lam perform the procedure immediately.
This was then done. The following day, Dr Lam informed the Patient that
two stents had been inserted because the first stent had missed the site of the
stenosis, thus necessitating a second stent. The second stent had slipped back
proximally and protruded partially into the left main stem. It was not disputed
in the appeal that despite this, the Patient did not suffer any harm as a
result of Dr Lam’s actions and his condition in fact improved. 
7          The Patient nevertheless lodged a complaint against
Dr Lam with the SMC on 17 August 2011 alleging that Dr Lam had
performed the PCI when it was unnecessary, and, further, that in doing so, he
had failed to apply the requisite skill. The Patient also mentioned in his
complaint that Dr Lam had carried out the PCI “without even once …
informing [him] or explaining to [him]” the PCI benefits, risks, complications
and alternatives. In response to the complaint, Dr Lam tendered a written
explanation (the “Explanatory Statement”) to the SMC. On 25 September
2015, more than four years after the Patient lodged his complaint, the SMC sent
Dr Lam a Notice of Inquiry setting out three charges, including the charge
for professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the MRA for having failed to
“adequately advise the Patient of all the benefits, risks and possible
complications of the [PCI] procedure and any alternatives available to him”
(“Charge 3”). That charge was the sole subject matter of Dr Lam’s appeal.

8          It was undisputed that Dr Lam’s clinical notes from
his consultations with the Patient did not record that he had explained the PCI
benefits, risks, complications and alternatives to the Patient. However, it was
also undisputed that the Patient had signed the KIV Form, which stated in
general terms that the Patient had been informed of “the nature, purpose, risks
and alternatives” pertaining to a PCI. 
The court’s decision  
9          The court allowed Dr Lam’s appeal and set aside his
conviction on Charge 3. It also set aside the DT’s orders on the sentence
and the costs of the inquiry below. 
10        The following aspects of the court’s
judgment (“the Judgment”) should be noted in particular: 
(a)               
the court took issue with the
ambiguous manner in which Charge 3 had been framed (see para 11 of
this media summary);
(b)              
the court did not find
Dr Lam’s record-keeping satisfactory, but held that the DT had placed undue
emphasis on the lack of contemporaneous documentation of consent-taking in
convicting Dr Lam on Charge 3 (see paras 15 and 18 of this media
summary); 
(c)               
the court stated that it would
expect the SMC to consider preferring charges for failure to keep proper
records in the light of the new requirement relating to record-keeping in the 2016
edition of the SMC ECEG (see para 15 of this media summary); 
(d)              
the court held that the nature
of a doctor’s obligation under Guideline 4.2.2 of the SMC ECEG was to
ensure that the patient was aware of “the benefits, risks and possible complications
of the procedure and any alternatives available to him”, but that did not mean
that the doctor had to mechanically recite such information to the patient without
regard to what the patient already knew (see para 21 of this media
summary); and 
(e)               
the court made some observations regarding the sentencing approach
which should be adopted in disciplinary proceedings against doctors for failure
to obtain informed consent, and also urged the SMC to review its processes to
avoid inordinate delays in future disciplinary proceedings (see
paras 24–26 of this media summary). 
The manner in which
Charge 3 had been framed
11        The court expressed its dissatisfaction
with the ambiguous manner in which Charge 3 had been framed, pointing out
that it was open to at least two possible interpretations. The court reiterated
the importance of framing charges in criminal or quasi-criminal proceedings
with sufficient specificity so that the respondent would be aware of the exact
case which he had to meet (see [31]
and [33] of the Judgment).    
The reasons for the court’s
decision
12        The court held that Dr Lam’s
conviction was unsafe as the DT had failed to give proper consideration to the
following points (see [36] of the Judgment):
(a)        the Patient’s overall credibility, in
view of the inconsistencies in his evidence as well as in the light of how the
DT had received his evidence on the other charges against Dr Lam; 
(b)        the KIV Form
evidencing Dr Lam’s case that the Patient had been advised of the PCI
benefits, risks, complications and alternatives, which had to be carefully
considered in the context of the applicable burden of proof; 
(c)        Dr Lam’s unchallenged evidence as
to his usual practice in obtaining the informed consent of his patients; 
(d)       Dr Lam’s explanation for the brevity
of his Explanatory Statement in relation to Charge 3; and 
(f)               
the Patient’s own awareness of the relevant benefits, risks,
complications and alternative treatment options. 
Preliminary observations by the court
13        Before analysing the above matters in
detail, the court made two preliminary observations. 
14        First, it cautioned that where a court
or tribunal was concerned with the standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt,
it should be mindful that this standard was unlikely to be satisfied if all
that was before it were two competing and equally plausible versions of the
material facts: In re Bramblevale
Ltd [1970] 1 Ch 128 (see [38]–[39] of the Judgment). 
15        Second, it noted that the DT had treated
the lack of contemporaneous documentation of consent-taking by Dr Lam as
virtually conclusive of the SMC’s case on Charge 3, and held that this approach
was “erroneous as a matter of principle” (see [37] of the Judgment). The court explained that since Dr Lam
had been charged with failure to obtain the Patient’s informed consent as
opposed to failure to maintain proper documentation, the lack of
contemporaneous documentation of consent-taking, although relevant to
Charge 3, was merely one factor
to be considered in the light of the
totality of the other evidence before the DT. The court, however, also affirmed
at the same time the importance of proper record-keeping by doctors, stating
that it was crucial for doctors to keep accurate and contemporaneous records of
each and every consultation as such records would serve as a safeguard against
disputes similar to that in the present case from arising (see [37] and [44]–[45] of the Judgment).
The court also noted the new requirement in the 2016 edition of the SMC ECEG
that doctors had to keep “clear, legible, accurate and contemporaneous medical
records of sufficient detail”, and observed that it would expect the SMC to consider
preferring charges for failure to keep proper records in cases similar to the
present case in future (see [46] of
the Judgment). 
Failure to consider the
Patient’s credibility as a whole
16        The court was of the view that on a fair
reading of the Patient’s complaint, its sting lay not in Dr Lam’s alleged failure to inform the Patient of
the PCI benefits, risks, complications and alternatives, but rather, in
Dr Lam’s alleged conduct in essentially pushing and railroading the
Patient into undergoing an unnecessary and “shoddily done” procedure for
monetary gain. The allegation of failure to obtain informed consent was
appended almost as an afterthought. This had a material bearing on how the DT
ought to have approached the evidence on Charge 3, which turned
essentially on whether the DT preferred Dr Lam’s or the Patient’s competing
versions of the material events. 
17        The court held that in considering
Charge 3, the DT should have taken into account: (a) how it had
received the Patient’s evidence on the other two charges against Dr Lam as
those charges formed a much larger part of the dispute; and (b) the fact
that it had rejected the Patient’s testimony on those charges. The court was of
the view that the DT should have explained why, despite its rejection of the
Patient’s testimony on those charges, it nonetheless preferred his testimony on
Charge 3 (see [50] of the Judgment).
The court stated that if the DT had considered the Patient’s testimony in its
entirety, it was implausible that the DT would have accepted the Patient’s
version of the material events so readily (see [54] of the Judgment). 
Failure to give sufficient consideration to the KIV Form and to correctly apply the burden of proof 
18        With regard to the KIV Form, the court
considered that this form was not prolix; neither was the material clause
therein – namely, that the Patient understood “the nature, purpose, risks and
alternatives which were explained to [him] by Dr Lam” – buried in fine
print. Given these circumstances, it was incumbent on the DT to apply its mind
to why the Patient would have signed the KIV Form, even as he maintained that
the very thing which the form said had happened (the explanation of the
aforesaid “nature, purpose, risks and alternatives” to him) had not in fact
happened (see [58] of the Judgment).
Reading the DT’s written decision, the court held that it was driven to
conclude that the DT convicted Dr Lam on Charge 3 based almost
entirely on the lack of documentation of consent-taking alone (see [60] of the Judgment).
This was erroneous for two reasons. First, Charge 3 was not one of failing
to document the taking of the Patient’s consent; the DT had also overlooked the
fact that the KIV Form was, on its face, documentary evidence that Dr Lam had explained to the Patient the PCI
benefits, risks, complications and alternatives (see [61] of the Judgment). Second, the DT failed to consider the absence
of documentation of consent-taking as merely one factor in the overall balance (see [63] of the Judgment). It did not address the critical issue of why
the Patient, whom it found to be confident, knowledgeable, unafraid to raise
issues concerning his medical condition with his doctor and clear about what he
wanted, would, over the course of three consultations, have neglected to make a
single inquiry about the PCI benefits, risks, complications and alternatives
(many of which he was found to have been already aware of) and then merely
signed the KIV Form indicating that these matters had been explained to him by
Dr Lam if no such explanation had in fact been given to him (see [64] of the Judgment). 
Failure to consider Dr Lam’s unchallenged evidence on his
consistent practice in relation to consent-taking
19        The court held that the DT failed to
consider Dr Lam’s unchallenged evidence that his consistent practice was
to explain the “benefits, risks and possible complications” of coronary
procedures such as Conventional Angiograms and PCIs to his patients before
carrying out the procedures (see [67]
of the Judgment). The court accepted that Dr Lam was driven at one point
to base his evidence in this regard on his usual practice, but did not consider
that surprising because Dr Lam had explained that he could not claim to
have a specific recollection of a particular conversation relating to
consent-taking which had occurred some years earlier (see [71] of the Judgment). 
Failure to consider Dr Lam’s explanation for the lack of
details on consent-taking in his Explanatory Statement 
20        The court was of the view that the DT
failed to assess in the right context Dr Lam’s explanation for the
contrast in the level of detail between his Explanatory Statement, which was
fairly brief and prepared closer to the time of his consultations with the
Patient, and his statement of evidence-in-chief, which was much more detailed
and prepared closer to the time of the inquiry, where Charge 3 was
concerned. The DT erred in finding that in the Explanatory Statement, Dr Lam
“made no mention … that he [had] told
the Patient of the risks, complications and alternatives of a PCI” [emphasis
added] when Dr Lam had in fact done so (see [73] of the Judgment). Further, the DT failed to give sufficient
weight to Dr Lam’s testimony as to why his Explanatory Statement was so
brief in responding to the allegation of failure to obtain informed consent (see
[74] of the Judgment). The court was
of the view that Dr Lam’s explanation for this – namely, that he perceived
the sting of the complaint against him to be directed at his clinical expertise
and management of the Patient rather than his alleged failure to obtain the
Patient’s informed consent – was not unreasonable, given that the court took a
similar view on the essence of the complaint (see [76] of the Judgment).  
Failure to take into account the Patient’s own
knowledge
21        The court held that the DT erred in considering
that the Patient’s own knowledge about the PCI benefits, risks, complications
and alternatives was irrelevant to its assessment of Charge 3. Guideline 4.2.2
of the SMC ECEG, which was mirrored in Charge 3, required that it be
proved that Dr Lam had failed to “ensure that the Patient was adequately
informed about his medical condition and options for treatment”. This guideline
did not impose an absolute and unyielding obligation on Dr Lam to mechanically
explain all the PCI benefits, risks,
complications and alternatives to the Patient regardless of his existing
knowledge; instead, it imposed on him only an obligation to ensure that the Patient was apprised of
the relevant information about PCIs. This obligation would be satisfied if
Dr Lam had reasonable grounds to
believe that the Patient was already well-acquainted with such information (see
[77] of the Judgment). The court,
however, also emphasised that where a doctor sought to defend himself against a
charge of failure to obtain informed consent on the basis that the patient was
already familiar with the relevant benefits, risks, complications and
alternative treatment options, the burden was on the doctor to demonstrate that
he had reasonable grounds for believing that the patient was already
sufficiently informed of those matters. In the present case, it was clear that
the Patient already had considerable knowledge of the PCI benefits, risks,
complications and alternatives as he had previously undergone the same
procedure in 2006; and Dr Lam would have been aware of the Patient’s
knowledge in that regard, given that he had not only taken down the Patient’s
medical history but had also had “three full sessions to discuss PCI with [the
Patient]” (see [78] of the Judgment).  
22        The court was of the view that in order
for the SMC to sustain its case on Charge 3 in the way that it had chosen
to run it, the SMC would have had to establish not only that no discussion
between Dr Lam and the Patient on the PCI benefits, risks, complications
and alternatives had taken place at all, but also that Dr Lam, despite his
interactions with the Patient over the course of three consultations, had no
reasonable grounds for thinking that the Patient had any of the knowledge about
PCIs that he in fact had. The court found this improbable in the light of the
DT’s strong findings on the knowledge which the Patient already had in this
regard and the Patient’s attitude during his interactions with Dr Lam (see
[80] of the Judgment).  
General observations
on sentencing 
23        Given the court’s decision to acquit Dr Lam
of Charge 3, the question of sentence did not arise. Nevertheless, the
court made some brief observations on the sentencing approach which should have
been adopted in this case. 
24        First, the court noted that it had taken
“an inordinately long time” for the Patient’s complaint to reach the court, and
pointed out that a delay of this nature could lead to a reduction in sentence
where a doctor was convicted at the end of the disciplinary proceedings against
him. The court urged the SMC to scrutinise its procedures in disciplinary
proceedings so as to avoid such delays in future (see [84] of the Judgment). 
25        Second, given that the maximum fine prescribed
in s 53(2)(e)
of the MRA for an offence of professional misconduct had been increased from
$10,000 to $100,000 in 2010, a doctor who had previously been sentenced to the
statutory minimum period of three months’ suspension could now possibly be sentenced
instead to a high fine, perhaps one at the higher end of the enhanced range
prescribed in s 53(2)(e) (see [88] of the Judgment).  
26        Finally, the court stated that a DT
which was faced with the task of sentencing an errant doctor for professional
misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of
the MRA in the form of a failure to obtain informed consent should consider the
following non-exhaustive list of factors in sentencing (see [90] of the Judgment): 
(a)               
the materiality of the
information that was not explained to the patient; 
(b)              
the extent to which the
patient’s autonomy to make an informed decision on his own treatment had been undermined
as a result of the doctor’s failure to explain the necessary information; and 
(c)               
the possibility of harm and, where applicable, the materiality of the
harm which resulted from the doctor’s failure to explain the necessary
information. 
Conclusion
27        For the foregoing reasons, the court
allowed Dr Lam’s appeal and set aside the DT’s orders on the sentence as
well as the costs of the inquiry. 

This summary is provided to assist in the
understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute
for the reasons of the Court. 
