
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE3 March 2023Case summaryKiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another [2023] SGHC(I) 4Singapore International Commercial Court — Suit No 4 of 2017--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Kannan Ramesh JAD):Outcome: The SICC determines the valuation of Kiri Industries Ltd’s (“Kiri”) shareholding in DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”) to be US$603.8m for the purposes of the buy-out order.Background 1 This matter concerns the longstanding litigation between Kiri and Senda International Capital Ltd (“Senda”). In gist, the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) previously found that Senda was liable for oppressive conduct against Kiri and made a buy-out order. Senda was ordered to purchase Kiri’s 37.57% shareholding in DyStar. In arriving at the value of Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar, one of the issues raised was the compensation to be paid for Zhejiang Longsheng Group Co, Ltd’s (“Longsheng”) unauthorised use of DyStar’s patent to produce certain dyes. 2 The SICC previously found that the concept of a notional licence fee, ie, how much Longsheng would have to pay DyStar to obtain its consent to produce the dyes using the patent, was the appropriate approach to assessing the compensation. The notional licence fee was to be assessed based on the quantity of infringing products produced by Longsheng falling within the scope of the patent (the “Related Products”). The SICC eventually came to a valuation of US$481.6m. On appeal, the Court of Appeal remitted the issue on the value of the notional licence fee back to the SICC to be reassessed based on the best available evidence that was before it on the quantity of the Related Products.3 In the remitted decision, the SICC, upon a robust review of the available evidence, found that the annual tonnage of the Related Products for the purposes of calculating the notional licence fee was 53,550 tonnes. Based on this finding, the SICC invited the parties to submit their revised calculations on the following:(a) the notional licence fee based on 53,550 tonnes for the Related Products; and(b) the valuation of Kiri’s shareholding in Dystar taking into account the notional licence fee, and after adjusting for the fact that discount for lack of marketability is not a relevant adjustment as found by the Court of Appeal.The SICC’s decision4 Pursuant to the SICC’s directions, Kiri’s valuation expert, Ms Harfouche, revised her calculations and arrived at the following figures (which were provided to Senda together with Ms Harfouche’s updated model, and Senda did not have any comments on these):(a) US$25.77m for the notional licence fee based on 53,550 tonnes for the Related Products; and(b) US$603.8m for the valuation of Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar based on the notional licence fee (without any discount for lack of marketability).These were taken to be the parties’ agreed calculations. Thus, the SICC adjudges the final valuation of Kiri’s shares to be US$603.8m for the buy-out order: at [5].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
