
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE3 March 2023Case summaryCLC v CLB [2023] SGCA 10Civil Appeal No. 5 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: CoA allowed appeal against the Appellate Division’s decision on the order for the division of matrimonial assets and held that where a donee spouse has assets originating from gifts or inheritance and has manifested a clear intention to treat such assets as part of the matrimonial pool, the courts should give effect to that intention of the donee spouse.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where the donee spouse manifests a clear and unambiguous intention to treat a gift or inheritance as part of the matrimonial pool, the courts should give effect to the intention of the donee spouse. This was not inconsistent with s 112(10) of the Women’s Charter. •  Appeal allowed as the Husband had demonstrated a clear and unequivocal intention to include the gifted monies as part of the matrimonial pool of assets. Adjusting the direct contribution ratio, the overall ratio of the division of assets worked out to 50:50, instead of the Appellate Division’s decision of 58:42 in favour of the Wife.1 This was an appeal against the order for the division of matrimonial assets under s 112 of the Women’s Charter 1961 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “Women’s Charter”).Background to the appeal2 The statutory regime for the division of matrimonial assets in s 112 of the Women’s Charter excludes from the matrimonial pool assets that have been acquired by gift or inheritance. The rationale for this is twofold: first, it recognises that the donor’s intention may have been to benefit only the donee spouse and not the other spouse, given that the donor is usually related to the donee spouse; and secondly, it acknowledges the need to prevent windfalls accruing to the other party to the marriage, given that division is based generally on contributions made by the spouses during the marriage. Where, however, where the donee spouse manifests a clear and unambiguous intention to treat the asset so acquired as part of the family estate, a question arises as to whether the original rationale for excluding the asset from the matrimonial pool ought to still take precedence, or whether the courts should give effect to the intention of the donee spouse. A further question is how such recognition of the intention of the donee spouse fits with the statutory regime in s 112.Facts3 The respondent Husband had received monetary gifts from his father and had also inherited substantial sums from the father’s estate (the “gifted monies”). On the Husband’s case, the gifted monies had flowed into several bank accounts and investment portfolios that were in his sole name (the “Disputed Assets”). Further, he argued that another Australian bank account in his sole name, an ANZ Account No. ending 55 (“ANZ-55”), was a pre-marriage asset and the money therein was derived from the gifted monies. The High Court judge (the “Judge”) found that even if the original source of the Disputed Assets and ANZ-55 had been the gifted monies, they had been co-mingled with other income and were thus no longer separately identifiable as deriving from gifts and inheritance. The Disputed Assets and ANZ-55 were included in the matrimonial pool. On appeal, however, the Appellate Division of the High Court (the “Appellate Division”) found that the gifted monies had not lost their character as such. It found that, considering the total value of the gifted monies and the total value of the Disputed Assets and ANZ-55, the gifted monies must have gone into the Disputed Assets and ANZ-55. 4 In the appeal before the Court of Appeal, the Wife emphasised that even if the Disputed Assets and ANZ-55 were traceable to the gifted monies, which she did not accept, the Husband had evinced a real and unambiguous intention to treat the gifted monies as part of the family estate. The assets in the Disputed Accounts and ANZ-55 had thus lost their character as gifts. This appeal therefore raised issues of the interplay between s 112 of the Women’s Charter and property law principles, as well as what is required to trace an asset, particularly money in a bank account, to an asset acquired by gift or inheritance.Decision on appeal5 The Court of Appeal held that although s 112(10) of the Women’s Charter did not expressly provide for the intention of the donee spouse to bring non-matrimonial assets into the matrimonial pool, that did not preclude the courts from giving effect to such intention apart from the provision, in accordance with the principles of property law. In other words, nothing in s 112(10) excluded the right of a spouse to deal with his personal asset in any way he or she wished to deal with it, including by bringing it into the family estate: at [36] and [64].6 As to the question of the identifiability of an asset said to be acquired by gift or inheritance, the inquiry is an evidential one, ie, the new asset should be traceable to the asset which constituted the original gift. The burden of proof falls on the party who asserts that an asset was acquired through gift or inheritance and would therefore not be a matrimonial asset to prove the assertion on the balance of probabilities. On the other hand, where an asset is prima facie not a matrimonial asset (eg, a gift), the burden then lies on the party asserting that it is a matrimonial asset to show how it was transformed: at [65]. On the present facts, it was possible to trace the gifted monies into the Disputed Assets and ANZ-55 at [86]–[87].7 The Court found that the Husband had demonstrated a clear and unambiguous intention to treat the Disputed Assets and ANZ-55 as part of the matrimonial pool. This intention was inferred from the correspondence between the Husband and the Wife, in which the Husband regarded the assets that he had acquired by way of gifts or inheritance as part of the family estate: at [88]. Consistent with such an intention, the Husband had placed some of his inheritance monies into the parties’ joint account. Where one of the parties to a marriage places monies derived from non-matrimonial assets into a joint account with the other spouse which can be separately operated by each of them, a rebuttable presumption arises that the transferring spouse intends to share the said monies with the other: at [91]–[92].8 The Disputed Assets and ANZ-55 therefore formed part of the matrimonial pool.  However, the Court excluded the children’s inheritance of S$66,346.71 (being half the sum of S$132,693.42 received by the Husband) from the matrimonial pool. The overall ratio of the division of assets worked out to 50:50, instead of the Appellate Division’s decision of 58:42 in favour of the Wife. The total pool of matrimonial assets valued at S$12,670,096.88 was to be divided equally between the parties: at [97]–[98].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
