
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 November 2023Case summarySyed Fathuddin Putra bin Syed A Rahman v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2023] SGHC 338Magistrate’s Appeal No 9067 and 9103 of 2023/01--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ, Tay Yong Kwang JCA and Vincent Hoong J)(Grounds of decision delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JCA):Outcome: The High Court dismissed two appeals against the sentences imposed for offences committed under the Customs Act 1960 (2020 Rev Ed) (“Customs Act”) as the sentences were not manifestly excessive under the applicable sentencing framework. Pertinent and significant points of the grounds of decision:•  The High Court held that sentencing courts should no longer apply the Public Prosecutor v Pang Shuo [2016] 3 SLR 903 (“Pang Shuo”) framework in respect of the specified offences punishable under s 128L(4) of the Customs Act. Instead, the sentencing framework in Yap Ah Lai v Public Prosecutor [2014] 3 SLR 180 (“Yap Ah Lai”) should apply to the offences from ss 128D to 128I of the Customs Act. The court reserves its decision on the applicability of the Yap Ah Lai framework (or any other appropriate framework) for offences under s 128J and s 128K of the Customs Act: at [52].Background to the appeal1 These are two separate appeals against the sentences imposed in relation to offences committed under the Customs Act. Syed Fathuddin Putra bin Syed A Rahman (“Syed”) is the appellant in HC/MA 9067/2023/01 and Bhawal Sourov (“Bhawal”) is the appellant in HC/MA 9103/2023/01. The respective appeals (collectively, “the Appeals”) were fixed for hearing together as they raised the same legal issue of whether the sentencing framework adopted in the High Court decision of Pang Shuo is an appropriate framework in respect of the specified offences punishable under s 128L(4) of the Customs Act.2 Syed, a Malaysian national (31 years of age), was engaged by an unknown male known as “Abang” to carry out deliveries of duty unpaid cigarettes to various customers, and he was promised $1,000 for each day of work. Syed was later arrested by Customs officers and they found cartons of duty unpaid cigarettes in two vans involved in the delivery. Syed pleaded guilty to one charge of being concerned in the delivery of 262.313kg of duty unpaid cigarettes, an offence under s 128H of the Customs Act (“Delivery Charge”); and another charge of storing 421.344kg of duty unpaid cigarettes, an offence under s 128I(1)(a)(ii) of the Customs Act (“Storage Charge”). Syed consented to four other charges being taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. District Judge Soh Tze Bian considered both the Yap Ah Lai and Pang Shuo framework and sentenced Syed to 11 months’ imprisonment on the Delivery Charge and 20 months’ imprisonment on the Storage Charge. Both sentences were ordered to run consecutively, resulting in a global sentence of 31 months’ imprisonment.3 Bhawal, a Bangladeshi national (32 years of age), was engaged by one “Lo Ta” to collect and deliver duty unpaid cigarettes, and he was promised $25 for making the deliveries. In turn, Bhawal hired one “Lim” to drive him around in a yellow taxi. Bhawal was later arrested in the vicinity of a store, and Customs Officers found duty unpaid cigarettes in the boot of the yellow taxi and also from within the store. After many court mentions and pre-trial conferences over a period of about one year, Bhawal eventually decided to plead guilty to one charge under s 128I(1)(b) of the Customs Act for dealing with 90.367kg of duty unpaid cigarettes (“Excise Duty Charge”) and a corresponding charge for evasion of Goods and Service Tax (“GST”) on those cigarettes (“GST Charge”). District Judge Ng John considered the cases of Yap Ah Lai, Pang Shuo and Wong Jing Ho Samuel v Public Prosecutor [2022] 3 SLR 1009 (“Wong Jing Ho”) in arriving at his decision. DJ Ng then sentenced Bhawal to 40 weeks’ imprisonment for the Excise Duty Charge (reduced to 33 weeks’ imprisonment to take into account the period spent in remand) and ten weeks’ imprisonment for the GST Charge. Both sentences were ordered to run concurrently, resulting in a global sentence of 33 weeks’ imprisonment.4 Syed and Bhawal appealed against their imprisonment terms claiming that they were manifestly excessive.Decision on appeal5 The Pang Shuo framework should not be applied for the specified offences punishable under s 128L(4) of the Customs Act. First, the use of graphical curves turns sentencing into a mathematical exercise which could have the unintended effect of fettering the court’s discretion and risks turning sentencing into a purely arithmetic computation. Second, the sentencing framework in Pang Shuo is overly complex and technical for what it is trying to achieve. Third, the Pang Shuo framework imposes an artificial ceiling on the maximum sentence that can be ordered. Fourth, there is also no guidance in Pang Shuo as to how a sentencing Court should determine the starting point sentence when the quantity of duty unpaid cigarettes exceeds a certain weight in a plead guilty scenario: at [40] to [45].6 The Yap Ah Lai framework should continue to govern most of the specified offences punishable under s 128L(4) of the Customs Act. This would include ss 128H, 128I(1)(a)(ii) and 128I(1)(b) which are the subject of the present Appeals. This framework promotes broad consistency whilst preserving the court’s discretion to make adjustments. This form of sentencing framework is suitable where the offence in question is clearly targeted at a particular mischief which is measurable according to a single metric that assumes primacy in the sentencing analysis: at [46] to [47].7 The Yap Ah Lai sentencing framework should apply to the specified offences in ss 128D to 128I of the Customs Act. This is on the basis that the type of offending acts in the cigarette smuggling chain should not have any serious bearing on the analysis such that significant differentiation should be made. However, the offences under s 128J and s 128K appear to be rather different in nature from the core steps that make up the smuggling chain. The High Court therefore reserved its decision on the applicability of the Yap Ah Lai framework concerning these two provisions: at [49] to [51].8 In relation to Syed, the Delivery Charge and Storage Charge were unrelated and do not form part of a single transaction such that the sentences imposed should run consecutively. Based on the Yap Ah Lai framework, the consecutive sentences for Syed for the Delivery Charge and Storage Charge ought to have been between 48 months’ and 60 months’ imprisonment, which is much higher than the 31 months’ imprisonment imposed by the court below. Therefore, the High Court found that it could not be contended that Syed’s global sentence of 31 months’ imprisonment was manifestly excessive: at [54] to [57].9 In respect of Bhawal, applying the Yap Ah Lai framework to Bhawal’s case, the indicative starting range for the Excise Duty Charge would be six to 12 months’ imprisonment. Bhawal was sentenced to 40 weeks’ (or approximately 9.2 months’) imprisonment (with a further downward adjustment to 33 weeks to take into account the period in remand). The High Court held that this sentence was within the sentencing range and was not manifestly excessive. There was also the GST Charge for which a concurrent sentence of ten weeks’ imprisonment was correctly imposed: at [58] to [61].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
