
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 March 2023Case summaryTamar Perry and another v Jacques Henri Georges Esculier and another [2023] SGCA(I) 2Civil Appeal from the Singapore International Commercial Court No 7 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against decision dismissing investors’ claim in trust against other investors in a Ponzi scheme. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Even though the company which the appellants had transferred funds to was not a party to the asset management agreements (the “AMAs”) under which the appellants transferred the funds, the appellants’ transfers were made pursuant to the AMAs: at [39]–[40].•  Swiss law was the governing law because the AMAs under which the appellants had transferred funds contained an express choice of Swiss law: at [43].•  As Swiss law did not recognise the concept of a trust, the appellants’ claim in trust against the respondents failed: at [51].Background to the appeal1 The appellants and the respondents were unsuspecting victims of a Ponzi scheme administered by a group of five companies (collectively referred to as “Lexinta”) with their main office in Switzerland. From April 2016 to August 2017, the appellants transferred funds to the bank account in Hong Kong of one of the Lexinta companies, Lexinta Group Limited (“LGL”), for investment. The respondents were earlier investors and first transferred funds to Lexinta in April 2014. The respondents subsequently decided to realise their investments and received a total sum of approximately US$10 million between August 2016 and February 2017 from LGL (the “Disputed Moneys”). The Disputed Moneys were paid into the respondents’ account with DBS in Singapore.2 LGL was not a party to the AMAs under which the appellants and the respondents made their investments. Only three of the Lexinta companies were defined in the AMAs as constituting the “Lexinta Group”. The Lexinta Group was the “Asset Manager” and counterparty to the AMAs.3 Faced with competing claims to the Disputed Moneys by the appellants and the respondents, DBS commenced interpleader proceedings in the High Court of Singapore by way of HC/OS 1016/2019 (“OS 1016”). The competing claims were ordered to be determined in separate proceedings between the appellants and the respondents, which later came to be SIC/S 4/2020 (“Suit 4”).4 In Suit 4, the appellants claimed that the Disputed Moneys were not the respondents’ return on their investment and that Lexinta had been operating a Ponzi scheme before the respondents’ first investment in April 2014. The appellants further argued that since LGL was not a party to the AMAs, LGL held the funds on trust for the appellants pursuant to Hong Kong law. Moreover, the respondents had notice of the appellants’ claim to the Disputed Moneys when they received the Disputed Moneys from LGL and therefore held the same on trust for the appellants as well.5 The International Judge (the “Judge”) dismissed the appellants’ claim. The Judge found that the Ponzi scheme had been in operation at the latest from 2015 but that he could not identify its start date. He dismissed the appellants’ claim in trust finding that LGL was an implied party to the AMAs. The Judge further considered that even if LGL was not a party to the AMAs, the appellants’ claim would still fail because Swiss law, which was the applicable law, did not recognise the concept of a trust. Even if Hong Kong law or Singapore law applied, the Judge found that the respondents were bona fide purchasers for value without notice. The Judge allowed the respondents’ counterclaim for an award of damages arising from the freezing of the Disputed Moneys in their DBS account.Decision on appeal6 For the appellants to prove that the Disputed Moneys received by the respondents were not “genuine” returns on their investment, it sufficed to show that the funds the respondents received were in fact the funds transferred by the appellants to LGL. This point could not be seriously denied given the close proximity in time between the appellants’ transfers to LGL and LGL’s transfers to the respondents: at [21]–[23].7 The Judge was entitled to find that the start date of the Ponzi scheme was “not proved” within the meaning of s 3(5) of the Evidence Act 1893 (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed), and this finding was not against the weight of the evidence. In any case, whether there was a Ponzi scheme or not only assumed significance if Swiss law was not the governing law: at [26], [29] and [34].8 To the extent that the Judge found LGL to be a party to the AMAs by implication, the Court held that this finding was neither necessary nor correct. The relevant inquiry was whether the appellants’ transfers to LGL were made pursuant to the AMAs. The Court held that this was the case because the appellants’ transfers were clearly made for the purpose of the investment under the AMAs. The appellants’ submission that they transferred the funds to LGL for LGL to transfer to the “Asset Manager” was not borne out by the evidence and ignored the fact that absent the AMAs, the transfers to LGL would never have taken place: at [38]–[40].9 Since the transfers were made pursuant to the AMAs, Swiss law applied as the express choice of law. In any event, neither of the other two competing laws – Singapore law as the lex situs of the Disputed Moneys or Hong Kong law as the law of the place of LGL’s incorporation – could apply as the governing law. The “legal foundation” of the appellants’ claim was the AMAs. Moreover, the quality of the AMAs as the very reason for the investments outweighed the quality of the other connecting factors with either Singapore law or Hong Kong law: at [43], [46]–[47].10 The appellants did not challenge the Judge’s findings under Swiss law. In any case, the appellants’ claim could not succeed under Swiss law as it was never alleged that the respondents had acted in bad faith or were complicit in the Ponzi scheme and  under Swiss law, payment by LGL to the respondents did discharge the Lexinta Group’s obligations to the respondents under the AMA. Finally, there was no merit to the appellants’ alternative case that they could nevertheless recover the portion of the Disputed Moneys representing the interest on the respondents’ principal investment even if the respondents were entitled to retain their principal investment sum: at [48]–[53].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
