
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 February 2023 Case summaryA Steven s/o Paul Raj v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGCA 9 Court of Appeal – Criminal Motion No 26 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismisses an application under s 394H(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “CPC”) for permission to make a review application in respect of an earlier judgment of the Court of Appeal. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The applicant’s argument that the Court of Appeal erred in not attempting to apportion the quantity of the drugs in his possession which was meant for his own consumption (the “Apportionment Argument”) could have been raised earlier with reasonable diligence and is not based on a change in the law. •  Although the Apportionment Argument would have been inconsistent with the applicant’s total consumption defence in the prior proceedings, that is a consequence of the applicant’s own decision, and does not constitute a basis for arguing that the Apportionment Argument could not have been adduced earlier with reasonable diligence under s 394J(3)(b) of the CPC. The consequence of the applicant’s decision to pursue a total consumption defence is that he must accept the risk that the Apportionment Argument may undermine his primary defence, and that in his endeavour to establish his primary defence, he may be compelled to deny a lower rate of consumption with the result that there is no credible and reliable evidence of his actual rate of consumption for the court to undertake any meaningful apportionment: at [26] and [28].•  The Court of Appeal’s earlier decision not to apportion the quantity of drugs meant for the applicant’s own consumption is not demonstrably wrong as it was not possible to perform any meaningful apportionment of the drugs in the absence of any credible and reliable evidence: (a) that part of the drugs was meant for the applicant’s own consumption; (b) of the applicant’s daily rate of consumption of the relevant drug; and (c) of the duration which the drugs were meant to last the applicant for: at [34]–[40].  •  As the cumulative requirements under s 394J of the CPC were not satisfied, the application was dismissed: at [49]. Background to the appeal and material facts 1 The applicant ordered two bundles of diamorphine from his Malaysian drug supplier on 23 October 2017. He received the bundles on 24 October 2017 and was arrested by officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) on the same day. The two bundles of diamorphine were analysed and found to contain 901.5g of granular/powdery substance containing not less than 35.85g of diamorphine (the “Relevant Drugs”). 2 The applicant was charged under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “MDA”) with one charge of trafficking in a controlled drug. At the trial, the applicant did not dispute his possession of the Relevant Drugs or that he knew that the Relevant Drugs were diamorphine. The only defence raised by the applicant to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17(c) of the MDA was that the Relevant Drugs were meant solely for his own consumption, and not for trafficking to anyone else. He claimed to be a heavy user of diamorphine, smoking two to three packets of 8g of diamorphine per day. 3 The trial judge (the “Judge”) found that the applicant failed to establish his total consumption defence on a balance of probabilities and convicted the applicant of the charge against him. On appeal in CA/CCA 24/2021 (“CCA 24”), the applicant’s case was similarly confined to his total consumption defence. The Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s decision that the applicant had failed to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17(c) of the MDA and dismissed the applicant’s appeal against his conviction and sentence. 4 The applicant brought the present application under s 394H(1) of the CPC for permission to make a review application in respect the Court of Appeal’s decision in CCA 24. The applicant submits that the Court of Appeal in CCA 24 erred in not attempting to apportion the quantity of the Relevant Drugs which was meant for his own consumption, notwithstanding that the Court of Appeal had rejected his total consumption defence, ie, the Apportionment Argument. Decision5 The court’s revisionary powers may be invoked either through the Court of Appeal’s inherent power to reopen a concluded criminal appeal or through an appellate court’s statutory power to review its earlier decision under s 394I of the CPC. An applicant’s choice between the two avenues would not affect the substance of the review application since the requirements for the latter (as set out under s 394J of the CPC) mirror the requirements for the former. Accordingly, if the material put forth by the applicant did not satisfy the requirements under s 394J of the CPC, the court cannot exercise its inherent power to reopen a concluded criminal appeal on the basis of the same material: at [18] and [19]. 6 To obtain permission under s 394H(1) of the CPC to make a review application, the application had to disclose a legitimate basis for the exercise of the appellate court’s power of review and the applicant had to show that the material it would be relying on is almost certain to satisfy all of the cumulative requirements in s 394J of the CPC: at [20]. Whether ss 394J(3)(b) and s 394J(4) of the CPC are satisfied 7 Where the applicant relies on legal arguments, the criterion of non-availability under s 394J(3)(b) of the CPC will ordinarily only be satisfied if the legal arguments are made following a change in the law (which is reflected in s 394J(4) of the CPC). The Apportionment Argument could have been raised before the Court of Appeal in CCA 24 with reasonable diligence as it would have been clear from the Judge’s decision that the Judge had not apportioned the quantity of the Relevant Drugs meant for the applicant’s own consumption. The Apportionment Argument is also not based on a change in the law arising from a decision made after the conclusion of the applicant’s criminal proceedings: at [23] and [25].8 The applicant’s submission that the Apportionment Argument could not have been adduced earlier as it would have undermined his total consumption defence was rejected. The factual consequence of the applicant’s decision to pursue a total consumption defence is that he must accept the risk that the Apportionment Argument may undermine his primary total consumption defence and that in his endeavour to establish his primary defence, he may be compelled to deny a lower rate of consumption with the result that there is no credible and reliable evidence of his actual rate of consumption for the court to undertake any meaningful apportionment. Having elected to exclusively pursue the total consumption defence in the prior proceedings, it is too late for the applicant to rely on unproved evidence to advance the Apportionment Argument: at [26] and [28]. Whether ss 394J(2) and 394J(3)(c) of the CPC are satisfied 9 Before any meaningful apportionment of the Relevant Drugs in an accused person’s possession can be made, there must be credible evidence that part of those drugs was intended for his consumption, which in turn entailed an inquiry as to whether there is credible and reliable evidence of: (a) his daily rate of consumption of the relevant drug; and (b) the number of days the supply of drugs in his possession was meant to last for, which should be assessed in connection with the frequency of supply. The burden of proof lies on the accused person to adduce evidence of these matters, and the mere say-so of the accused person would not suffice as credible or reliable evidence: at [31] and [32].10 The Court of Appeal’s decision in CCA 24 not to apportion the quantity of the Relevant Drugs meant for the applicant’s personal consumption is not demonstrably wrong as it was not possible to meaningfully apportion the Relevant Drugs in the absence of any credible and reliable evidence: (a) that part of the Relevant Drugs was meant for the applicant’s own consumption; (b) of the applicant’s daily rate of consumption of diamorphine; and (c) of the duration which the Relevant Drugs were meant to last the applicant for: at [34]–[40].11 The Court of Appeal’s decision in CCA 24 also cohered with the relevant authorities where apportionment for personal consumption was undertaken by the court: at [41]–[47].12 As the cumulative requirements set out under s 394J of the CPC are not satisfied, the present application was summarily dismissed without being set down for hearing: at [49].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
