
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 November 2023Case SummaryUniCredit Bank AG v Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd [2023] SGCA 41Civil Appeal No. 9 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Judgment of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Belinda Ang Saw Ean JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal (the "Court") dismisses the appeal, finding that Glencore was not liable to UniCredit Bank in the tort of deceit. Pertinent and significant observations of the judgment•  The juridical basis of the tort of deceit is different from the fraud exception to the principle of autonomy of a letter of credit. While both are concerned with fraud, the former deals with vindicating the right not to be lied to, which is premised on parties’ private interests. The fraud exception, however, is founded on public policy which is, as per Lord Diplock in United City Merchants (Investments) Ltd v Royal Bank of Canada [1983] 1 AC 168, an application of the maxim ex turpi causa non oritur actio, or if plain English is preferred: “fraud unravels all”. The rationale for this juridical basis for the fraud exception is the courts’ refusal to allow their process to be used by a dishonest litigant to carry out a fraud: at [16]. •  The fraud exception usually relates to documents that may be forged or untrue in relation to the consignment of goods to which the documents refer. The fraud exception is typically invoked where the documents on their face appear to be correct, but the seller may have shipped non-conforming goods or shipped no goods at all, or the bills of lading were forged or false in that they were antedated to show shipment within a stipulated shipping time specified under the credit: at [48]. •  As to the sort of representations of intention that may be drawn from a promise made, this would depend on the type of promise that has been made. It is important to determine exactly what was promised and also consider what the promise says about the probability of the promisor’s performance. Statements of general principle are not entirely useful, and the court would be slow to resort to generalisations in assessing whether there had been an implied representation of intent arising out of a promise made. The analysis of what implied representations of intention may be drawn from a promise made is a nuanced one that will ultimately turn on what had been said and the context in which it had been said. The inquiry to be undertaken is necessarily fact-centric; in ascertaining whether there is an implied intention represented in a contractual promise, one must have recourse to the relevant circumstances and the context in which the promise was made as well as to what exactly had been promised: at [85] – [86].  Introduction1 This was an appeal against the decision of a Judge of the General Division of the High Court in UniCredit Bank AG v Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd [2022] SGHC 263. 2 The appellant, UniCredit, had on 22 November 2019, granted to Hin Leong Trading (Pte) Ltd (“Hin Leong”) banking facilities amounting to US$85m. This was done pursuant to a Facility Agreement and Memorandum of Pledge, as well as UniCredit’s General Business Conditions. Hin Leong could use these facilities to obtain letters of credit to finance the purchase of oil, petroleum products and other commodities. Five days later, on 27 November 2019, Hin Leong made use of the facility arrangement and applied to UniCredit for an irrevocable letter of credit in the sum of US$37,209,550.35 to finance its purchase of 150,000 metric tons of High-Sulphur Fuel Oil (the “goods”) from Glencore. This transaction between Glencore and Hin Leong set the stage for the dispute between UniCredit and Glencore.3 By a contract made on 27 November 2019 (the “Sale Contract”) Hin Leong purchased the goods shipped onboard the oil tanker New Vision and agreed that the discharge and delivery of the goods would be to a terminal in Singapore during the period of 18 to 25 December 2019. By a separate contract concluded at the same time, Glencore agreed to buy the goods back from Hin Leong (the “Buyback Contract”). The basic terms of the contracts were also contained in an email sent by Hin Leong to Glencore on 27 November 2019. One of the terms of the sale by Glencore to Hin Leong was that at 0001 hours on 2 December 2019, title to the goods would pass from Glencore to Hin Leong. There was an identical term in the contract for the sale from Hin Leong to Glencore. The upshot was that the parties agreed that title to the goods would pass from Glencore to Hin Leong at 0001 hours on 2 December 2019 and then immediately pass back to Glencore from Hin Leong.4 On 27 November 2019, Hin Leong submitted to UniCredit an application for an irrevocable letter of credit to finance the Sale Contract. A request was then made by UniCredit on 28 November 2019 for documents, including the sale and purchase contracts and/or a “deal recap”. Hin Leong responded on the same day, clarifying that its application for a letter of credit was for “[u]nsold cargo”. While this was what Hin Leong told Unicredit, in truth, Hin Leong had already contracted to sell the goods back to Glencore. Hin Leong provided UniCredit with a copy of the Sale Contract but did not disclose the sale from Hin Leong to Glencore (at [3]).5 Hin Leong submitted a revised application for an irrevocable letter of credit on 28 November 2019, and UniCredit subsequently issued an irrevocable letter of credit in favour of Glencore as beneficiary on 29 November 2019 (“the November LC”). The November LC was subject to The Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (2007 Revision) (ICC Publication No 600). It stated that the credit thereunder would be available against the presentation of various stipulated documents such as a signed commercial invoice, and a full set of all three original bills of lading (“BLs”) issued or endorsed to the order of “UniCredit Bank AG, Singapore Branch” and marked “freight payable as per charter party”. The November LC further provided that in the event that the documents called for were unavailable at the time of presentation or negotiation, payment would be effected against the beneficiary’s commercial invoice and the beneficiary’s letter of indemnity duly signed by authorised signatory(s). Hin Leong had provided UniCredit with the format and wording of the beneficiary’s letter of indemnity for payment when it first applied for the November LC on 27 November 2019. Significantly, the addressee and recipient of the beneficiary’s letter of indemnity was Hin Leong. The format and wording of the beneficiary’s letter of indemnity were reproduced in the November LC (the “Glencore LOI”) without any amendment.   6  On 2 December 2019, Glencore presented the following documents to UniCredit for payment under the November LC:a. Glencore’s commercial invoice for the Sale Contract which was addressed to Hin Leong; and b. The Glencore LOI which was addressed to Hin Leong and worded in accordance with the format prescribed in the November LC.7 On 3 December 2019, UniCredit informed Hin Leong that the documents under the November LC were presented and that UniCredit had determined the documents to be a complying presentation. UniCredit duly paid Glencore. More importantly, when UniCredit paid Glencore on 3 December 2019, it still did not know that Glencore had already bought back the goods. 8 After the November LC matured on 28 February 2020, UniCredit again asked Hin Leong if it had sold the goods, and if so, to provide documents relating to that sale. Hin Leong informed UniCredit that the goods remained unsold, which was untrue given that Hin Leong had on 2 December 2019 resold the goods to Glencore. 9 Slightly more than a month later, on 13 April 2020, UniCredit issued a notice of demand to Hin Leong, demanding repayment of, inter alia, the outstanding advances and accrued interest arising out of UniCredit’s financing of Hin Leong’s purchase of goods from Glencore. At this point, Hin Leong had requested a meeting with its bank lenders, including UniCredit. A day later, on 14 April 2020, UniCredit asked Glencore if it had the original BLs referred to in the LC. Glencore replied that it did not. 10 Hin Leong was placed under interim judicial management on 27 April 2020 and under judicial management on 7 August 2020. Hin Leong went into liquidation on 8 March 2021. Hin Leong’s insolvency left UniCredit without repayment from Hin Leong and without possession of the goods or the original BLs as security for Hin Leong’s indebtedness to UniCredit. UniCredit turned to Glencore for redress. 11 UniCredit sued Glencore on 20 October 2020 vide HC/S 1007/2020 and based its claim on multiple causes of action. They were as follows: a. Recission of the November LC because the Sale Contract was a sham and/or fictitious transaction. b. Fraud or deceit by Glencore. c. Conspiracy between Glencore and Hin Leong to injure UniCredit by unlawful means. d. Unjust enrichment.e. A claim under a Master Discounting Agreement dated 8 August 2014 between UniCredit and Glencore Grain Singapore Pte Ltd (which was later amalgamated into Glencore) as the terms of this agreement permitted UniCredit to seek recourse for losses suffered in specified circumstances.f. Breach of the Glencore LOI pursuant to the Contract (Rights of Third Parties) Act (Cap 53B) and/or common law. 12 The Judge dismissed all UniCredit’s claims. UniCredit appealed against the Judge’s dismissal of their cause of action in the tort of deceit.The Court’s decision13 In advancing its case on the tort of deceit in this appeal, UniCredit sought to invoke the fraud exception. This exception did not apply in the present case because there was no fraud on the documents: at [44] – [52]. 14 UniCredit’s cause of action in deceit was ill-founded for the following three reasons. First, UniCredit could not establish that Glencore had made the representations as alleged to UniCredit. For one, the Glencore LOI was not addressed to UniCredit. This would have made it clear to any reasonable bank in UniCredit’s position, not only what the nature of that document was, but also that its contents were not directed at and promised to UniCredit. Further, when one read the Glencore LOI in its entirety, it could not be said that Glencore had impliedly represented to either UniCredit or Hin Leong that it intended to find and deliver the BLs to Hin Leong. What the Glencore LOI had contemplated was that the underlying transaction was one in which it could well be the case that no BLs were eventually delivered, and should this come to pass, Glencore had undertaken to indemnify Hin Leong against any losses. Further, it was clear that there was no fraudulent intention on Glencore’s part. The Sale and Buyback Arrangement was an entirely legitimate transaction and not part of a larger scheme hatched by Glencore, or between Glencore and Hin Leong, to defraud UniCredit: at [53] – [63]. 15 Second, no representation, as formulated, was made by Glencore let alone any lie told to UniCredit. The crux of UniCredit’s complaint was that Glencore knew that Hin Leong was not going to ask for the BLs, because both Glencore and Hin Leong had entered into the Sale and Buyback Arrangement where title to the goods had passed to Hin Leong and back to Glencore, and so Glencore had never intended to find and surrender the BLs to Hin Leong. This argument, however, disregarded the manner in which Glencore had financed the repurchase of the goods, which demonstrated that there was always the possibility that Hin Leong would demand the BLs from Glencore: at [67] – [74].16 Third, the facts also demonstrated that UniCredit’s loss could not be laid at Glencore’s door. UniCredit had issued the LC in Glencore’s favour because it had been told by Hin Leong that the goods had remained unsold, when in truth, Hin Leong had resold the goods back to Glencore. Had UniCredit known about this, the terms on which it extended financing to Hin Leong would have been very different: at [75] – [80]. 17 Finally, there was no fraud to be found on the facts. The Sale and Buyback Arrangement was not some sham agreement forming part of a larger scheme aimed at defrauding UniCredit. Glencore had simply used well-established avenues of commercial trading and financing to its advantage. It realised that it could obtain a loan at a lower interest rate by selling the goods to a willing counterparty and having the repurchase of those goods financed by its bank, BBVA. As the Judge correctly found, the structure of the transactions as a simultaneous sell and buyback was not determinative of whether the Sale Contract was a sham. More importantly, the Judge had also found that Glencore had checked that it did have title to pass to Hin Leong, which showed that it genuinely wanted to have title in time to transfer it to Hin Leong. This was therefore not a sham agreement involving the trading of fictious goods. Hin Leong too enjoyed a benefit under the Sale and Buyback Arrangement which effectively gave it a loan for the sum of roughly US$37m. The one crucial wrinkle in this entire arrangement for UniCredit was that Hin Leong had not been truthful when it applied for the November LC from UniCredit. This was only exposed when Hin Leong became insolvent and was unable to pay the sums owed to UniCredit. More importantly, the Judge held that Glencore was not privy or party to Hin Leong’s lie to UniCredit. UniCredit did not appeal against this finding: at [65] – [66]. Conclusion18 The appeal was dismissed. UniCredit was to pay Glencore the costs of the appeal, fixed at $100,000, including disbursements: at [88].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
