
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE22 February 2023Case summaryTan Beng Hui Carolyn v Law Society of Singapore [2023] SGCA 7Court of Appeal – Civil Appeal No 16 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Belinda Ang Saw Ean JCA):  Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal by the appellant advocate and solicitor against the $10,000 penalty imposed by the Law Society of Singapore. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  The appeal was not a case relating to administrative law and should not have been made to the Court of Appeal. It was not brought by way of judicial review for which leave would have been required under O 53 r 1 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed). The reliefs sought were not those made available by judicial review, and the appellant sought to challenge the merits of the Law Society’s determination, not the legality of it: at [27], [33], [34], [35].•  The scope of the court’s review under s 95 of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”), while not a full merits review, could extend to scrutinising the basis of a decision of the Council of the Law Society (the “Council”). This is because s 95 empowers the court to vary or set aside a penalty ordered by the Council: at [43].Background to the appeal1 The Appellant, Tan Beng Hui Carolyn, is an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court of Singapore and a partner in Tan & Au LLP. Whilst acting as an advocate and solicitor in a matter before the General Division of the High Court in HC/OS 1100/2017 (“OS 1100”) in September 2018, the Appellant made several allegations against the counsel for the other parties (namely, counsel from Central Chambers Law Corporation (“CCLC”) and Yeo-Leong & Peh LLC (“YLP”)), as well as against Dedar Singh Gill JC (as he then was) (“Gill JC”) who heard OS 1100. Complaints were made by counsel from CCLC and YLP (the “Complainants”) to the Law Society over the Appellant’s conduct.2 On 13 September 2018, the Complainants informed Gill JC that Tan & Au LLP had included in their Bundle of Documents a document that was not in evidence. Gill JC directed that the new document was not to be admitted. Shortly thereafter, Tan & Au LLP filed a recusal application against Gill JC. In the Appellant’s supporting affidavit (the “Recusal Affidavit”), she made certain allegations against Gill JC as well as some of the Complainants, which formed the subject matter of the complaints against her. CCLC invited Tan & Au LLP to remove parts of the Recusal Affidavit, on the basis that they contained allegations against other legal practitioners made without giving them a chance to respond. Tan & Au LLP refused to do so. 3 Further, on 17 September 2018, Tan & Au LLP filed its Bundle of Documents, which still contained the new evidence on page 98 (“Page 98”). YLP invited Tan & Au LLP to remove Page 98, as Gill JC had directed its exclusion. The Appellant declined, and responded by e-mail on 20 September 2018 (the “20 September 2018 E-mail”) to one Mr David Kong, a solicitor of YLP. In the 20 September 2018 E-mail, the Appellant claimed that she had left several messages for Mr Kong, and her calls had not been returned. Mr Kong filed an affidavit to refute the allegation, stating that he did not receive any calls from the Appellant.4 On 25 September 2018, Gill JC allowed CCLC’s and YLP’s striking out applications for impugned portions of the Recusal Affidavit and Page 98 to be removed, and dismissed the recusal application. After the hearing, Tan & Au LLP wrote to request to make further arguments on 28 September 2018 (the “Request for Further Arguments”), where another allegation against Mr Kong was raised. The Appellant alleged that Mr Kong had lied on oath when he said on affidavit that he had not received any calls from the Appellant and thus committed perjury, as the Appellant had in fact made several phone calls to him and left several messages. The Appellant had also lodged a police report on 27 September 2018, essentially repeating the same allegation.5 The Appellant’s Request for Further Arguments was dismissed by Gill JC, who found that Mr Kong’s affidavit was referring to the fact that no calls were made on 20 September, and not that no calls were made on 13 September. Subsequently, on 12 October 2018, Tan & Au LLP filed closing submissions in OS 1100, repeating the same allegations which were ordered to be struck out by Gill JC.  6 The Complainants lodged 13 complaints with the Law Society on 26 October 2018 against the Appellant and/or one Mr Au Thye Chuen (“Mr Au”), another partner with Tan & Au LLP. The present appeal concerned three categories of complaints against the Appellant: (a) the failure to accord respect to other legal practitioners, through her allegations against Mr Kong (breach of rr 7(1) and 7(2) of the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 (“PCR”)); (b)  the failure to be respectful of a court, through her remarks about Gill JC (breach of r 13 of the PCR); and (c) the failure to provide other solicitors with the opportunity to respond to allegations, particularly her allegation of perjury against Mr Kong (breach of r 29 of the PCR).7 An Inquiry Committee (“IC”) was convened and recommended in its report (the “IC Report”) that the rr 13 and 29 breaches be referred to a DT for formal investigation, and the breach of r 7 not be referred but that a penalty be imposed. The Law Society adopted these findings and determinations.  8 The DT found the rr 13(2) and 29 breaches to have been established. The Council accepted the DT’s findings and determined that a penalty of $10,000 should be imposed for the breaches of rr 7(1), 7(2), 13(2) and 29 of the PCR. This determination was conveyed to the Appellant in a letter dated 8 April 2021 (the “8 April 2021 Letter”).9 On 3 May 2021, the Appellant applied by way of HC/OS 432/2021 to have the court review and set aside the decision of the Council under s 95 of the LPA. The Judge dismissed the application, finding that the penalty imposed was in line with relevant precedents and was justified by the relevant aggravating factors. At the hearing, the Judge had also observed that the 8 April 2021 Letter did not accurately capture the nature of the Appellant’s breach of r 7 of the PCR, which was for the making of allegations against Mr Kong rather than the making of “false” allegations. Thereafter, the Law Society issued a clarification letter (the “Clarification Letter”) removing the word “false”. The Appellant then filed further submissions essentially seeking a review of the entirety of the Law Society’s determination. The Appellant argued that the Law Society had conflated her allegation of criminal conduct with an allegation of professional misconduct against Mr Kong. The Judge found no basis for the Appellant to seek such a review, and, in any event, no conflation of allegations. 10 The Appellant filed her appeal before the Court of Appeal. She argued that the appeal should be heard by the Court of Appeal and not the Appellate Division of the High Court, as the appeal concerned a case relating to administrative law. The Law Society disagreed. The Appellant also sought to challenge the Law Society’s determination on the basis that the Law Society acted outside its jurisdiction when it effectively disciplined the Appellant for making a criminal complaint, when such a matter was to be determined by a criminal court. The Appellant also submitted that the Law Society’s reply affidavit for OS 432 contained hearsay.The decision of the Court 11 The Appellate Division was the correct forum to hear the appeal, as OS 432 was not a case relating to administrative law and therefore did not fall within paragraph 1(a) of the Sixth Schedule to the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (2020 Rev Ed): at [27]. 12 First, OS 432 was an application made pursuant to s 95 of the LPA. It was not commenced by way of judicial review for which the Appellant would have needed to obtain leave under O 53 r 1 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed). The reliefs sought were the review and setting aside of the Council’s decision, and not reliefs provided by judicial review: at [33]. 13 Second, the grounds of application under OS 432 pertained to the merits of the Council’s determination, rather than the legality of it. The Appellant also sought to challenge the appropriateness of the penalty imposed, which entailed a substantive review of the merits of the Council’s determination, as the court could potentially substitute the penalty imposed. The basis of this penalty review was statutory, and not found in administrative law judicial review powers: at [34], [35].14 Although the Appellant raised contentions on appeal that the Council had acted ultra vires, as the IC Report made clear, the Council did not sanction the Appellant for making a police report as such, but for repeatedly making serious allegations against a fellow legal practitioner. There was no issue of illegality in the Council’s exercise of jurisdiction: at [37], [49].15 There was also no prejudice caused to the Appellant when the Clarification Letter removed the reference to the allegations being “false”. The IC made it explicit that its findings were not based on the allegations being false. In any event, an allegation of prejudice, without more, did not render this case one relating to administrative law: [39], [40], [44]. 16 In exercising its powers of review under s 95 of the LPA, the court could scrutinise the basis of the Council’s decision, since it had the power to vary or set aside the penalty pursuant to ss 95(3)(a) and 95(3)(b) of the LPA. This was consistent with the holding in Law Society of Singapore v Ang Boon Kong Lawrence [1992] 3 SLR(R) 825 at [10], that where an Inquiry Committee’s recommendations were wrongly or improperly arrived at and considered by the Council, this may be a reviewable matter as the Council may have taken extraneous matters into consideration. This was in contrast to s 97 of the LPA, which does not allow the court to decide on any penalty: at [43]. 17 The appeal was completely without merit. There was no breach of natural justice as the Appellant was not prejudiced by the Clarification Letter; the Appellant was also given the opportunity to be heard: at [45].18 The Law Society’s representative’s affidavit did not contain inadmissible hearsay. The impugned portions outlined events that had been included in public records falling within the exception to the hearsay rule under s 37 of the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed). They also qualified as statements made by a person in the ordinary course of a trade, business, profession or other occupation under s 32(1)(b) of the Evidence Act: at [46], [47].19 The penalty of $10,000 was appropriate. It was a global sum in respect of three distinct breaches of the PCR and was not out of line with the precedents. It was also justified by the Appellant’s lack of remorse and repeated making of allegations, which were aggravating: at [50], [51].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
