
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE20 February 2023Case summaryMilaha Explorer Pte Ltd v Pengrui Leasing (Tianjin) Co Ltd [2022] SGCA 6Court of Appeal – Civil Appeal No 2 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal allows the appeal and sets aside the Mareva injunction granted by the Judge against the appellant. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  In determining whether there is a real risk of dissipation of assets when the grant of a Mareva injunction is sought, the key inquiry is whether there is “solid evidence” of an objective and real risk that a judgment may not be satisfied because of a risk of unjustified dealings with assets.•  The foreign origin or foreign connection of a company/person is a relevant factor, but cannot conclusively lead to a finding of a real risk of dissipation of assets. In this connection, the mere fact that a defendant holds its assets through offshore structures or by way of special purpose vehicles is not in itself evidence of a risk of dissipation.•  In deciding whether to grant a Mareva injunction, the court should balance the effects of the Mareva injunction on the defendant against the potential prejudice or loss that would be caused to the claimant.Background to the appeal1 Milaha Explorer Pte Ltd (“Milaha”), the appellant, is a company incorporated in Singapore for the purpose of owning its sole asset, a vessel called the “Milaha Explorer” (the “Vessel”). Milaha’s ultimate beneficial owner is Qatari Navigation QPSC (“Qatari Navigation”), a public company listed on the Qatar stock exchange.2 On 31 May 2021, Milaha and Pengrui Leasing (Tianjin) Co Ltd (“Pengrui”), the respondent, entered into a memorandum of agreement (“MOA”) for the sale of the Vessel from Milaha to Pengrui. Shortly thereafter, a dispute over the MOA arose. Milaha alleged that Pengrui was in repudiatory breach of the MOA, and gave notice to Pengrui in a letter dated 12 August 2021 (the “12 August 2021 Letter”) that it was cancelling the MOA and exercising its contractual right under clause 13 of the MOA (the “buyer’s default clause”) to sell the Vessel. Pengrui disputed Milaha’s invocation of the buyer’s default clause and commenced arbitration proceedings in London pursuant to the arbitration clause in the MOA.3 On 20 August 2021, Pengrui filed an ex parte application seeking a Mareva injunction against Milaha in aid of the London arbitration. The injunction was granted by the judge of the General Division of the High Court’s (the “Judge”), who dismissed Milaha’s subsequent application to set aside the injunction. The injunction prohibited Milaha from dealing with its assets, including the Vessel, up to a value of US$23,760,473. The Judge found that there was a real risk that Milaha would dissipate its assets given its express intention to sell the Vessel to other buyers as stated in the 12 August 2021 Letter. The Judge, however, found that Pengrui’s allegations of dishonesty on Milaha’s part in concealing material facts relating to the Vessel should be disregarded. Dissatisfied with the decision, Milaha appealed.The decision of the Court 4 The sole question before the court was whether the Judge was correct in finding that there was a real risk of dissipation of assets on Milaha’s part. This, in turn, required a real risk, objectively assessed, that a judgment may not be satisfied because of a risk of unjustified dealings with assets by the defendant. In this connection, dealing with assets in and of itself would be insufficient to show a real risk of dissipation; the dealing with the assets must be unjustified. Further, the foreign origin or foreign connection of a company/person is a relevant factor, but cannot conclusively lead to a finding of a real risk of dissipation of assets. Ultimately, the inquiry turns on whether there are circumstances suggesting that the defendant not only can but likely will frustrate the judgment, thereby defeating in whole or in part any judgment or order which the claimant may thereafter obtain against the defendant: at [22]–[24], [29]–[30], [32]. 5 The court found that Milaha’s corporate structure did not, in itself, support the finding of a real risk of dissipation of assets. The mere fact that a defendant holds its assets through offshore structures or by way of special purpose vehicles is not in itself evidence of a risk of dissipation. Milaha’s corporate structure can be explained by the purpose of its incorporation, which was to ringfence risks and liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels. This corporate structure must have been known to Pengrui when the MOA was concluded; Pengrui must therefore be taken to have accepted the associated risks. That monies from any subsequent sale of the Vessel may be used to pay Milaha’s other creditors or Qatari Navigation does not mean that there was impropriety; such payments could be for legitimate commercial purposes: at [25]–[28].6 The court also found that there was no unjustified dealing with assets by Milaha. In the 12 August 2021 Letter, Milaha was merely stating the consequence of Pengrui’s alleged breach of contract. Further, as recently as the date of the hearing of the appeal, the Vessel had not been sold and Milaha had not entered into any contract for the sale of the Vessel. Even if the Vessel was eventually sold, there could be various legitimate commercial reasons for the sale. In this connection, the court observed that the sale of the Vessel to another commercial party would simply be a continuation of what Milaha had set out to do in the first place, and was in fact a contractual right that Milaha was entitled to exercise under the buyer’s default clause. Ultimately, the court found that Pengrui did not discharge its burden of showing “solid evidence” of a real risk of dissipation: at [33]–[34].7 The court agreed with the Judge that Pengrui’s allegations of dishonesty on Milaha’s part should be disregarded. There was no real and material bearing between the alleged dishonesty and the risk of dissipation. In any case, such allegations were hotly contested and did not assist Pengrui in advancing its arguments: at [36]–[37].8 In deciding whether to grant a Mareva injunction, the court should balance the effects of the Mareva injunction on the defendant against the potential prejudice or loss that would be caused to the applicant. To grant Pengrui the Mareva injunction against Milaha would be to prevent Milaha from conducting its business in its best interests: at [38].9 The purpose of a Mareva injunction is not to provide security to a litigant or to guard against potential insolvency of the counterparty. There was therefore no basis on which to accept Pengrui’s suggestion that Milaha should set aside a sum of money as security or pay that sum into escrow or into court: at [29], [39].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
