
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE17 February 2023Case summaryIIa Technologies Pte Ltd v Element Six Technologies Ltd [2023] SGCA 5 Civil Appeal No. 41 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA finds that a patent for manufacturing synthetic diamonds is not sufficiently clear and complete, and allows the appeal against the lower court’s decision upholding the validity of the patent.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Regardless of the nature of the invention, the patent specification must enable the invention to be performed by the person skilled in the art (“PSA”, further defined at [11] below) over the full breadth of the monopoly claimed for the purposes of the sufficiency requirement in ss 25(4) and 80(1)(c) of the Patents Act (Cap 221, 2005 Rev Ed) (“Patents Act (2005 Rev Ed)”). Where a claim is to a class of products, it will be enabled only if the PSA can work the invention in respect of all members of the class. The specification can show that this is empirically demonstrated or disclose a principle which can reasonably be expected to apply across the class: at [108] and [109].•  There are distinct ways in which a patent may be insufficient. For one, a patent is insufficient where the patent specification is not clear and complete enough to enable the PSA to perform the invention across the whole breadth of the claim(s) without an undue burden (“classical insufficiency”). Classical insufficiency is concerned with whether the patent specification sufficiently teaches the PSA the steps to obtain the product or work the process that is the subject of the claim. Separately, a patent is insufficient if a PSA does not know how to determine whether a particular product or process, upon following the teachings in the patent specification, is within the scope of the claimed invention and so infringes the patent despite employing his common general knowledge and the normal claim construction process (“uncertainty”): at [113], [114], [119] and [124].1 In HC/S 26/2016, the respondent (“Element Six”) claimed that the appellant (“IIa”) had infringed Singapore Patent No 115872 (“SG 872”). To prove infringement, Element Six relied on three samples of diamonds that IIa allegedly produced using the method of growth set out in Claims 62 to 71 of SG 872. In its defence, IIa denied infringing the patent and, in any case, disputed its validity. It also sought the revocation of SG 872 by way of a counterclaim. 2 The trial judge (the “Judge”) found that SG 872 was valid and declined to revoke it. She further found that IIa had infringed certain claims in SG 872, including Claims 1ii), 1iii) and 62. IIa appealed against these aspects of the Judge’s decision. Facts3 The parties are competitors in the production of synthetic diamonds grown using chemical vapour deposition (“CVD”). The CVD process involves placing a substrate in a reactor containing a mixture of gases including methane (CH4) and hydrogen (H2). Upon exposure to high energy, the gaseous molecules break up into plasma containing carbon (or “C”) atoms. The C atoms are then deposited on the substrate, growing the synthetic diamond layer by layer.4 SG 872 asserts the invention of a new single crystal CVD diamond material which possesses one or more properties stated in the patent. One such property, which is relevant to key claims in SG 872, is low “optical birefringence” (henceforth referred to as “birefringence”). When light passes through a diamond, it may split into different components that travel at different velocities. This difference in velocity arises because of the non-symmetrical arrangement of atoms within the diamond’s structure. Birefringence is a physical property related to the different velocities at which components of light travel through a certain object. Retardation (which may be denoted by “δ”) is the gap between the faster and slower components of light when they emerge from the material. 5  SG 872 contains product and process claims. A product claim asserts exclusive rights over a new thing, such as new machines. A single crystal CVD diamond falling within any of the product claims in SG 872 is referred to as an “SG 872 Diamond”. A single crystal diamond is one whose crystal lattice is continuous and unbroken. On the other hand, a process claim covers a new activity such as a process or method of manufacturing.6 The pivotal product claim, which all subsequent claims refer back to, is Claim 1. Single crystal CVD diamond material falling within Claim 1 has few defects and exhibits at least one of the physical properties defined in the eight limbs of Claim 1. Two of these limbs, limbs ii) and iii), assert a monopoly over single crystal CVD diamond material with low birefringence. Low birefringence is quantified in limb ii) as a sample (a) remaining in the first order (δ does not exceed ) (the “SG 872 First Order”); and (b) with the modulus of the sine of δ (that is, |sin δ|) not exceeding 0.9. Low birefringence is quantified in limb iii) as a sample (a) for which δ remains in the SG 872 First Order; and (b) with the maximum value of the average birefringence across the thickness of the sample not exceeding 1.5 x 10-4.7 Claim 62 is the main process claim to which all other process claims refer. It specifies a method of producing single crystal CVD diamond material that meets the requirements of “one or more” of the preceding product claims in the patent. Element Six claims that the direction in Claim 62 to add 300 parts per billion (“ppb”) to 5 parts per million (“ppm”) nitrogen to the synthesis atmosphere in the CVD process (the “Claim 62 Nitrogen Range”), is novel because it runs contrary to previous thinking that adding nitrogen to the synthesis atmosphere in the CVD reactor will have a deleterious effect on the quality of the diamond produced.8 IIa’s case on appeal spans many areas of patent law. The court focused on two parts of IIa’s case concerning the non-fulfilment of the sufficiency requirement. 9 First, IIa submitted that the process claims fail to teach the growth process clearly and completely enough for it to be performed by a PSA. IIa faulted Claim 62 for not disclosing “what ranges of temperature, gas flow rate or methane concentration” would yield an SG 872 Diamond. Variables in the patented CVD growth process, other than the appropriate nitrogen concentration under the Claim 62 Nitrogen Range, shall be termed the “Other Growth Conditions”. 10 Second, IIa submitted that Claim 1 was uncertain. It argued that a PSA would not know whether the δ value of a particular single crystal CVD diamond remained within the SG 872 First Order and hence within the scope of the asserted monopoly.Decision on appealFoundational principles11 When undertaking the sufficiency inquiry and construing patent claims, the court dons the mantle of the PSA. Among other characteristics, the PSA possesses common general knowledge in the art. In respect of SG 872, the art relates to the growth of CVD diamonds and methods of measuring the physical properties of CVD diamonds grown. The PSA is a reasonably intelligent but unimaginative workman or technician. In this case, the PSA is a notional team of persons working in the field of growing CVD diamonds, with expertise in diamonds and the sciences: at [63], [67], [68], [70], [71] and [75].12 The PSA draws on common general knowledge to understand a patent and attempt to carry it into effect. Common general knowledge is information which, at the relevant date, is known to duly qualified persons engaged in that art: at [73].Patent construction: each product claim in SG 872 covers a class of products13 Before turning to the issue of sufficiency, it is pertinent to consider whether the product claims cover a single product or a class of products. This affects what, in law, has to be enabled by the specification of SG 872.  If the claim is to a single product, then it is sufficient if it enables the making of that one product. If, on the other hand, the claim is to a class of products, that class of products is sufficiently enabled only if the PSA can work the invention in respect of all members of the class. The patent “specification” comprises the description of the invention, drawings, examples illustrating how to carry out the invention and the claims. The claims delimit the monopoly asserted: at [52], [75], [76] and [80].14 Properly construed, each product claim asserts a monopoly over a class of single crystal CVD diamond materials: at [83].15 Claim 1 can be infringed by various types of single crystal CVD diamond materials, each with a different combination of the physical properties defined in the limbs of Claim 1. This is clear from the patent specification. Further, the language of a claim must be construed through the eyes of a PSA and one of Element Six’s expert witnesses indicated that the measurements in each limb of Claim 1 are not different ways of measuring the same property: at [84] and [85].16 Subsequent product claims likewise cover a range of diamonds because all of them incorporate Claim 1, albeit in different ways. Once a subsequent product claim incorporates Claim 1, it asserts a monopoly over a range of products. This is because any diamond within the class of products in Claim 1, which also fulfils the additional parameter expressed in the subsequent claim, falls within that subsequent claim: at [87] to [89].Law of insufficiency17 The sufficiency requirement is found in ss 25(4) and 80(1)(c) of the Patents Act (2005 Rev Ed). Section 25(4) requires the patent specification to “disclose the invention in a manner which is clear and complete”, failing which the patent may be revoked under s 80(1)(c). Absolute clarity and completeness are not required, so long as the specification is sufficiently clear for the invention to be performed by a PSA: at [95], [96] and [100].18 The assessment of sufficiency proceeds in two steps. The first involves identifying the invention and deciding what it claims to enable the PSA to do. The second step asks whether the specification enables him to do it. Where the invention is a process, enablement requires that process to be carried out by the PSA; where the invention is a product, enablement requires the PSA to be able to make that product: at [105] and [107].19 The patent specification must enable the invention to be performed by the PSA over the full breadth of the monopoly claimed. As noted at [13] above, where a claim is to a class of products, this is enabled only if the PSA can work the invention in respect of all members of the class. The specification can show that this is empirically demonstrated or disclose a principle which can reasonably be expected to apply across the class: at [108] and [109].20 There are distinct ways in which a patent may be insufficient within the meaning of s 80(1)(c) of the Patents Act (2005 Rev Ed): at [113].21 The patent may be insufficient where the patent specification is not clear and complete enough to enable the PSA to perform the invention across the whole breadth of the claim(s) without an undue burden (otherwise termed classical insufficiency). The PSA is saddled with an undue burden if he is unable to work the invention without prolonged research, enquiry and experiment. However, the patent need not set out every detail necessary and can leave the PSA to employ his skill and common general knowledge to work out what needs to be done. He may need to carry out the ordinary methods of trial and error, which involve no inventive step. In all of this, the examples in the patent specification are relevant to determining whether sufficiency is met: at [110], [114] and [134] to [136].22 A patent may also be insufficient if it is “uncertain”, that is, where a PSA does not know how to determine whether a particular product or process is within the scope of the claimed invention even after employing his common general knowledge and the normal claim construction process. Uncertainty is a distinct objection from classical insufficiency. The latter is concerned with whether the patent specification sufficiently teaches the PSA the steps to obtain the product or work the process that is the subject of the claim, while the former is concerned with whether the PSA, after following the teachings in the patent specification, can tell whether the invention falls within the scope the claim: at [119] and [124].All claims in SG 872 are invalid due to classical insufficiencyClaim 6223 Claim 62 imposes an undue burden on the PSA for four reasons: at [137].24 First, the Other Growth Conditions affect the quality of the CVD diamond produced. This is evidenced by both parties’ experts and is, in fact, borne out by Element Six’s submissions: at [140] to [143].25 Second, the specification of SG 872 merely provides a starting point for an onerous research programme. This does not satisfy the sufficiency requirement. None of the process claims provides directions on the precise values the PSA should use for the Other Growth Conditions, so as to produce diamonds with particular characteristics satisfying one or more of the product claims. This is so even after the process claims are read in the context of the rest of the patent specification, including the examples: at [145], [158] and [159].26 The examples only identify one main set of specific values for the Other Growth Conditions in Example 1. The same values are used in the other 14 examples, subject to modifications to the gas pressure in Examples 9 and 14 and the concentration of methane in Example 14. But the examples only teach the production of five variants of an SG 872 Diamond, which are differentiated by the growth conditions used to produce them. This did not enable the PSA to know what values of the Other Growth Conditions to use to produce diamonds falling within all of the 68 product claims in SG 872: at [147] to [150], [152] and [154].27 Crucially, the determination of the specific values of the Other Growth Conditions to use in order to produce a diamond of a particular quality is a complex process. Several of the Other Growth Conditions affect the appropriate concentration of nitrogen to be used. The PSA has to uncover the relationships between the variables in the growth process depending on the physical properties sought in the diamond grown: at [155].28 To compound matters, the entire growth process and the resultant diamond material are sensitive to changes in any of the Other Growth Conditions: at [156].29 As a result, the PSA is unduly burdened with an onerous research programme because there are many values for each variable to experiment with, all while balancing the (undefined) relationships between the Other Growth Conditions and appropriate nitrogen concentration. Without any adequate teaching of a principle of general application or unifying characteristic that enables the PSA to (a) understand the relationship between the Other Growth Conditions and nitrogen concentration; and (b) determine how to calibrate the Other Growth Conditions to grow a diamond of a specific quality, the PSA has to resort to a prolonged trial and error experiment: at [157] and [181].30 Third, even without experimental data, it is clear that the patent tells the PSA nothing about how to obtain the appropriate combination of the Other Growth Conditions and nitrogen concentration to grow an SG 872 Diamond with particular characteristics. Any success the PSA may have in performing Claim 62 will be due to his own luck and efforts. It is unfair to allow the patentee to take credit for that success: at [168]. 31 Fourth, it was not proved that the PSA imputed with common general knowledge would know how to calibrate all the Other Growth Conditions so as to produce an SG 872 Diamond of a specific quality. There was simply no evidence to support this: at [169], [170] and [172] to [179]. The other process claims32 Claims 63 to 71, process claims which refer back to and narrow the process taught in Claim 62, are likewise classically insufficient. These subsequent process claims require an understanding of how to calibrate the Other Growth Conditions in order to grow a diamond of a specific quality, but, like Claim 62, are utterly devoid of such guidance: at [182].The product claims33 Working a product claim entails making the product. The claim also has to enable the invention to be performed over its whole breadth. Since each product claim asserts a monopoly over a class of products, the specification of SG 872 must sufficiently enable the PSA to produce diamonds across the entire breadth of each product claim in SG 872: at [184].34 Given that the process claims are classically insufficient, the PSA is faced with an undue burden to grow diamonds across the entire range of products claimed in each product claim. But the sufficiency or validity of a product claim is not necessarily tied to that of a related process claim as a matter of law. This happens to be the case on the facts because SG 872 does not teach an alternative method of producing an SG 872 Diamond besides the one found in Claims 62 to 71, and neither is it Element Six’s case that there is a method within the PSA’s common general knowledge to grow SG 872 Diamonds: at [185].Revocation35 As all claims in SG 872 are invalid for classical insufficiency, the appeal is allowed and the entire patent is revoked under s 80(1)(c) of the Patents Act (2005 Rev Ed): at [187] and [241].All claims in SG 872 are invalid due to uncertaintyClaim 136 The patent specification directs the PSA to use an optical microscope-based imaging system known as the Metripol or a “similar instrument with similar resolution” to determine whether the δ value of a particular single crystal CVD diamond remains within the SG 872 First Order. But the parties agree that the Metripol on its own does not give the PSA data to determine this (the “Metripol Uncertainty Problem”). Apart from the Metripol, there is no other instrument known to the PSA to be similar to the Metripol at the relevant time: at [188] to [190].37 Element Six raises four solutions to the Metripol Uncertainty Problem. However, in respect of each solution, there is insufficient proof that it is workable and known to the PSA. Therefore, the PSA will not know which test to apply to determine that δ remains within the SG 872 First Order for a particular single crystal CVD diamond: at [192] and [194].38 Although this uncertainty only affects one out of two elements in limbs ii) and iii) of Claim 1 respectively, the result is that the PSA will not be able to determine whether a particular single crystal CVD diamond material satisfies either limb ii) or limb iii). Since Claim 1 covers a range of single crystal CVD diamond materials, each with a different combination of the physical properties defined in the various limbs of Claim 1, including limb ii) and limb iii), the PSA will not be able to make a portion of the range of single crystal CVD diamond materials that Claim 1 seeks to monopolise. Claim 1 is therefore invalid for insufficiency: at [228] and [229].Other claims in SG 87239 Each subsequent product claim covers any diamond within the class of products in Claim 1, which also fulfils the additional parameter embodied in the subsequent claim. This will include diamonds which possess the characteristics listed in limbs ii) and iii) of Claim 1. However, the making of these diamond materials is not enabled because the PSA cannot tell when limbs ii) and iii) of Claim 1 are satisfied. Hence, each subsequent product claim is not enabled across its full scope. Claim 62 monopolises a process which produces a range of single crystal CVD diamond materials, including those with either or both characteristics in limbs ii) and iii) of Claim 1. Part of this monopoly is not enabled given that the PSA cannot tell when limbs ii) and iii) of Claim 1 are satisfied. The same issue arises in respect of each of the other process claims, Claims 63 to 71: at [236] and [237].Revocation40 As each claim in SG 872 is invalid for uncertainty, this is another ground for allowing the appeal and revoking the entire patent under s 80(1)(c) of the Patents Act (2005 Rev Ed): at [239] and [241].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
