
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE17 February 2023Case summaryNicholas Tan Siew Chye v Public Prosecutor [2023] SGHC 35Magistrate’s Appeal No. 9121 of 2022/01--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Vincent Hoong):Outcome: The General Division of the High Court allowed Mr Tan’s appeal against sentence and set out the sentencing framework for s 377BB(4) Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“PC”) offences punishable under s 377BB(7) PC.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A sentencing framework for voyeurism offences under s 377BB(4) PC punishable under s 377BB(7) PC was set out.•  The appeal was allowed. The Court reduced the sentence from seven weeks’ imprisonment to four weeks’ imprisonment. 1 This was an appeal by Mr Nicholas Tan Siew Chye (the “appellant”) against the sentences imposed for two offences under s 377BB(4) PC punishable under s 377BB(7) PC for filming upskirt videos. Background2 The appellant was a 24-year-old student in his final year of undergraduate studies at the Nanyang Technological University (“NTU”) when he committed two counts of the offence under s 377BB(4) PC punishable under s 377BB(7) PC. He pleaded guilty to the two charges. 3 The District Judge sentenced him to seven weeks’ imprisonment, consisting of three weeks’ and four weeks’ imprisonment respectively, with the sentences to run consecutively. 4 Being dissatisfied with the sentence imposed by the DJ, the appellant filed the present appeal. On appeal, he sought a non-custodial sentence on the basis that rehabilitation rather than deterrence should be the primary sentencing consideration. The appellant asserted that he had an extremely strong propensity for reform as evinced by the active steps he took post-offence to seek psychiatric intervention.The appellate court’s grounds of decision5 The Court held that the offences committed by the appellant were in the low harm-low culpability category: at [98]. 6 In arriving at the assessment that the offences fell within the low harm category, the Court reasoned that although the appellant invaded the victims’ privacy by observing and recording videos of them, the degree of the invasion of privacy is limited – the appellant observed only the victims’ covered genitals for a brief period of time, and the video recordings were deleted shortly after the offences were committed. However, the harm caused by the second offence is higher for two reasons. First, the appellant touched the second victim’s thigh but did not make any physical contact with the first victim. Further, the second victim was considerably more traumatised, as can be gathered from the fact that she called her father and cried shortly after she caught the appellant in the act. The second victim’s relative youth had exacerbated the level of distress she experienced from the invasion of privacy and the violation of her bodily integrity: at [96].7 The Court assessed that the appellant’s culpability for both offences fell within the low category. Though the appellant followed both victims, an act which suggests a degree of determination, the appellant only did so for a brief duration leading up to the commission of the offences: at [97].8 As both offences involve low harm and low culpability, the applicable indicative sentencing range is fine or up to four months’ imprisonment. Considering the offence-specific factors, a starting point of three weeks’ and four weeks’ imprisonment for the first and second offences respectively would be appropriate. The circumstances of both offences are such that the custodial threshold is crossed, and nothing suggests that the interests of deterrence would be adequately met by the imposition of a fine: at [98].9 Adjusting the starting points with reference to offender-specific factors such as taking into account the trespass charge which was taken into consideration, and balancing that against the appellant’s guilty plea, cooperation with authorities as well as his propensity for reform, the Court calibrated the starting point of three weeks’ imprisonment to one week’s imprisonment for the first offence: at [99].10 The sentencing discount for the second offence, however, will be much less given that the appellant re-offended on bail slightly more than four months after he was arrested for his first offence. A slight downward calibration from four to three weeks’ imprisonment would be justified: at [100]. The sentences should run consecutively for an aggregate term of four weeks’ imprisonment: at [101].11 Consequently, the appeal was allowed and the Court set aside the sentences that were imposed by the DJ and substituted in their place a sentence of one week and three weeks’ imprisonment respectively, for an aggregate imprisonment of four weeks: at [103].Sentencing framework12 The Court preferred the Logachev framework in so far as s 377BB(4) PC offences punishable under s 377BB(7) PC are concerned: at [57].13 At the first step, the court has to consider the offence-specific factors and identify the level of harm caused by the offence as well as the level of the offender’s culpability: at [64]. The offence-specific factors going toward harm are: (a) the invasion of the victim’s privacy, in cases where there was unwanted observation of the victim’s private region, or the retention or dissemination of a record of the victim’s image; (b) violation of the victim’s bodily integrity, in cases where the offender made physical contact with the victim in the course of committing the s 377BB(4) PC offence; and (c) humiliation, alarm or distress, in cases where the victim was made aware of the offending conduct: at [65] to [75]. The offence-specific factors going toward culpability are: (a) whether the offender actually knew, or merely had reason to believe, that the victim had not consented to be observed; (b) degree of premeditation and planning; (c) stalking or following victim; (d) type and sophistication of equipment used and whether it was concealed; (e) breach of relationship of trust with the victim; (f) steps taken to evade detection; (g) motivation for the offence; and (h) persistence of the offending conduct that is the subject of the charge: at [76] to [81].14 The second and third steps of the sentencing framework requires the court to identify the applicable indicative sentencing range before proceeding to identify the appropriate starting point within that range: at [82] to [86].15 At the fourth step of the sentencing framework, the court must adjust the starting point sentence having regard to offender-specific aggravating and mitigating factors: at [87].16 The fifth step of the sentencing framework is engaged where the offender has been convicted of multiple charges, in which case the court has to make further adjustments to the sentence for the individual charges in keeping with the totality principle. This ensures that the aggregate sentence is sufficient and proportionate to the offender’s overall criminality through a two-limbed analysis: the first limb examines whether the aggregate sentence is substantially above the normal level of sentences for the most serious of the individual offences committed, whereas the second limb considers whether the effect of the sentence on the offender is crushing and not in keeping with his past record and his future prospects: at [88] to [90].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
