
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 November 2023Case summaryFounder Group (Hong Kong) Ltd (in liquidation) v Singapore JHC Co Pte Ltd [2023] SGCA 40-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The CA allowed the appeal in CA/CA 41/2022 and ordered that Singapore JHC Co Pte Ltd be wound up on the basis that it is unable to pay its debts. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The requirements set out in AnAn Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd v VTB Bank (Public Joint Stock Co) [2020] 1 SLR 1158 (“AnAn”) are relevant to the question of standing to present a winding-up application. Where a debt is subject to a dispute that falls within the scope of an applicable arbitration clause (those being the first and second AnAn requirements), it cannot be assumed at that point that the defendant company is in fact a debtor, that being the precise question that the parties have agreed to refer to arbitration. Rather, it is only when the dispute has been resolved by arbitration in the claimant’s favour, that the claimant can be considered to be a creditor of the defendant. It is for that reason that the court will ordinarily dismiss the winding-up application in such circumstances, provided that there has been no abuse of process on the defendant’s part (that being the third AnAn requirement): at [30]–[37].•  The fact that a defendant may be found liable to pay a debt, if litigation or arbitration is decided in the claimant’s favour at some future date, does not make the claimant a contingent creditor. A disputed liability could in principle be considered a contingent liability where the liability itself is not disputed and the only dispute is over whether the contingency that crystallises the liability has occurred. Even then, however, there is a separate inquiry into the merits of the application and so a contingent creditor will not be able to establish grounds for winding up if it relies on a debt that is disputed by the defendant in good faith and on substantial grounds: at [38]–[50].Background 1 The appellant, Founder Group (Hong Kong) (in liquidation) (“FGHK”), is a company incorporated in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (“Hong Kong”) of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”).  The respondent, Singapore JHC Co Pte Ltd (“JHC”), is a company incorporated in Singapore.2 Prior to 2020, FGHK and JHC were part of the same group of companies and were owned and controlled by Peking University Founder Group Company Limited (“PUFG”), which is a company incorporated in the PRC. In 2021, ownership and control of JHC were transferred from PUFG to a consortium of investors.3 FGHK continued to be owned by PUFG, but it was ordered to be liquidated by the Hong Kong Court of First Instance on 19 July 2021. Liquidators of FGHK were appointed on 18 October 2021 (the “Liquidators”).4 According to the Liquidators, they discovered upon a review of FGHK’s books and records that a sum of approximately US$47.43m was due and payable by JHC to FGHK. This sum pertained to an alleged sale of copper cathodes by FGHK to JHC pursuant to three contracts (the “Contracts”). Each of the Contracts stated that any disputes which could not be resolved amicably would be submitted to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission (“CIETAC”) for arbitration in Beijing, and that the governing law of the Contracts was Chinese law.5 On 18 February 2022, the Liquidators issued a statutory demand to JHC for US$47.43m but this demand was not satisfied. On 27 May 2022, the Liquidators (acting on behalf of FGHK) filed HC/CWU 121/2022 (“CWU 121”), seeking an order that JHC be wound up on the basis that (a) it was unable to pay its debts within the meaning of s 125(1)(e) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 (2020 Rev Ed)  (“IRDA”); or (b) it was just and equitable to wind up the company pursuant to s 125(1)(i) of the IRDA. JHC resisted the winding-up application by disputing that the debt of US$47.43m was due and payable to FGHK, among other grounds. 6 On 29 September 2022, a judge of the General Division of the High Court (“the Judge”) dismissed the winding-up application. The Judge held that as JHC disputed a debt arising out of the Contracts, which each contained arbitration agreements, the applicable test was that set out in AnAn. Namely, the court had to be satisfied that (a) there was an arbitration agreement between the parties that appeared prima facie to be valid; (b) the dispute raised by the defendant appeared prima facie to fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement; and (c) the defendant was not abusing the court’s process by raising the dispute (collectively, the “AnAn requirements”).7 The Judge held that the AnAn requirements were satisfied on the facts. Consequently, FGHK had failed to establish that it had standing as a creditor, and the winding-up application therefore failed and was dismissed. For completeness, the Judge went on to consider the merits of FGHK’s winding-up application. The Judge accepted that JHC was, as a matter of fact, unable to pay its debts based on its audited financial statements.8 FGHK subsequently filed an appeal against the Judge’s decision. On appeal, FGHK contended that the Judge should have found that: (a) it had standing to present a winding-up application as a contingent creditor of JHC under s 124(1)(c) of the IRDA, and that the test in AnAn related to the merits of its winding-up application rather than its standing to present such an application; (b) JHC’s dispute over the US$47.43m debt was an abuse of process; and (c) it would be just and equitable for JHC to be wound up.Decision of the court 9 It is important to note that the requirement of standing to make a winding-up application and the grounds on which the application may be granted are distinct inquiries. Disputes over whether the indebtedness has been established can affect both parts of the inquiry, as they will affect whether a claimant has standing as a creditor but can also have a bearing on whether the company is or should be deemed to be insolvent. Nonetheless, the two inquiries are distinct and for conceptual clarity, they need to be addressed separately: at [24].10 FGHK’s contention that the AnAn requirements do not apply to the question of standing is mistaken. Where a debt is subject to a dispute that falls within the scope of an applicable arbitration clause (those being the first and second AnAn requirements), it cannot be assumed at that point that the company is in fact a debtor, that being the precise question that the parties have agreed to refer to arbitration. Rather, it is only when the dispute has been resolved by arbitration in the claimant’s favour, that the claimant can be considered to be a creditor of the defendant. It is for that reason that the court will ordinarily dismiss the winding-up application in such circumstances, provided that there has been no abuse of process on the defendant’s part (that being the third AnAn requirement): at [30]–[37].11 The fact that JHC could be found liable to pay the US$47.43m debt, if the arbitration were decided in FGHK’s favour at some future date, did not make FGHK a contingent creditor. JHC’s position was that the payment obligation was never meant to be enforced and that the Contracts were null and void. JHC therefore disputed the very existence of a payment obligation, and it could not be said that JHC was subject to a present obligation that was contingent upon the happening of a stipulated event. A disputed liability could in principle be considered a contingent liability where the liability itself is not disputed and the only dispute is over whether the contingency that crystallises the liability has occurred. Even then, however, there is a separate inquiry into the merits of the application and so a contingent creditor will not be able to establish grounds for winding up if it relies on a debt that is disputed by the defendant in good faith and on substantial grounds: at [38]–[50].12 JHC was not entitled to invoke the arbitration agreements in the Contracts and the AnAn requirements did not apply to the dispute it raised. JHC’s position was that the Contracts were sham transactions and that there was no genuine intent on its part to enter into the Contracts, and this must logically include the arbitration agreements. The doctrine of separability does not guarantee the survival of the arbitration clause in all circumstances and does not permit a party to invoke an arbitration clause that is contained in a contract which it maintains is not valid or binding. Further, JHC’s position was manifestly inconsistent in that it claimed that the Contracts were null and void on the one hand, but then sought to rely on the arbitration agreements that were contained therein. It was plain that the real reason for JHC’s inconsistent position was its desire to delay enforcement of the debt arising under the Contracts. This was clearly an abuse of process: at [51]–[63].13 JHC had not raised a dispute over the debt in good faith and on substantial grounds. While JHC’s defence was that the Contracts were not meant to be enforced, JHC was unable to explain why it took this position, or why the Contracts were entered into at all. At the hearing before the court, counsel for JHC informed the court that the sole basis for JHC’s position was the fact that the debt of US$47.43m had sat on JHC’s books for several years with no steps being taken by FGHK to enforce it. This was a wholly unsatisfactory explanation, as there may be any number of reasons why a creditor withholds promptly enforcing a debt: at [64]–[68].14 FGHK therefore had standing as a creditor to bring a winding-up application. As there was no real dispute over JHC’s indebtedness, the court allowed the appeal and ordered that JHC be wound up: at [69].15 As for the appointment of JHC’s liquidators, FGHK had proposed the appointment of liquidators from Alvarez & Marsal (SE Asia) Pte Ltd (“A&M (SE Asia)”). However, as FGHK’s Liquidators were from the same global network of offices as A&M (SE Asia), the court declined to appoint the liquidators from A&M (SE Asia), and instead appointed liquidators from Grant Thornton Singapore Pte Ltd: at [70].16 It is appropriate to order JHC’s directors to bear costs jointly and severally with JHC. There was a clear lack of good faith in JHC’s defence. It can also be reasonably inferred that JHC’s directors were closely connected to the proceedings, and that they caused the incurring of costs. Further, it is relevant that JHC is unlikely to be able to satisfy any costs orders against it, given that it has been unable to meet its debts for several years: at [71]–[82].17 FGHK is to be paid costs in the following sums: (a) S$25,000 for the costs of the proceedings below; (b) S$50,000 for costs of the appeal; and (c) S$11,999.05 for disbursements incurred in the appeal. These costs are to be borne jointly and severally by JHC and its directors: at [85].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
