
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 February 2023Case SummaryBCBC Singapore Pte Ltd and another v PT Bayan Resources TBK and another [2023] SGCA(I) 1Civil Appeal No. 10 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Judgment of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The Court of Appeal (the “Court”) dismissed the appeal and affirmed the decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (the “SICC”). The Court agreed with the SICC that, even if the first respondent had not acted in breach of contract, the appellants would not have been able to recoup the more-than US$90m in expenditure they had put into their joint venture. The appellants accordingly failed to establish that they were entitled to substantial damages and were instead awarded S$1,000 in nominal damages.Introduction1 This was an appeal against the decision of the SICC in BCBC Singapore Pte Ltd and another v PT Bayan Resources TBK and another [2022] SGHC(I) 2. Background and the decision below2 The first appellant (“BCBCS”), a company incorporated in Singapore, is an associate of the second appellant. The second appellant (“BCBC”), a company incorporated in Australia, is the exclusive licensee of a patented technology capable of upgrading low-value sub-bituminous coal to a higher-value coal suitable for commercial sale. The process is known as the “BCB Process”. Both appellants are indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of White Energy Company Limited (“WEC”), an energy and technology company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. The first respondent (“BR”) is a coal mining company listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. The subsidiaries of BR operate sub-bituminous coal mines in Tabang, Indonesia. The second respondent (“BI”) is BR’s associate incorporated in Singapore.3 In June 2006, BCBC and BI entered into a joint venture by the execution of a deed (the “JV Deed”). The purpose of the venture was to set up a plant in Tabang, Indonesia (the “Tabang Plant”) to use the BCB Process and upgrade sub-bituminous coal which was to be supplied by BR’s subsidiaries. The vehicle used for the joint venture was PT Kaltim Supacoal (“KSC”), an Indonesian company in which BCBCS initially held a 51% stake and BI held the other 49%. Ultimately, in 2008 and 2009, through the sale of KSC’s shares and a deed of novation, the named parties to the JV Deed and the shareholders of KSC were aligned as BCBCS and BR. 4 Meanwhile, the construction of the Tabang Plant commenced. However, issues arose which resulted in increased costs. Thus, to sustain KSC as well as the joint venture, BCBCS and BR entered into three sets of agreements between April 2007 and December 2010 to extend loans to KSC.a. The first two sets were shareholder loan agreements by which BCBCS and BR each agreed to make substantial loan facilities available to KSC. Following various addenda, the total sum which BCBCS agreed to make available to KSC under its shareholder loans (respectively, abbreviated as “1SLA (BCBCS)” and “2SLA (BCBCS)”) was US$60m. The total sum which BR made available to KSC under its shareholder loans (respectively, the “1SLA (BR)” and “2SLA (BR)”) was US$50m.b. The third agreement, called the “priority loan funding agreement” (“PLFA”), was executed by BCBCS, BR and KSC. By this, BCBCS undertook to make available another loan facility which would ultimately be for US$40m (the “Priority Facility”). BR, rather than lending money directly to KSC, undertook to supply sub-bituminous coal to KSC (through its subsidiaries) at a rate below the market price. KSC was then obliged to pay BR the balance later. In essence, BR undertook to supply coal to KSC under a partial deferred payment scheme (the “Coal Advance”).5 Under the 1SLA (BR) and 2SLA (BR) respectively, BR advanced US$25m and around US$14.6m to KSC. Pursuant to the Coal Advance, BR effectively provided US$4.19m in funding to KSC through the deferred payments.6 Each of these loan agreements had distinct repayment schedules. Based on the terms of the three sets of agreements, the chronological order in which KSC was to settle its debts with BCBCS and BR was as follows:a. By 31 December 2011, KSC was to repay BCBCS the sums it borrowed under the 2SLA (BCBCS);b. By 30 June 2012, KSC was to repay BCBCS the sums it borrowed under the PLFA’s Priority Facility and pay BR the balance it owed for the Coal Advance;c. By 31 December 2012, KSC was to repay BR the sums it borrowed under the 2SLA (BR); andd. On 30 June 2013, KSC was to start making annual repayments under both the 1SLA (BCBCS) and 1SLA (BR) and these annual repayments needed to be completed by 30 June 2017.7 The appellants suggested, however, that this schedule had been varied. On 17 December 2010, BCBCS, BR and KSC agreed by a letter called the “Subordination Letter” to vary the order in which KSC was to settle these debts. In essence, this letter provided that KSC was to repay the debts it owed under the PLFA “first, ahead of all other [loan agreements]”. Thereafter, KSC was then to repay the 1SLA (BCBCS) and 1SLA (BR) (both ranking equally), and, finally, the 2SLA (BCBCS) and 2SLA (BR) (both also ranking equally). The effect of this letter was an important aspect of the appellants’ case on appeal.8 These loans, however, did not save the joint venture. Following various delays and costs overruns, the relationship between BCBCS and BR eventually soured, and, on 21 February 2012, BR purported to terminate the JV Deed. On 2 March 2012, BCBCS responded, stating that BR did not have grounds to terminate, and that it would thus treat and accept BR’s 2 February 2012 communication as a repudiation of the JV Deed. At about this time, the appellants commenced proceedings against the respondents in the High Court and the respondents counterclaimed. The matter was later transferred to the SICC in 2015 which determined the issues relating to the parties’ liability in two earlier tranches.9 In those two tranches, it was essentially found that BR had by various means breached its obligation to supply sub-bituminous coal to KSC (the “coal supply obligations”), this being a condition of the JV Deed. The respondents’ counterclaim was also dismissed, and it was held that BCBCS had not breached the JV Deed. BR therefore had no lawful basis upon which to terminate the JV Deed on 21 February 2012 and its purported termination was thus wrongful. BCBCS validly accepted BR’s wrongful repudiation on 2 March 2012 and the joint venture thus ended on this date.10 On the footing that BR had breached its coal supply obligations under the JV Deed, the parties’ dispute went before the SICC for a third tranche to assess the losses suffered by the appellants. Before the SICC, the appellants sought to recover damages under two heads but only one remained in issue on appeal before the Court. That is, a claim for wasted expenditure of around US$91m comprising the various loans which had been extended to KSC under the 1SLA (BCBCS), 2SLA (BCBCS) and PLFA. The essence of the appellants’ claim was that they would have recouped these loans had BR not breached and wrongfully repudiated the JV Deed.11 The SICC made various findings and concluded that even if BR had not acted in breach of its coal supply obligations, the appellants would not have been able to recoup their wasted expenditure. Two findings were dispositive.a. First, KSC would not have been able to generate a positive cash flow until 2028, and, therefore, would not have been able to begin repaying any of the loans due, whether to BCBCS or BR, until such time. This was not disputed by the appellants’ quantum expert, Mr James Nicholson (“Mr Nicholson”), who gave evidence that KSC would only have been able to start repaying the principal sum due under the PLFA (which was prioritised by the Subordination Letter) starting from 2037. Mr Nicholson’s also gave evidence that BCBCS would only have been able to recoup its wasted expenditure in 2043.b. Second, as KSC would not have been able to repay the loans it took from either BCBCS or BR, the SICC accepted the respondents’ claim that BR would have brought the joint venture to an end by winding up KSC sometime before 2028. This was a step which BR would have been legally entitled to take as an unpaid creditor. The winding up of KSC would, consequently, have prevented the appellants from recouping their around-US$91m in expenditure through the anticipated operations of KSC.12 The SICC’s reached the same conclusion on an alternative basis but consideration of this basis on appeal was not required if the appellants failed to challenge the SICC’s dispositive findings.The appellants’ arguments against the SICC’s dispositive findings13 The appellants raised several arguments.14 First, they submitted that the SICC erred in finding that BR would have taken steps to wind up KSC as an unpaid creditor. On the appellants’ case, this assertion was: (a) not pleaded, (b) only raised at the doorstep of the third tranche of the trial thus indicating that it was an afterthought, and (c) in any case, not substantiated by the facts (“Argument 1”).15 Second, and in any case, the SICC erred in finding that BR would have been able to wind up KSC. There were, according to the appellants, both factual and legal barriers which would have prevented BR from unilaterally winding up KSC as an unpaid creditor. a. As regards factual barriers, the appellants relied on: (i) evidence raised at trial that they would have gift-funded KSC to the tune of US$4.19m in order to help it settle its debt to BR for the Coal Advance, as well as (ii) the finding of the SICC that BCBCS would have provided an additional US$20m to KSC to meet its cash needs until June 2012. On these bases, the appellants argued that they, backed by their parent company, WEC, would have gifted whatever funds needed by KSC to repay BR (“Argument 2”).b. In respect of legal barriers, the appellants had two points:i. The Subordination Letter had rendered the full payment of the PLFA a condition precedent to the accrual of KSC’s payment obligations under the 1SLA (BR) and 2SLA (BR). Further, a term of the PLFA provided that KSC’s obligation to settle the debts it owed under the PLFA could only be triggered by a joint written demand issued by both BCBCS and BR, a demand which BCBCS would not have agreed to issue. Thus, there were two related impediments in the way of BR enforcing KSC’s payment obligations under the 1SLA (BR) and 2SLA (BR). One, KSC’s payment obligations thereunder would not arise until the PLFA was fully repaid and, two, KSC’s payment obligations under the PLFA could only be triggered with BCBCS’s consent, which BCBCS would not have given (“Argument 3”).ii. Next, an attempt by BR to wind up KSC unilaterally as an unpaid creditor would not have been legally effective because this would have caused KSC’s business to cease. This would have been contrary to cl 7.1(x) of the JV Deed which provided that the consent of both BCBCS and BR was required to cease KSC’s business (“Argument 4”).16 Third, even if BR would have taken steps to wind up KSC as an unpaid creditor and would not have been prevented by any of the aforementioned barriers from doing so effectively, taking such steps would nevertheless have entailed BR acting in breach of: (a) its duty under the JV Deed to use all reasonable endeavours to promote KSC’s business (cl 17.1 of the JV Deed), and (b) its duty to perform the JV Deed in a spirit of mutual co-operation, good faith, trust and confidence (cl 17.3 of the JV Deed). In raising this argument, the appellants impliedly relied on the principle that a contracting party would not generally be entitled to take advantage of its own breach of contract as against its counterparty (“Argument 5”).The Court’s decisionArgument 117 In respect of Argument 1, the Court disagreed with the appellants that the respondents had failed to put in issue the question of whether BR would have wound up KSC as an unpaid creditor. And, when considered on the merits, the balance of probabilities favoured the view that BR would at least have attempted to wind up KSC as an unpaid creditor: at [43].18 This conclusion was supported by three particular reasons:a. First, the parties’ relationship had deteriorated by February 2012 and it was artificial to suggest that BR would nonetheless have held out for the many years that would have been necessary for the appellants to have had some chance to recover the money that had been loaned to KSC: at [38].b. Second, there was evidence that the issue of KSC’s liquidation had been raised by BR during the subsistence of the joint venture. Although BR did not suggest that it would wind up KSC as an unpaid creditor, that was beside the point. Given the state of the parties’ relationship, it was more likely than not that BR would have used the means available to it to bring the joint venture to an end. Indeed, even if BR would also have suffered losses, it was not unreasonable for it to take the view that it was better off cutting its losses: at [39] and [40].c. Third, the appellants seemed themselves to realise that they probably could not effectively dispute that BR would have taken steps to wind up KSC. Before the SICC, the appellants only faintly objected to the way the respondents raised the defence that BR would have wound up KSC. They primarily sought to refute the defence based on Arguments 2, 3 and 5 above, and offered no serious opposition to the respondents’ claim that BR was ready, willing and going to at least try to end the joint venture: at [41] and [42].Argument 219 The Court rejected Argument 2 on the basis that, although the appellants could have done so at trial, they failed to adduce sufficient evidence to show that they (and WEC) would have gift-funded KSC the full sums needed to settle KSC’s debts to BR in order to protect KSC from falling into default of its payment obligations under the 1SLA (BR) and 2SLA (BR): at [44]–[48].Argument 320 The Court rejected Argument 3 on the basis that neither the text of the Subordination Letter nor the context in which it was prepared suggested with sufficient clarity that the parties objectively intended for KSC’s full repayment of the PLFA to operate as a condition precedent to KSC’s obligation to repay the shareholder loans made by both BCBCS and BR. Although rejecting this argument left the precise effect of the Subordination Letter somewhat obscure, it was clear that the appellants’ argument as to the letter’s effect was not correct: at [49]–[52].Argument 421 The Court held that cl 7.1(x) of the JV Deed did not answer the respondents’ claim that BR would have been able to wind up KSC as an unpaid creditor. This was because the text and contents of cl 7.1 showed that the provision concerned the decision-making of KSC internally, with BCBCS and BR acting either in their capacity as members of KSC or through the directors they each nominated to the board of KSC. It did not affect BR’s external right to wind up KSC as an unpaid creditor: at [53] and [54].Argument 522 Finally, the appellants’ reliance on cll 17.1 and 17.3 of the JV Deed was also rejected. The Court observed that whether a contractual party could be said to have breached its obligations to use all reasonable endeavours, to co-operate, to act in good faith, or not to act in breach of trust and confidence, were intensely fact-sensitive inquiries. However, despite deciding that they would rely on these clauses at the third tranche of trial, the appellants made little to no effort to explore the relevant factual issues before the SICC. As such, there was insufficient evidence for the appellants to establish breaches of cll 17.1 or 17.3 on BR’s part, and it was too late for them to rely on these clauses as they did on appeal: at [61]–[64].Conclusion23 As none of the appellants’ arguments against the SICC’s dispositive findings were accepted, the appeal was dismissed. Nevertheless, in recognition of the appellants’ success at the first and second tranches of trial in establishing BR’s liability for breaching the JV Deed, the Court awarded the appellants S$1,000 in nominal damages. As regards costs, the Court directed the parties to make submissions in respect of the costs of the appeal, but expressly made no order or observations in respect of trial costs: at [66] and [67].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
