
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE9 February 2023Case summaryCrescendas Bionics Pte Ltd v Jurong Primewide Pte Ltd and other appeals [2023] SGHC(A) 9Civil Appeals Nos 87, 88 and 128 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Woo Bih Li JAD):Outcome: Appellate Division of the High Court allows property developer’s and management contractor’s appeals in part, and increases damages awarded to property developer for construction delays1 Crescendas Bionics Pte Ltd (“Crescendas”), the property developer of Biopolis 3, appealed against the award of damages by a judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”), amongst other matters. Jurong Primewide Pte Ltd (“JP”), the management contractor engaged by Crescendas to build Biopolis 3, cross-appealed.Background to the appeal2 Crescendas engaged JP to complete Biopolis 3 by 22 January 2010. However, completion was delayed by 334 days (the “Combined Delay”), of which Crescendas was responsible for an aggregate of 173 days, and JP was responsible for 161 days. As such, Crescendas claimed three heads of loss against JP: (a) “loss of chance” to earn net rental revenue, (b) holding costs incurred by Crescendas and (c) site staff costs incurred by Crescendas. JP disputed the quantum and recoverability of the former two heads of loss but accepted its liability for $132,157.12 of site staff costs.3 The Judge held that both parties’ delays were effective causes of Crescendas’ loss, and that the Combined Delay caused Crescendas to lose five pre-commitment tenants, including PetNet Solutions Pte Ltd (“PetNet”) and Philip Morris Products SA (“Philip Morris”).4 As regards Crescendas’ claim for its “loss of chance” to earn net rental revenue, the Judge characterised this as a claim for “loss of net rental revenue”, which consisted of two distinct categories: (a) loss of net rental revenue during the period of the Combined Delay and (b) loss of net rental revenue after the completion of Biopolis 3 (“post-completion net rental revenue loss”). The Judge held that the former was not too remote but that the latter was too remote to be recoverable. In quantifying Crescendas’ loss of net rental revenue, the Judge adopted the “Single-Year Model” which only calculated Crescendas’ loss of net rental revenue in the year 2010, as opposed to the “Multi-Year Model” which computed Crescendas’ loss of net rental revenue over multiple years stretching from the period of the Combined Delay to the years after. On this premise, the Judge found that JP was liable for a sum of $1,789,398.82 in respect of Crescendas’ loss of net rental revenue.5 The Judge held that Crescendas could recover damages for holding costs incurred during the Combined Delay, but pro-rated it to exclude the holding costs incurred during the rent-free fitting-out period which Crescendas would have granted its tenants even if Biopolis 3 had been completed on time. He thus found JP liable for $775,310.63 for this head of loss.6 On appeal, amongst other matters, JP argued that the Judge’s decision on causation was wrong, while Crescendas argued that the Judge erred in his findings on remoteness and quantification regarding its claim for “loss of chance” to earn net rental revenue, as well as in his decision to deny recovery for holding costs incurred during the rent-free fitting-out period.The court’s decision on appeal7 Notwithstanding Crescendas’ use of the phrase “loss of chance”, the Judge had correctly recognised that Crescendas’ claim was in substance a claim for loss of net rental revenue and not a claim for loss of chance to earn net rental revenue (at [35]–[46]).8 The delay attributable to each party was each an independent and effective cause of Crescendas’ loss. Though the Combined Delay caused Crescendas to lose Philip Morris as a tenant, it did not cause the loss of PetNet as a tenant. It followed that JP was not liable to Crescendas for any loss of rent from PetNet (at [48]–[85]).9 On the issue of remoteness, Crescendas was allowed to argue on appeal that its post-completion net rental revenue loss constituted ordinary damage notwithstanding its contrary argument before the Judge. On the merits, Crescendas’ entire claim for loss of net rental revenue satisfied the test for remoteness of damages (at [86]–[109]).10 In relation to the quantification of the loss of net rental revenue, the Judge erred in rejecting the Multi-Year Model. The Multi-Year Model should be used. The expert evidence supported a finding that the Combined Delay had resulted in post-completion net rental revenue loss over multiple years and that such loss would result even if Crescendas had taken reasonable efforts to mitigate its loss. The key reason for this was that Biopolis 3 was a multi-tenanted development which would take several years to fill up. This, coupled with the fact that Crescendas’ income stream arose from multi-year leases with tenants in Biopolis 3, meant that the Combined Delay had impacted Crescendas’ net rental revenue stream over several years. Further, the Judge’s reasons for rejecting the Multi-Year Model were not justified (at [110]–[190]).11 The Judge had calculated the loss of net rental revenue based on the Multi-Year Model, as an alternative to the Single-Year Model. The parties agreed with the Judge’s calculations under the Multi-Year Model, subject to two adjustments. Consequential amendments also had to be made given that, contrary to the Judge’s holding, the Combined Delay did not cause the loss of PetNet as a tenant. On these premises, JP was liable for $4,185,802.60 in respect of Crescendas’ loss of net rental revenue, instead of $1,789,398.82 as held by the Judge (at [192]–[197]).12 Finally, contrary to the Judge’s finding, Crescendas was entitled to claim the holding costs it incurred during the rent-free fitting-out period. As such, JP was liable to Crescendas for $1,061,285.86 in holding costs, instead of $775,310.63 (at [198]–[212]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
