
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE8 February 2023Case summaryKiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another [2023] SGHC(I) 3SIC/S 4/2017--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Kannan Ramesh JAD):Outcome: On the remitted issue, the SICC determines that the annual tonnage of Related Products for calculating the notional licence fee is 53,550 tonnes for the purposes of valuing the shares in DyStar for the buy-out order.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  As the interplay between illustration (g) of s 116 of the Evidence Act 1893 (2020 Rev Ed) and the principle in Armory v Delamirie (1722) 1 Stra 505 (“Armory v Delamire”) has yet to be explored fully and the authorities do not speak with one voice on the application of the Armory v Delamire principle, the SICC preferred to rely on the well-established principles of drawing the appropriate inference when necessary instead: at [9].Background 1 In this long-running case, the SICC had previously held that Senda International Capital Ltd (“Senda”) had engaged in instances of oppressive conduct against Kiri Industries Ltd (“Kiri”) in relation to DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”), which was their joint venture vehicle. Senda was thus ordered to purchase Kiri’s 37.57% shareholding in DyStar.2 The most recent tranche of proceedings concerned the valuation of DyStar and Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar, which turned primarily on expert evidence. Having heard the parties, the SICC delivered its judgment in Kiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another [2021] 3 SLR 215 (“the Valuation Judgment”). One of the issues addressed in the Valuation Judgment was the quantum of the notional licence fee. That issue related to Zhejiang Longsheng Group Co, Ltd’s (“Longsheng”) unauthorised use of DyStar’s patent over “Orange 288” dyes (“the Patent”). The SICC decided that compensation for such unauthorised use was to be assessed on the basis of a notional licence fee, ie, how much Longsheng would have paid DyStar to obtain its consent to use the Patent.3 The notional licence fee was to be assessed based on the quantity of infringing products produced by Longsheng falling within the scope of the Patent (the “Related Products”). In the Valuation Judgment, the SICC determined that in assessing the amount of the notional licence fee, the appropriate basis was to employ the methodology proposed by Senda’s expert, Mr Chan.4 On appeal from the Valuation Judgment, in Kiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another and other appeals and other matters [2022] SGCA(I) 5, the Court of Appeal disagreed with the SICC’s assessment of the notional licence fee on the basis of Mr Chan’s evidence. Thus, the Court of Appeal remitted the issue on the value of the notional licence fee to the SICC to be reassessed based on the best available evidence that was before it regarding the quantity of Related Products.5 In the present proceedings, the key issue for the SICC to determine is the tonnage of infringing products produced by Longsheng using the Patent, ie, the Related Products. As there was no direct evidence on the quantity of Related Products, the SICC must instead rely on the indirect evidence that was adduced.The SICC’s decision6 The SICC agreed with Kiri’s position on the meaning of “Related Products” – that they are those produced using the Patent (as opposed to all navy and black disperse dyes). The SICC had previously accepted Kiri’s position in the Valuation Judgment: at [12] and [13].7 Mr Chan’s expert report (“CKT-3”) was not adopted by the SICC for calculating the tonnage of Related Products. First, the model relied on by Mr Chan in CKT-3 is the same February 2020 model that had been rejected by the SICC previously in the Valuation Judgment because Senda failed to disclose the financial documents supporting it. Second, the figure of 41,750 tonnes in CKT-3 for all of the Related Products is inexplicably less than Longsheng’s total sales of just three of the Related Products (totalling over 50,000 tonnes): at [16]–[18].8 Mr Chan’s alternative computation, based on the revision of CKT-3, was also rejected. First, it is not evident why DyStar’s proportion of the sale of Related Products provides a reliable proxy for Longsheng’s own proportion. Second, the alternative computation suffers from the same defect that impacts CKT-3 in that it relies on unsupported data. Third, the calculated figure of 20,875 tonnes annually for all Related Products is again inexplicably lower than the figure of 50,000 tonnes produced annually for just three of the Related Products: at [20].9 Kiri’s expert, Ms Harfouche, estimated that Longsheng produced 120,000 tonnes of Related Products annually (after deducting 3,200 tonnes of Related Products that it produced for Dystar, it being common ground that this was a deductible). The calculation was summarised in her first table of estimates (using facts asserted by the Chief Executive Officer of DyStar, Mr Hopmann, in his affidavit of evidence-in-chief). Ms Harfouche cross-checked the accuracy of this figure using a second table of estimates (which relied on broker reports). There were errors in Ms Harfouche’s first table of estimates. The primary error was the assumption that all of Longsheng’s black and navy disperse dyes were Related Products, ie, produced using the Patent. Longsheng was capable of producing dyes without using the Patent and had other patents for dye production. Ms Harfouche was also incorrect in assuming that all of the production of another Chinese producer, Zhejiang Runtu Co Ltd, involved use of the Patent. Further, there was an inconsistency between the first table of estimates and the second table of estimates in terms of the assumptions that Ms Harfouche made regarding the proportion of Related Products and the approach she used to arrive at her conclusion: at [22]–[23], [26]–[29]. 10 Kiri’s reliance on the principle in Armory v Delamire is flawed as it is impermissible to draw an inference which is contrary to established facts. Accordingly, Ms Harfouche’s calculation of 123,000 tonnes in the first table of estimates is rejected: at [30]–[31].11 The SICC determined the tonnage of Related Products partly based on Ms Harfouche’s second table of estimates which was premised on reliable evidence in the form of publicly available broker reports. There was an error in the calculations in the second table of estimates, but once this was corrected, and after taking certain figures as appropriate proxy figures (in the absence of better evidence due to the inadequate disclosure by Senda), the figure of 56,750 tonnes of Related Products was arrived at. After deducting 3,200 tonnes (representing the Related Products that Longsheng produced for Dystar), which the parties accepted was a relevant deduction, the final figure of 53,550 tonnes annually was derived for the purposes of calculating the notional licence fee: at [32], [36]–[38].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
