
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE6 February 2023Case SummaryCUW and others v CUZ [2023] SGHC(I) 2Originating Application No. 1 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Sir Vivian Ramsey IJ):Outcome: The Singapore International Commercial Court dismisses an application to set aside an arbitral award on the basis that the arbitral tribunal (“Tribunal”) breached the rules of natural justice. Introduction1 The claimants, CUW, CUX and CUY, applied to set aside the Final Award (“Award”) made in an arbitration under the auspices of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (the “SIAC”) (the “Arbitration”), pursuant to s 24 of the International Arbitration Act 1994 (2020 Rev Ed) (“IAA”) and/or Art 34(2)(b)(ii) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“Model Law”) on the ground that breaches of natural justice had occurred in connection with the making of the Award.2 The dispute arose out of two agreements entered into by the parties concerning arrangements for providing two power plants in India (“Project”). 3 On or around 15 January 2013, CUX entered into a Term Sheet with CUZ. On 25 February 2013, two agreements (“Agreements”) were executed between the claimants and the respondent, with the respondent replacing another company as the claimants’ partner in the Project. The Agreements comprised firstly of a Share Subscription Agreement dated 25 February 2013 (“SSA”) under which CUW was the “Promoter”, CUX was the “Company”, the respondent was the “Investor”, CUX agreed to issue and allot equity shares to the respondent, and the respondent agreed to subscribe to those equity shares. Secondly, there was a Shareholders’ Agreement dated 25 February 2013 (“SHA”) which set out the rights and obligations of the parties as shareholder in CUX.4 Pursuant to the SSA, the respondent was to invest INR5.64b into the Project as a subscription to equity shares in CUX in three tranches. The respondent made the First Tranche Investment on 7 June 2013 and the Second Tranche Investment on 16 August 2013. 5 Under the SSA, there was a condition precedent that CUX would enter into a Common Loan Agreement (the “CLA”) with certain finance companies (collectively, the “Lenders”) in relation to the debt financing for the Project, prior to the Third Tranche Investment from the respondent.6 The respondent raised objections to the terms of the draft CLA and, in particular, contended that those terms requested amendments which were contrary to the terms of the respondent’s investment in the Project. The claimants contended that despite their attempts in 2014 and 2015 to address and resolve the respondent’s alleged concerns and objections to the draft CLA, the respondent refused to agree to the terms of the CLA.7 On 17 December 2015, the respondent issued a letter alleging that the Project cost had increased by more than 20% and that the expected commercial operation date had been delayed by more than 24 months.8 On 18 April 2016, the respondent issued to CUW and CUY a Material Adverse Change Notice (“MAC Notice”) under the SSA on the basis that a material adverse change on the Project had occurred and was still subsisting and calling on CUW to cure the MAC. 9 In addition, the respondent also objected to awarding [VVV] the contract for the works which formed the balance of project (“BOP” works) on the basis that a sole engineering, procurement, construction (“EPC”) contractor should be appointed to carry out both the boiler, turbine and generator work (“BTG”) and the BOP works.10 On 30 May 2016, CUW, on behalf of itself, CUX and CUY issued a letter to the respondent in which it sought to terminate the Agreements (the “May 2016 Letter”) on the basis that the respondent had committed a repudiatory breach of the Agreements and that the repudiation was accepted with effect from 18 April 2016, the date of the MAC Notice.11 On 22 December 2017, the respondent (as claimant) commenced the Arbitration against the claimants (as respondents) by filing a notice of arbitration (the “Notice of Arbitration”) referring disputes under the SSA and SHA to arbitration.12 On 25 July 2018, the respondent sent a written notice to the claimants (the “July 2018 Letter”) stating that the issuance of the purported termination letter of 30 May 2016, as well as the allegations in it, cumulatively or otherwise amounted to a repudiation of the Agreements, which the respondent accepted.13 In the Arbitration, the claimants submitted that they had validly terminated the Agreements by way of the May 2016 Letter due to the respondent’s conduct in obstructing the CLA. They also contended that even if their termination on 30 May 2016 was wrongful, the respondent affirmed the Agreements. The respondent’s position in the Arbitration was that its conduct in relation to the CLA was not a breach of the Agreements. Further, it contended that it did not affirm the Agreements after the May 2016 Letter. It also contended that, even if it did affirm the Agreements, the claimants committed a continuing repudiatory breach by treating the Agreements as terminated after 30 May 2016 so that it was entitled to terminate the Agreements on 25 July 2018.14 The Tribunal made the Award on 11 February 2022.15 In Originating Application No. 1 of 2022, the claimants seek to set aside the Award on four grounds:a. First, that the Tribunal, in breach of natural justice, failed to consider the claimants’ arguments that the respondent had, by its conduct, affirmed the Agreements following the issuance of the May 2016 Letter, thereby disentitling the respondent from subsequently terminating the Agreements for the same breach (the “Affirmation Defence Ground”).b. Second, that the Tribunal, in breach of natural justice, in considering whether the respondent’s conduct in relation to the CLA was reasonable, failed to consider the claimants’ arguments that the respondent’s objection to being classified as a “promoter” in the CLA was only an afterthought (the “Afterthought Argument Ground”). c. Third, that the Tribunal, in breach of natural justice, failed to consider the claimants’ argument that the respondent had breached cl 16.5 of the SHA (the “Clause 16.5 Breach Ground”) and had thereby committed a repudiatory breach of the Agreements, which breach the claimants accepted in their May 2016 Letter.d. Fourth, that the Tribunal, in breach of natural justice, having made a finding in the Partial Award that it would not make any ruling that CUY would be jointly and severally liable with CUW and CUX for any breach of the Agreements and having made findings at paragraphs 215 to 225 of the Tribunal’s Partial Award (“Partial Award”), ruled in the Award that CUY is jointly and severally liable with CUW and CUX which is inconsistent with the Partial Award and CUY was deprived of an opportunity to be heard on cl 14.1 of the SSA (the “Inconsistency Ground”).  The court’s decision16 Whilst the claimants say that the Tribunal did not deal with the affirmation defence in relation to the continuing breach, it is not clear what the claimants’ affirmation defence was in relation to the continuing breach. The facts relied on as affirmation only went to the end of 2017, as set out in [548(e)] of the Award. The final act of affirmation was the Notice of Arbitration of 22 December 2017. There was no act of affirmation alleged in relation to the continuing breach in June 2018 which was accepted on 25 July 2018. It is therefore difficult to see that there was the factual basis for an affirmation defence that applied to the breach which gave rise to the findings of repudiatory breach in June 2018 as set out in [560(d)] of the Award: at [69].17 Although, in their reply submissions, the claimants included a section under the heading “[The respondent] was not entitled to accept the [claimants’] alleged continuing repudiatory breach after affirming the Agreements”, that section merely sets out the position by reference to Kesar Singh. That does not, however, identify the act of affirmation. Nor does it set out any basis for the early acts of affirmation applying to later breaches of the Agreements: at [70].18 In any event, even if there was a breach of the rules of natural justice because the Tribunal did not consider the affirmation defence in relation to the continuing breach, the claimants have put forward no factual or legal basis on which the Tribunal might have found that the affirmation defence could be made out in relation to the continuing breach. On that basis, the claimants have not established the necessary prejudice: at [72].19 Whilst the claimants contended that the respondent’s alleged concerns with being named as a “promoter” were nothing more than an afterthought since the respondent had previously signed the lenders’ entity appraisal forms which identified it as a “promoter”, on analysis that has no effect on the relevant issue of whether the terms of the CLA conflicted with cl 19.1 of the SHA. If the terms of the CLA required the respondent to be a “promoter” and those terms conflicted with cl 19.1 of the SHA, then whether the concerns were an afterthought in terms of the respondent’s conduct in relation to the previous forms was irrelevant and of no consequence to that issue: at [120].20 In any event, even if the Tribunal was in breach of the rules of natural justice by failing to consider the Afterthought Argument Ground, this would only go to one of the nine breaches relied on and the Tribunal found that five of the other eight breaches had been established. Those objective findings of breach would not have been affected by the argument that the respondent’s contention that the requirement for it to be a promoter in the CLA in breach of cl 19.1 of the SHA was an afterthought: at [126].21 On the Clause 16.5 Breach Ground, the Tribunal considered and made a finding on the Clause 16.5 Issue and found that the respondent was not in breach, as alleged by the claimants. An application to set aside is not concerned with the decision of the Tribunal on the facts and the law, which is binding on the parties. In any event, there is no basis for asserting that the Tribunal could have come to any different decision and therefore the claimants cannot establish that there was any prejudice: at [153].22 Finally, on the Inconsistency Ground, the Partial Award dealt not with liability but with enforcement, finding that the respondent could not enforce a judgment against CUY until after CUW and CUX have failed or refused to comply with it. That has nothing to do with liability but interpreted the proviso to cl 14.1 of the SHA which CUY had contended meant that the respondent had to proceed against CUW and CUX before proceeding against CUY. The Award then went on and made findings of liability against CUY and held that he was jointly and severally liable with CUW and CUX. There is hence no inconsistency between the two awards: at [202]–[203].23 Furthermore, the Tribunal drew a clear distinction between joint and several liability in the first part of cl 14.1 and the two-stage enforcement in the proviso. There is nothing in the Partial Award which could possibly give the impression that the Tribunal would not make a finding of joint and several liability: at [205].24 For these reasons, the claimants’ application to set aside the Award on the four natural justice grounds is dismissed: at [208].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
