
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE3 February 2023Case summaryAsidokona Mining Resources Pte Ltd and another v Alternative Advisors Investments Pte Ltd [2023] SGHC(A) 6Appellate Division of the High Court – Civil Appeal No 28 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Kannan Ramesh JAD):Outcome: Appellate Division allows the appeal and dismisses the claim for repayment of a loan brought by the purported assignee of the purported lender’s rights under the loan agreement. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A principal ratifies the conduct of another who has purported to act on its behalf, albeit without authority. Where it has not been shown that someone purported to act on behalf of a principal, the principal may not ratify the acts of that person: at [69].•  Where a principal ratifies a contract purportedly made on its behalf, the contract is adopted. The principal is therefore obliged to perform the contract vis-à-vis the third party. Where performance has already taken place, and it is not shown that performance was by the principal or by someone purportedly on the principal’s behalf, the principal may not ratify the contract: at [70].•  Ratification cannot validate a cause of action that was not in place when the action was commenced. In this case, there was neither an enforceable contract nor an enforceable assignment that could be sued on until ratification took place. Thus, at the time of the commencement of the action, there was no valid cause of action and the action was void ab initio. The action was therefore fundamentally defective and could not be cured by a ratification that occurs after its commencement: at [79], [80] and [90].Background to the appeal1 Asidokona Mining Resources Pte Ltd (“Asidokona”) is a company incorporated in Singapore. Mr Soh Sai Kiang (“Mr Soh”) is its sole shareholder and director. In June 2016, Mr Soh sought the assistance of Mr Wong Joo Wan (“Mr Wong”) to arrange a loan of $2m to Asidokona (the “Loan”). Mr Wong was the principal director and shareholder of Alternative Advisors Investments Pte Ltd (“AAI”).2 To arrange the Loan, Mr Wong contacted Mr Ong Su Aun Jeffrey (“Mr Ong”), an advocate and solicitor who was then the managing partner of a Singapore law practice, JLC Advisors LLP (“JLC Advisors”). Mr Ong told Mr Wong that he had a client who was willing to contribute $1m towards the Loan. Mr Wong decided to raise the remaining $1m himself. Mr Wong raised the $1m from personal funds and loans from friends and colleagues.3 On 22 July 2016, Mr Soh signed a loan agreement, a deed of charge and a personal guarantee (the “Loan Documents”). The Loan Documents were prepared by a colleague of Mr Ong from JLC Advisors. The Loan Documents stated that the sole lender of the full $2m to Asidokona was one Supreme Star Investments (“SSI”), a company registered in the British Virgin Islands. Mr Wong was not also stated or identified as a lender or chargee in the Loan Documents despite having raised $1m towards the Loan. At this time, the Loan Documents were not signed by SSI or Mr Wong. On the same day, $1.69m ($2m less certain deductions for interest and transaction expenses) was disbursed from JLC Advisors’ client account to Asidokona. 4 By May 2017, Asidokona had defaulted on the Loan. In 2018, two deeds of assignment purporting to assign SSI’s rights under the Loan Documents to AAI (the “Deeds of Assignment”) were executed, with one executed on 30 March 2018 and the other on 15 November 2018. Mr Wong signed the Deeds of Assignment, purportedly on behalf of SSI. In 2018, Mr Wong also signed the Loan Documents.5 On 20 July 2018, the action below was commenced by AAI against Asidokona and Mr Soh for recovery of the Loan, amongst other things. The action below was based on the Deeds of Assignment. SSI was added as co-plaintiff in February 2019, but its claim was struck out in April 2020 following its failure to comply with a court order.6 On 26 July 2021, Ms Lou Swee Lan (“Ms Lou”), the sole shareholder and director of SSI, procured SSI to pass a director’s resolution to ratify Mr Wong’s execution of the Loan Documents and Deeds of Assignment, AAI’s commencement of the action below and the joinder of SSI to the action in February 2019 (the “Ratification”). Ms Lou asserted that she only became aware of the Loan Documents, the Deeds of Assignment and the action below in around March 2020.7 In the action below, the Judge found that the Ratification was valid. As such, she found in favour of AAI and ordered Asidokona and Mr Soh to pay AAI the principal sum of $2m plus interest, less sums that had been previously paid towards interest. Decision8 The Court allowed the appeal on the basis that AAI had failed to show that the Ratification was valid (at [72]). A principal ratifies the conduct of another who has purported to act on its behalf, albeit without authority. AAI failed to show that Mr Wong acted or purported to act on SSI’s behalf in relation to the Loan. Thus, SSI could not have ratified the Loan Documents (at [51] and [69]). 9 AAI also failed to show that $1m for the Loan came from SSI (at [60]). When a principal ratifies a contract with a third party purportedly made on its behalf, the principal is obliged to perform the contract as against the third party. Here, prior to Ratification, performance of the contract had already taken place and AAI had not shown that the performance was by SSI. If it were recognised that SSI could ratify the Loan Documents in such circumstances, SSI could adopt as its own the Loan and the funds disbursed thereunder when the funds could very well belong to another (at [70]). 10 Because the Court was unable to conclude that SSI could and did validly ratify the Loan Documents by the Ratification, the Deeds of Assignment did not assist AAI. The Deeds of Assignment were premised on SSI having rights to assign arising from the Loan Documents (at [67] and [72]).11 The Court also allowed the appeal on the basis that the Ratification, even if valid, could not retrospectively furnish a basis for the action below because it occurred after the commencement of the action (at [73] and [91]). It is a fundamental rule of civil procedure that a plaintiff must have a valid cause of action at the time of commencement of action (at [78]). In this case, there was no valid cause of action at the time of the commencement of the action below because the Loan Documents and the Deeds of Assignment had not yet been ratified. There is no contract enforceable by a principal until ratification takes place. Thus, there was no enforceable contract or deed of assignment when the action below was commenced, and the action was void ab initio (at [79]). If an action is void ab initio, an act of ratification undertaken post-commencement cannot restore validity to the action. AAI should have either commenced a new action after the Ratification, or only commenced the action after the Ratification (at [80]).12 The Court upheld the Judge’s decision to dispense with the requirement for SSI, as equitable assignor, to remain as co-plaintiff. The Court agreed that Asidokona had overstated the risk of double recovery, as any future action by SSI might be considered an abuse of process (at [96] and [97]). 13 The Court rejected Asidokona’s suggestion that an assignment of property rights savours of maintenance and champerty if the property rights were assigned for the sole purpose of allowing a cause of action to be maintained in court. This proposition was not borne out by the authorities. Thus, there was no reason to disturb the Judge’s finding on this issue (at [104]).14 The Court did not accept Asidokona’s submission that the irresistible inference was that JLC Advisors had misappropriated $1m for the Loan from money of other clients in JLC Advisors’ client account. Asidokona failed to discharge its burden to prove that this was the case (at [106]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
