
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 May 2023Case SummaryDeutsche Telekom AG v The Republic of India [2023] SGHC(I) 7Singapore International Commercial Court Originating Summons No 8 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Judgment of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Anselmo Reyes IJ):Outcome: The Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) dismissed the defendant’s application to refuse enforcement of the arbitral award, as well as the defendant’s applications to stay the enforcement proceedings pending the outcome of revision proceedings before the Swiss court, and to adduce further evidence in support of its stay application. Separately, the SICC dismissed the plaintiff’s application to strike out parts of the defendant’s affidavit evidence. Background 1 The plaintiff investor Deutcshe Telekom AG (“DT”), a multinational corporation incorporated in Germany, was an indirect owner of shares in an Indian company, Devas Multimedia Private Limited (“Devas”). DT became an investor after its wholly-owned Singapore subsidiary, Deutsche Telekom Asia Pte Ltd (“DT Asia”), made two equity contributions to Devas in 2008 and 2009, obtaining a 20.73% shareholding in the company. Devas had been incorporated in 2004 for the purpose of entering into an agreement with an Indian state-owned entity (“Antrix”) for the lease to Devas of S-Band electromagnetic spectrum on two satellites to be launched and manufactured by the Indian Space Research Organisation (the “Devas-Antrix Agreement”). It was contemplated that Devas would offer mobile multimedia and information services to the Indian market via a hybrid satellite-terrestrial communications platform. 2 Pursuant to a decision made by the Government of India that the Devas-Antrix Agreement be annulled, Antrix terminated the Devas-Antrix Agreement in 2011. DT subsequently commenced arbitration proceedings against the Republic of India on 2 September 2013 (the “Arbitration”), claiming that the annulment of the Devas-Antrix Agreement violated the bilateral investment treaty between India and Germany (“BIT”). 3 The Arbitration, seated in Switzerland, was heard by a three-member Tribunal. The Tribunal bifurcated the arbitration into an initial phase on jurisdiction and liability followed by a second phase on damages. On 13 December 2017, the Tribunal issued an Interim Award on jurisdiction and liability, finding India liable for breach of its fair and equitable treatment obligation under the BIT. India applied unsuccessfully to the Swiss Federal Supreme Court to set aside the Interim Award. The Tribunal then rendered its Final Award awarding damages to DT on 27 May 2020. On 3 September 2021, DT obtained a Leave Order in HC/OS 900/2021 to enforce the Final Award in Singapore. 4 Four applications were heard by the SICC over 2 days. The main application was India’s application in HC/SUM 155/2022 (“SUM 155”) to set aside the Leave Order on grounds that India was immune from the jurisdiction of the Singapore courts under s 3(1) of the State Immunity Act 1979. India made two further applications: (1) HC/SUM 24/2022 (“SUM 24”), which was India’s application for a case management stay pending the outcome of India’s application to  the Swiss Federal Supreme Court to review its decision to refuse to set aside the Interim Award (the “Swiss Revision Application”), and (2) HC/SUM 45/2022 (“SUM 45”), which was India’s application for leave to adduce further evidence in support of SUM 24. DT separately applied in HC/SUM 720/2022 (“SUM 720”) to strike out parts of India’s affidavit evidence in SUM 155. SUM 1555 The main issue in SUM 155 was whether the case fell within any of the exceptions to state immunity in s 11(1) of the State Immunity Act 1979 given that India had agreed to submit to arbitration under Art 9 of the BIT. India argued that DT’s investment fell outside the scope of Art 9, for several reasons.6 First, India argued that DT’s investment was not in accordance with India’s national laws (the “Illegality Argument”). In support of this, India argued that: a. In the negotiations leading to the Devas-Antrix Agreement, Devas and its original investors made fraudulent representations about Devas’ ability to deliver certain technologies and its holding of intellectual property rights, which DT must have known about by virtue of its due diligence conducted before investing in Devas via DT Asia.b. The Devas-Antrix Agreement was illegal because it was entered into without a tender or auction process, in contravention of national law. DT was similarly tainted with this illegality since it must have known of the illegality through its due diligence but proceeded with the investment anyway.c. The Devas-Antrix Agreement was illegal because it contravened India’s SATCOM Policy, which prohibited a party from engaging in both telecommunications and broadcasting services. DT must again have known of this having conducted due diligence prior to its investment.d. Governmental approval for DT’s investment had been conditional upon Devas operating as an Internet Services Provider (“ISP”), but DT’s investment had contravened this because the services to be provided by Devas under the Devas-Antrix Agreement was different in nature from ISP services.e. DT, through its nominee directors on Devas’ board, was party to the illegal transfer of funds out of Devas to a US entity, which contravened governmental approval for DT’s investment.7 In support of the Illegality Argument, India argued that findings in the judgments of the Indian National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”), National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (“NCLAT”) and the Supreme Court of India (“SCI”), made in the context of winding-up proceedings commenced by Antrix against Devas before the NCLT, constituted a compelling basis for the SICC to conclude that DT’s investment was not in accordance with India’s national laws by reason of fraud or illegality.8 Second, India argued that DT’s investment merely amounted to pre-investment expenditure falling outside the scope of the BIT, which was an “admission clause” treaty by virtue of Art 3(1). Further steps were required before the investment could be admitted as a covered investment within the terms of the BIT, such as Devas obtaining the requisite licenses and approvals to implement its services, but which Devas failed to do (the “Pre-Investment Expenditure Argument”).9 Third, India argued DT’s investment was an indirect investment which did not fall within the ambit of Art 2 of the BIT, because it was DT Asia and not DT which acquired the shares in Devas (the “Indirect Investment Argument”). 10 Fourth, India argued that the subject matter of the dispute fell within the “essential security interests” carve-out in Art 12 of the BIT (the “Essential Security Interests Argument”). 11 In addition to its arguments on state immunity, India additionally argued that the Leave Order should be revoked because (a) the Tribunal lacked jurisdiction under ss 31(2)(b) and 31(2)(d) of the International Arbitration Act 1994 (“IAA”); (b) enforcement of the Final Award would be contrary to the public policy of Singapore under s 31(4)(b) of the IAA; and (c) DT did not make full and frank disclosure when applying to the court ex parte for leave to enforce the award (the “Additional Grounds”).SUM 2412 India sought a case management stay pending the outcome of the Swiss Revision Application, which it brought on the basis of alleged findings of fraud in the SCI judgment handed down on 17 January 2022. India contended that it had a realistic prospect of success before the Swiss court, and argued that a stay would save judicial resources and avoid potentially inconsistent judgments between the Swiss and Singapore courts because India was running the same arguments before both courts. SUM 4513 After the substantive hearing of SUM 155 and SUM 24 had been concluded, India applied in SUM 45 to adduce, as fresh evidence, an order of the US District Court for the District of Columbia (the “US Court Order”) granting a stay of DT’s proceedings to enforce the Final Award in the US pending the outcome of the Swiss Revision Application, as well as the court papers filed in the US stay application (the “Stay Application Papers”). India submitted that this evidence would assist the SICC when deciding SUM 24.SUM 72014 DT applied in SUM 720 to strike out as irrelevant parts of India’s expert affidavit evidence on Indian law referring to the NCLT, NCLAT and SCI judgments, on the ground that the judgments had no binding or legal effect and should not be recognised nor given any weight.The SICC’s Decision in SUM 155The Illegality Argument15 The SICC disagreed with India’s case on illegality. 16 The SICC declined to draw an inference that DT would have known of Devas’ fraud merely because it undertook due diligence of Devas prior to its investment. It could not rule out the real possibility that DT was itself a victim of fraud by Devas’ original shareholders: at [75]–[87].17 The SICC was not persuaded that DT would have known through its nominee directors on Devas’ board that the services to be provided under the Devas-Antrix Agreement and the transfer of funds invested in Devas were contrary to governmental approval: at [88]–[91].18 The SICC found that there was no evidential basis for India’s arguments that the Devas-Antrix Agreement contravened national law and India’s SATCOM Policy: at [92]–[93].The Pre-Investment Expenditure Argument19 The SICC disagreed that the Art 3(1) of the BIT authorised India to decide whether to “admit” something as an investment protected by the BIT. DT’s investment fell within the definition of “investment” in Art 1(b) of the BIT and nothing more needed to be done. In any case, DT’s investment was “admitted” by virtue of governmental approval for its purchase of Devas’ paid-up share capital: at [97].The Indirect Investment Argument 20 The SICC found that on the plain words of the provisions in the BIT, there was no basis to suggest that the BIT did not cover indirect investments: at [101].The Essential Security Interests Argument21 The SICC rejected the Essential Security Interests Argument. This had already been argued by India in the Arbitration and rejected by the Tribunal on the ground that the conditions of Art 12 of the BIT had not been met. There was no basis upon which the SICC could review the merits of the Tribunal’s substantive determination on the issue: at [112].The Additional Grounds22 The SICC found that the none of the Additional Grounds had merit. The grounds to set aside the Leave Order or refuse enforcement of the Final Award under the IAA were based on the same arguments raised by India in relation to jurisdiction and DT’s complicity in Devas’ fraud. There was also no substance to the complaint of non-disclosure as India’s Swiss setting aside application had been disclosed in DT’s supporting affidavit: at [115].The SICC’s observations on issues of estoppel, res judicata and waiver23 While the SICC disagreed with India’s arguments on the merits, it provided further observations in light of the parties’ submissions on issues involving estoppel, res judicata and waiver. The SICC made the following observations:a. The SICC disagreed that the judgments of the NCLT, NCLAT and SCI could constitute evidence of fraud or illegality on the part of DT. The findings in those judgments could not be regarded as binding on DT because (a) DT was not a party to the proceedings leading to those judgments; and (b) the proceedings were decided on a summary basis without any cross-examination of witnesses: at [123]–[135].b. The SICC took the view that India was precluded by the doctrine of res judicata from raising the Indirect Investment Argument, Pre-Investment Expenditure Argument and Essential Security Interests Argument to challenge the Tribunal’s jurisdiction in the present proceedings because these grounds had already been unsuccessfully raised before the Swiss Federal Supreme Court. The Swiss Federal Supreme Court’s judgment had negative res judicata effect: at [150], [153]. c. The SICC took the view that pursuant to Art 186(2) of the Swiss Private International Law Act, which governed the Arbitration, India was deemed to have waived any jurisdictional objections which it did not raise before the Tribunal. In this case, these included India’s allegations that (a) DT was complicit in Devas’ fraud; (b) DT’s investment was contrary to governmental approval conditions; and (c) DT’s investment was contrary to India’s SATCOM Policy: at [162]–[171].The SICC’s Decision in SUM 24, SUM 45 and SUM 72024 The SICC declined to grant India’s stay application in SUM 24. The SICC found that the SCI’s judgment did not contain any material new evidence which had not already been raised before the Tribunal and the Swiss Federal Supreme Court. Consequently, the SICC assessed that the Swiss Revision Application had a minimal prospect of success. Thus, the risk of inconsistent conclusions was low at best. There would also be no saving of judicial resources given the late stage in which the stay application was brought: at [175]–[181].  25 The SICC dismissed India’s application in SUM 45 to adduce the US Court Order and Stay Application Papers as evidence in support of SUM 24. The Stay Application Papers were available before the hearing of SUM 24 and SUM 155, but India chose not to adduce them. Further, the US Court Order was only a factor for the SICC to consider, and the way the US court weighed India’s arguments was not pertinent to the SICC’s own exercise of discretion: at [185]–[186].26 The SICC dismissed DT’s application in SUM 720 to strike out parts of India’s expert affidavit evidence on Indian law. This was an unnecessary application as parties could simply make their submissions on the relevance or irrelevance of the evidence, and the court would decide whether the evidence was material and the extent to which it would be accepted: at [188]. Conclusion27 The SICC dismissed SUM 155, SUM 24, and SUM 45 with India to bear DT’s costs for those applications. The SICC further dismissed SUM 720 with no order as to costs. The SICC directed the parties to agree on quantum of costs payable in respect of SUM 155, SUM 24 and SUM 45, and to make submissions on costs if they were unable to agree: at [191]–[192].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
