
SUPREME COURT OF
SINGAPORE

17 August 2017 

MEDIA SUMMARY

Lee Wei Ling and
another v Attorney-General
Civil Appeal No 149 of 2016 

Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by
Sundaresh Menon CJ)
1                   
This was an appeal by the
executors of the estate of Singapore’s founding Prime Minister, Mr Lee Kuan Yew
(“Mr Lee”), against the decision of the High Court judge to dismiss their
application for certain declarations of rights in tape recordings and
transcripts of interviews conducted with Mr Lee in the 1980s (collectively “the
Transcripts”). This appeal fundamentally turned on the proper construction of
an interview agreement signed by Mr Lee and two Government officials which
governed the rights in and the use and administration of the Transcripts. 
Background to the appeal 
2                   
In the early 1980s, the
Government embarked on an oral history project to document significant
historical, political and social events in Singapore. This project involved
interviews with key political appointment-holders, including Mr Lee. In 1983,
Mr Lee signed an agreement setting out the terms and conditions governing the
rights in and the use and administration of the Transcripts with the Cabinet
Secretary and the Director of the Archives and Oral History Department, Ministry
of Culture. The interview agreement was drafted by the incumbent
Attorney-General at that time, Mr Tan Boon Teik (“Attorney-General Tan”). All
three signatories to the interview agreement, as well as Attorney-General Tan,
have passed away.   
3                   
Prior to Mr Lee’s death, a copy
of the Transcripts was kept at his residence as he was working on his memoirs.
After Mr Lee passed away, a family member handed the copy of the Transcripts to
the current Cabinet Secretary. When the executors of his estate, Ms Lee Wei
Ling and Mr Lee Hsien Yang, discovered this, they requested permission to
peruse the Transcripts. Mr Lee Hsien Yang was allowed to do so at the premises
of the Ministry of Home Affairs, on the condition that he undertook to safeguard
official information. 
4                   
Thereafter, solicitors for the executors
wrote to the Attorney-General’s Chambers (“AGC”) (a) requesting a copy of the
Transcripts; (b) seeking confirmation as to whether Mr Lee had, during his
lifetime, permitted any person to access, to be given a copy, or to use the
Transcripts and (c) seeking confirmation that going forward, such access would
only be granted with the permission of Mr Lee’s estate. The AGC declined to
provide a copy of the Transcripts to the executors on the ground that Mr Lee
did not contemplate copies being made unless he had personally sanctioned this,
and that in any event, the information therein was protected by the Official
Secrets Act (Cap 213, 2012 Rev Ed) (“the OSA”). Further, the right to grant
access to the Transcripts was a right personal to Mr Lee and did not pass on to
the estate. It also declined to provide confirmation as to whether Mr Lee had
provided such permissions to persons during his lifetime. 
5                   
On 2 September 2015, the
executors filed an originating summons in the High Court seeking the following
declarations: 
(a)               
All rights accorded to Mr Lee
under the Interview Agreement are vested in Mr Lee’s estate; 
(b)              
Mr Lee’s estate is entitled to
use and have copies of the Transcripts;
(c)               
There shall be no access to,
supply of copies of, or use of the Transcripts by anyone until five years after
Mr Lee’s death, without the express written permission of Mr Lee’s estate; and
(d)              
The Cabinet Secretary is under
a duty to inform Mr Lee’s estate of any request made after the death of Mr Lee
for access to, supply of copies of, or use of the Transcripts, and of the grant
of any such request without the express written permission of Mr Lee’s estate.
6                   
The High Court judge refused to
grant the declarations sought by the executors, holding that the OSA applied to
the Transcripts. He also held that although Mr Lee’s estate inherited the
copyright to the Transcripts for five years after his death, this was for the
limited purpose of ensuring that the Government abided by the interview
agreement. 
Judgment 
7                   
In the executors’ appeal
against the decision of the High Court judge, the Court of Appeal dismissed the
appeal and declined to grant the declarations sought by the executors. 
Reasons for the judgment
The context of the
interview agreement
8                   
The Court of Appeal emphasised
that the interview agreement must be construed with due regard to its critical
context in which it was drafted. These considerations include the following.
First, Mr Lee had a pre-eminent role as the founding and incumbent Prime
Minister of Singapore at the time of the interviews, which meant he would have
been privy to a large amount of critical and confidential information ([28]). Second, the interviews, being
part of an oral history project, were not creative endeavours but an attempt to
record the history of a young nation state. Restrictions on such transcripts were
envisaged and in fact imposed by some interviewees, including Mr Lee ([29]). Third, while some parts of the Transcripts
pertained to Mr Lee’s personal matters, most of the Transcripts canvassed
materials that were at least potentially of a politically sensitive nature ([30]). The material was likely to be
subject to the OSA as they contained information that Mr Lee obtained by virtue
of his position as a person who held office under the Government at that time ([33]). Fourth, the correspondence between
Mr Lee and Attorney-General Tan regarding the drafting of the interview
agreement clearly evidenced Mr Lee’s specific concern to safeguard the
confidentiality of the politically sensitive Transcripts; the interview
agreement was drafted with a view to addressing that concern ([35]–[40]).     
The contents of the
interview agreement
9                   
Taking into account the text of
the interview agreement and the specific context outlined above, the effects of
the interview agreement were as follows. The ownership of the physical Transcripts vested in the
Government; this was unsurprising as they were produced as part of the
Government’s oral history project and undertaken using public resources ([44]). However, the Government’s
ownership of the physical Transcripts was not unfettered; instead, it owed
certain duties and responsibilities to Mr Lee as set out in the interview
agreement, primarily to protect Mr Lee’s desire for confidentiality of the
Transcripts ([45]). Significantly,
Mr Lee owned the copyright in the Transcripts
until the year 2000 or five years after his death, whichever was later (“the
critical time”) ([47]). Consequently,
the ownership of the physical Transcripts
and the ownership of the copyright in
the Transcripts vested in different parties. As a result, neither the
Government nor Mr Lee, acting alone, would be able to have complete control
over the Transcripts: if Mr Lee, as the copyright owner, wished to exercise his
rights in the Transcripts (such as to reproduce, publish, communicate or adapt
them), he needed to have access to the physical documents. This would require
the consent of the Government. As noted below at para 12, Mr Lee did secure
such a right for his own use of the materials during his lifetime. Similarly,
although the Government owned the physical Transcripts, it would not be
entitled to exercise any of the rights of a copyright owner (such as making a
copy of the Transcripts) without Mr Lee’s consent. Otherwise, it would be in
breach of copyright. This system of dual controls furthered the objective of
safeguarding the confidentiality of the Transcripts ([49]).
10               
The interview agreement further
stipulated that until the critical time, the Transcripts were to remain in the
custody of the Cabinet Secretary. This again directly addressed Mr Lee’s
concerns of safeguarding the politically sensitive information in the
Transcripts ([51]). Further, there was
to be no access to, supply of copies
of or use of the Transcripts except with Mr Lee’s prior written permission and
subject to any conditions he might impose. This reserved flexibility for
further and more nuanced control on Mr Lee’s part and dovetailed with the desire
to protect the security and confidentiality of the information in the
Transcripts ([52]). However, even if
Mr Lee had given such permission to third parties, the Government was not bound
to allow such access if it did not consider this appropriate in the
circumstances.
11               
After the critical time, the
Government will own both the physical
Transcripts as well as the copyright in them. It can also make the Transcripts
available to persons, but such access is only allowed for the purposes of such research
as the Government may approve. This means that the Government retains the
right, even after the critical time, to withhold access to the Transcripts ([55]).
12               
The interview agreement further
provides that Mr Lee’s own right to
use and access the Transcripts, including to publish them, was not affected
(subject, of course, to the strictures of the OSA). This would overcome the
conundrum caused by the separation of ownerships of the physical Transcripts
and the copyright in them, as explained above ([57]). In the event that Mr Lee chose to publish the Transcripts, the
copyright would remain vested in him even after the critical time. The
Government would also, immediately upon such publication, acquire the right to
make the Transcripts available for research. But as it turned out, the
Transcripts were never published ([58]).


Whether Mr Lee’s rights
under the interview agreement passed to his estate
13               
The entire bundle of Mr Lee’s copyright
passed on to his estate. This included both the positive rights (to do and to
authorise others to do certain exclusive acts, such as to reproduce and publish)
as well as the negative rights (to prevent others from doing those very acts)
of a copyright. However, because the ownership of the physical Transcripts and the ownership of the copyright in them vested in different parties, the estate could not
practically exercise any of the positive rights of its copyright without the
consent of the Government, who owned the physical Transcripts. Although Mr Lee
had carved out certain rights for himself
in the interview agreement to ensure that he
could use and access those Transcripts, the text of the interview agreement
made it clear that these were personal in nature and did not pass on to the
estate. In arriving at this conclusion, the Court of Appeal noted that Mr Lee
did not even have a known will at the time of the interview agreement and had
also not yet appointed any executors ([63]).
Nonetheless, the estate would be able to exercise its negative rights to bring
infringement actions against third parties for any breaches of copyright ([64]). 
14               
Mr Lee’s right to grant
permission to persons for access to, supply of copies of and use of the Transcripts
was personal to him and did not pass on to his estate. Again, this was because
the language of the interview agreement clearly showed that only Mr Lee himself was authorised to grant
such permissions. However, if the Government manifested an intention to allow the
copying or use of the Transcripts without Mr Lee’s permission, the estate was
in a position, by virtue of the negative rights under its copyright, to bring
an action to restrain the Government from being in breach of copyright ([65]).
15               
Mr Lee’s personal right to use
the Transcripts also did not pass on to his estate. If it did, the information
in the Transcripts would likely have to be communicated to the executors, but
this would potentially be an offence under the OSA. It would equally be an
offence for the executors to retain such information ([66]). 
16               
Thus, although Mr Lee had
secured for himself certain rights under the interview agreement while imposing
some restrictions on the Government’s ownership rights, these were personal
rights of his and not transmissible even to his estate. These do not, however,
affect the right of his estate to bring copyright infringement actions in the exercise
of its negative rights under the copyright ([69]).
Conclusion
17               
For these reasons, the Court of
Appeal declined to grant any of the declarations sought by the executors. As
explained above, it was not the case that all rights vested in Mr Lee under the
interview agreement vested in his estate. The estate was not entitled to use
and/or have copies of the Transcripts. The right to grant permission for access
to, supply of copies and use of the Transcripts was a personal right of Mr Lee
and his estate did not inherit this right. Without such personal permission
from Mr Lee, even the Government could not allow such access until after the
critical time. There was also no obligation on the part of the Cabinet
Secretary to make the estate aware of any requests for copies of the
Transcripts after Mr Lee’s death ([70]).

This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the
Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding
paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment. 
**********
