
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE20 January 2023Case summaryEthoz Capital Ltd v Im8ex Pte Ltd and others [2023] SGCA 3Civil Appeal No 28 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: The Court of Appeal allows the appeal in part, but upholding the main part of the High Court’s findings on whether the payment of Total Interest upon default and the Default Interest, were unenforceable penalties.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  There is a difference between paying a debt immediately and paying a debt in instalments over a period of time: at [46].•  When determining whether a clause creates a primary obligation or secondary obligation triggered upon breach, it is important that a court analyse the whole contract and not just the impugned clauses in isolation: at [53]. •  While the burden of proving that a clause is a penalty is generally on the party asserting it, the evidential burden may shift if sufficient evidence has been adduced: at [69], [75].•  There is no need to invoke relief against forfeiture in a mortgagor-mortgagee situation because the mortgagor retains a beneficial interest in the property under the equity of redemption: at [119].Background 1 The appellant, Ethoz Capital Ltd (“Ethoz”) lent $6.3m to the 1st respondent, Im8ex Pte Ltd (“Im8ex”) under three loan facilities (“the Prior Facilities”) which were secured by mortgages over four different properties (“the Properties”) and were also guaranteed by the 2nd and 3rd respondents. 2 The parties began to discuss renewing the Prior Facilities, and eventually signed a new set of four loan facilities (“the Facilities”). The total amount advanced under the Facilities was also $6.3m (“the Advance”), and like the Prior Facilities, they were also secured by mortgages over the Properties and guaranteed by the 2nd and 3rd respondents. a. Clauses 5(A) and 7(A) provided that the Facilities were at an interest rate of 3.75% per annum, with 180 equal monthly instalment payments to be made over 15 years. The instalment payments were set out in Schedule 3 of the Facilities and comprised of repayments of the Advance and interest payments. Schedule 3 also defined the term “Total Interest” as being the aggregate of all 180 interest payments. b. Total Interest was “deemed earned and accrued” upon the drawdown of the Advance as per Clause 7(B). Further, Clause 14(B)(2) provided that the Total Interest would be “immediately due and payable” upon an event of default (which included the failure to pay a sum under the Facilities when it is due). Further, upon default, Im8ex would have to pay default interest (“Default Interest”) at a rate of 0.065% per day (“the Default interest Rate”). c. Im8ex could prepay the Facilities under Clause 6 by paying the Advance and “interest computed thereon in full” as per Clause 6(B). 3 Im8ex defaulted on payment within the first year of all the Facilities. Ethoz filed an originating summons seeking the delivery of vacant possession of the Properties, and the payment of the Advance, the Total Interest and the Default Interest. This was granted and Im8ex filed an appeal which was heard by judge of the General Division of the High Court (“the Judge”), arguing that the payment of Total Interest upon default and Default Interest were unenforceable penalties.4 The Judge allowed Im8ex’s appeal. a. First, he found that the payment of Total Interest upon default was a secondary obligation and ultimately, an unenforceable penalty. b. Second, he held that the payment of Default Interest was an unenforceable penalty as the Default Interest rate was an “extravagant increase” from regular contractual interest rate. c. Third, he found that Ethoz had misrepresented to Im8ex that the terms of the Facilities were better than the terms of the Prior Facilities (“the Better Facilities Representation”) and this induced Im8ex into entering the Facilities. d. Fourth, the Judge allowed Im8ex to make prepayment under Clause 6(B) of the Facilities by paying only the Advance and loan interest, ordering that Im8ex pay the sum of $4,041,987.21. Decision5 Ethoz appealed to the Court of Appeal (“the CA”). It argued that the Judge erred in finding that:a. Ethoz had made the Better Facilities Representation and Im8ex was induced by it (“the Misrepresentation Issue”);b. The payment of Total Interest upon default and the Default Interest were unenforceable penalties (“the Penalty Issue”); and c. Im8ex could make prepayment under Clause 6(B) of the Facilities (“the Redemption Issue”). The Misrepresentation Issue 6 The CA agreed with Ethoz that the Judge should not have made a finding of misrepresentation because the issue of misrepresentation was not argued by either party before the Judge, and there was no factual basis for such a finding: at [26]–[30]. The Penalty Issue 7 The CA first considered the “threshold issue” of whether the payment of Total Interest upon default was a primary obligation, or a secondary obligation triggered by a breach of the Facilities. Observing that there is a difference between paying a debt immediately and paying a debt in instalments over a period of time, the CA drew a distinction between (a) the payment of Total Interest in instalments; and (b) the immediate and full payment of Total Interest upon default. It held that the former was the primary obligation under the Facilities, while the latter was a secondary obligation triggered only upon breach. In coming to this conclusion, the CA stressed that it is important that a court analyse the whole contract (and not just the impugned clauses) when determining whether a clause creates a primary obligation or secondary obligation triggered upon breach: at [46], [53], [55], [62]. 8 The CA then went on to consider whether the full and immediate payment of Total Interest upon default and the payment of Default Interest were unenforceable penalties. a. It first noted that while the burden of proving that a clause is a penalty is generally on the party asserting it, the evidential burden may shift if sufficient evidence has been adduced: at [69], [75].b. On the full and immediate payment of Total Interest, the CA held that it was a payment of money that operates in terrorem of Im8ex, forcing it to comply with its primary obligation under the Facilities: at [79], [88]. c. On the payment of Default Interest, the CA held that it was an unenforceable penalty as on the face of the Facilities, the increase between the regular interest rate and the Default Interest rate was an “extravagant increase” which Ethoz could not justify: at [97], [99]–[102].The Redemption Issue 9 The CA then dealt with whether Im8ex could redeem the Facilities. a. It first held that the Judge erred in allowing Im8ex to make prepayment of the Facilities under Clause 6(B) because it did not give three months’ notice and further, prepayment could not be made in the event of default: at [108], [111]. b. It then held that there was no need to invoke relief against forfeiture in a mortgagor-mortgagee situation because the mortgagor retains a beneficial interest in the property under the equity of redemption which entitles the mortgagor the right to obtain a retransfer of property upon full repayment: at [119].  c. Im8ex was allowed to exercise its equity of redemption: it was granted a period of three months to redeem the Facilities by paying the Advance and loan interest: at [121]–[122]. 10 On the amount that Im8ex was to pay, the CA held that Im8ex should make payment based on Schedule 3 because the primary obligation under the Facilities was to make instalment payments of Total Interest following Schedule 3. Referring to Schedule 3, Im8ex was ordered to pay $4,520,210.88: at [126], [129]–[130]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
