
SUPREME COURT OF
SINGAPORE

28 July 2017 

MEDIA SUMMARY

Stansilas Fabian Kester v Public Prosecutor 
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9320 of 2016/01 

Decision of the High Court (delivered by
Sundaresh Menon CJ)
1                   
This was an appeal against the
sentence imposed on the appellant for the offence of driving a motor vehicle,
having consumed so much alcohol that the proportion of it in his breath
exceeded the prescribed limit, under s 67(1)(b) of the Road Traffic Act (Cap 276, 2004 Rev Ed) (“the RTA”). The
central issue in this appeal was whether the custodial threshold is crossed
when and because the offender’s drunk driving results in injury to a person
and/or property. A secondary issue was whether an offender’s contributions and
services to the public may be regarded as a mitigating factor in
sentencing.  
Background to the appeal 
2                   
The appellant accelerated
toward a road traffic junction after seeing the traffic signal turn amber. By
the time he reached the junction, the signal had turned red against him. His
vehicle continued through the junction, brushed past a pedestrian and collided
into a motorcyclist. The pedestrian suffered a crush injury of the right foot
and the motorcyclist experienced retrograde and anterograde amnesia. None of
the injuries were very serious. The collision also caused scratches and dents
to the appellant’s car and the victim’s motorcycle.
3                   
The appellant was found to have
43μg of alcohol in every 100ml of breath, which was 8μg above the
prescribed limit. He pleaded guilty to a charge under s 67(1)(b) of the RTA
and consented to a separate charge of dangerous driving under s 64(1)
being taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. The appellant was
sentenced by the district judge to two weeks’ imprisonment for the s 67(1)(b) offence and
also disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving license for a period of
three years from his release from prison. 
4                   
The appellant had two main
arguments on appeal. First, the custodial threshold had not been crossed and
the sentence of imprisonment should be substituted with a fine in the
appropriate amount. Second, the appellant’s 15 years of service to the
Singapore Armed Forces (“the SAF”), in which he holds the rank of Major, should
be regarded as a mitigating factor in determining his sentence. The appellant
further argued that he had already felt the consequences of his actions as the
SAF had withheld his performance bonuses and merit increments following the
incident, and would discharge him altogether if a custodial sentence was
imposed. 
Decision on appeal 
5                   
The High Court allowed the
appeal in part, reducing the sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment imposed by the
district judge to one week. The three-year period of disqualification from
driving that the district judge ordered was to remain. 
Sentencing drunk drivers
who cause physical injury and/or property damage to others 
6                   
Save in an exceptional category
of cases, when a person causes injury to persons or damage to property as a
result of his drunk driving and is convicted of the offence under s 67(1)(b) of the RTA,
the starting point for sentencing such a person is a custodial sentence. This
does not mean that the offender must necessarily serve a custodial sentence,
but rather that the prima facie position
is that the custodial threshold has been crossed and a term of imprisonment
should be imposed unless the mitigating factors warrant a departure from this
starting point. ([39])
7                   
In assessing the overall
gravity of the offence, it is relevant to consider, first, the degree of harm
caused; and second, the culpability of the offender. The degree of harm caused
can be assessed according to the categories of slight, moderate, serious or
very serious harm; and the culpability of the offender through the categories
of low, medium and high culpability. The custodial threshold will not typically
be crossed in cases involving (a) slight injury (meaning that there is only
slight or moderate property damage and/or slight physical injury characterised
by no hospitalisation or medical leave) and (b) low culpability (which is
characterised by low blood/breath alcohol level and no evidence of dangerous
driving behaviour). In any other setting, the custodial threshold would be
crossed and the period of imprisonment should be determined according to where
on the continuum of harm and culpability the offender falls. ([74]–[75] and [77]) 

8             In every other case outside of this exceptional category(ie, involving slight harm and low culpability), the sentencing court
should calibrate the seriousness of the offence by considering where on the
continuum of harm and culpability the offender falls and thereby arrive at an
indicative sentence that has due regard to the entirety of the sentencing range
permissible under statute. The indicative sentencing ranges, calibrated
according to the degree of harm caused and the offender’s culpability, should
be considered by the court once it is satisfied that the custodial threshold
has been crossed. In the exercise of its sentencing discretion, the court
should assess the relevant interaction of harm and culpability having regard to
the following:

(a)               
A term of imprisonment of
between four and six months in cases of very serious harm and high culpability;
(b)              
 A term of imprisonment of between two and four
months in cases of serious harm and high culpability or of very serious harm
and medium culpability;
(c)               
 A term of imprisonment of up to two months in
cases of moderate harm and high culpability, of serious harm and medium
culpability, of very serious harm and low culpability or of slight harm and
high culpability; and
(d)              
 A term of imprisonment of up to a month in
cases involving other combinations of the degrees of harm and culpability
identified at [75] of the Court’s
judgment. ([78])
Mitigating value of public
service and contributions 
9                   
Any evidence concerning the offender’s public
service and contributions must be targeted at showing that specific sentencing
objectives – ie, retribution, prevention, deterrence
and/or rehabilitation – will be satisfied even were a lighter sentence to be
imposed on the offender. The fact that an offender has made past contributions to society might
be mitigating if it is indicative of his capacity to reform and reduces the
concern over specific deterrence. This, however, would carry modest weight and
can be displaced where other sentencing objectives assume greater importance.
([102])
10               
In the context of the offence
under s 67(1)(b)
of the RTA, the retributive principle is a crucial consideration where the
offender has caused injury or property damage as a result of his drunk driving.
The principle of general deterrence also assumes particular prominence due to
the great potential for harm to others posed by such conduct. In the
circumstances, little mitigating weight can be accorded to an offender’s public
service or contributions when he commits the offence of drunk driving and particularly
where he has caused injury to others as a result. ([97]–[100])
11               
The Court rejected the
appellant’s argument that the degree of punishment should be reduced because
the SAF has already taken measures against him. An employer imposes penalties
on its employee for reasons that are not only difficult for the court to
determine, but more importantly that have little to do with the rationale for
punishment under the criminal law. Neither did the Court place any weight on
the fact that the appellant would be discharged from the SAF if he was
sentenced to a term of imprisonment. A person who breaches the criminal law can expect to face the consequences
that follow under the criminal law. Whether or not such an offender has already
or may as a result suffer other professional or contractual consequences should
not be relevant to the sentencing court. ([109]–[111])
12               
The present case was classified
as a case of moderate harm and medium culpability. The appellant caused injury
to two persons as a result of his drunk driving. While his alcohol level was on
the lower end of the scale, his driving behaviour was dangerous. He created a
source of immense danger when he accelerated into a junction at the
intersection of two busy roads in the Central Business District during peak
traffic hours. In doing so, he also violated road traffic rules by beating a
red light. A second charge of dangerous driving was taken into consideration
for the purpose of sentencing. The Court was therefore satisfied that the
custodial threshold had been crossed. It also found that the circumstances of
the offence did not warrant any departure from this starting position. ([112]–[113]) 
13               
As a case involving moderate
harm and medium culpability, the starting point was a term of imprisonment of two
weeks. However, the Court attributed mitigating weight to the appellant’s
payment of compensation to both victims, which was not mentioned by the
district judge in his decision. Although the appellant’s payment of
compensation arose out of civil suits instituted against him by the victims,
the amounts he paid were reasonably substantial and it appeared that he was
sincerely attempting to make it up to the victims. The policy of the law should
be to encourage this. ([114]–[115])
14               
In the circumstances, the Court
reduced the sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment imposed by the district judge
to one week and ordered that the three-year period of disqualification from
driving that the district judge ordered was to remain. The appeal was therefore
allowed to this extent. ([116])
This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the
Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding
paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment. 
