







SUPREME COURT SINGAPORE










SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE

25 July
        2017

Media
        Summary
 

Public Prosecutor v Sakthikanesh s/o Chidambaram and
        other appeals and another matter 
 

Magistrate’s
        Appeals No 9259, 9260 and 9312 of 2016; Criminal Motion No 13 of 2017
 

Decision
        of the High Court (delivered by Chao Hick Tin JA)
 

Background
 

1                   
        MA 9259 of 2016, MA 9260 of 2016 and MA 9312 of
        2016 (“MA 9259” “MA 9260” and “MA 9312”) were appeals brought by the Public
        Prosecutor against the sentences imposed by the State Court on three individuals
        who have defaulted on their obligations to serve National Service (“NS
        defaulters”). Following the hearing on 25 April 2017, the High Court allowed
        the appeals and enhanced the sentence imposed on each of the defaulters. At the
        time judgment was delivered, the court provided brief reasons for its decision.
        The full written grounds of decision were released today. 
 

2                   
        The respondent in MA 9259, Sakthikanesh s/o
        Chidambaram (“Sakthikanesh”), and the respondent in MA 9260, Vandana Kumar s/o
        Chidambaram (“Vandana”), are brothers. Both were born in Singapore, to a father
        who is an Indian citizen and a Singaporean mother. The brothers’ parents have
        had their matrimonial home in India ever since their marriage, but the mother returned
        to Singapore on each of the two occasions to give birth to them. They were each
        brought back to India soon after birth, where they were raised and educated.  
 
3                   
        When Sakthikanesh attained sixteen-and-a-half-years of age, he was obliged,
        pursuant to provisions in the Enlistment Act (Cap 93, 2001 Rev Ed), to obtain a Valid Exit Permit
        (“VEP”) to leave or remain outside Singapore. He did not obtain a VEP.
        Subsequently, he also failed to register for NS when he was required to do so
        by a NS Registration Notice and a Further Reporting Order (“FRO”) issued to him
        by the Ministry of Defence (“MINDEF”). He only returned to Singapore after completing
        his university studies, and enlisted into NS on 11 September 2014, when he was
        23 years old. During his NS, Sakthikanesh was selected for and entered the Officer
        Cadet School (“OCS”), and received good testimonials from his superiors. 
 

4                   
        Like his brother, Vandana failed to obtain a VEP
        when he attained sixteen-and-a-half
        years of age, and subsequently also failed to register for NS. He only returned
        to Singapore and enlisted into NS when he was 21 years old. While Vandana was not
        selected for OCS, he was chosen to participate in the 2015 National Day Parade
        as a Gunner on display and for an overseas training exercise. He also emerged
        as the best trooper in his section after attaining the top score during an Army
        Training Evaluation in February 2016, and was named Company Soldier of the
        Month of May 2016. Vandana also received good testimonials from his superiors. 
 

5                   
        Sakthikanesh
        was charged for his failure to comply with the FRO over a period of about five
        years and six months. Another charge, for remaining outside Singapore without a
        VEP for a period of about five years and nine months, was taken into
        consideration. Vandana was likewise charged for his failure to comply
        with a FRO over a period of about three years and four months, with another
        charge for remaining outside Singapore without a VEP for a period of about
        three years and 10 months taken into consideration.
 
6                   
        Sakthikanesh
        was sentenced to three weeks’ imprisonment, while Vandana was given a fine of
        $6,000. The district judge who passed their sentences was of the view that they
        should receive sentencing discounts for their performance during NS and also the
        fact that they had not grown up in Singapore and had not enjoyed the benefits
        of Singapore’s social and physical infrastructure. 
 

7                   
        The respondent in MA 9312, Ang Lee Thye (“Ang”), was born in Singapore and
        educated here until he moved with his family to the United States when he was
        14 years of age. He failed to obtain a VEP to remain overseas when he was required
        to do so under the Act, and also failed to comply with Registration Notices
        issued by MINDEF’s Central Manpower Base (“CMPB”). Despite being in contact
        with the CMPB at various points over the years and being advised by the CMPB to
        return to Singapore as soon as possible so as not to prolong his default period,
        Ang only returned to Singapore at the age of 41, beyond the statutory
        age of 40 and when he could no longer fulfil any of his NS obligations. The
        total length of his period of default was about 23.5 years. He was sentenced to
        24 months’ imprisonment, after the district judge took into account mitigating
        factors such as the fact that he had pleaded guilty, voluntarily surrendered
        and had no NS-related antecedents. 
 

The issues 
 

8                   
        The court considered whether exceptional NS
        performance should be regarded as a mitigating factor in the sentencing of NS
        defaulters. It also considered how other factors, such as the length of the
        period of default, an NS defaulter’s degree of substantial connection to
        Singapore, whether he claimed trial or pleaded guilty, and whether he
        voluntarily surrendered or was arrested, could play a part in the determination
        of the appropriate sentence.
 
The court’s grounds of
        decision 
 

9                   
        The court held that the standard of performance
        of an NS defaulter who returned to serve NS should not, as a general rule, be a
        relevant consideration for the purpose of sentencing. This was because
        exceptional NS performance, which happens after
        the conduct constituting the offence, reduces neither the defaulter’s
        culpability nor the harm he had caused by his offence. The culpability of NS
        defaulters lies in the unfair advantage that they gained over their law-abiding
        peers by being able to pursue their personal goals while their peers were
        serving their NS obligations. In cases involving extended periods of defaults,
        the NS defaulters in fact avoided part of or the whole of their NS obligations,
        if they returned at an age where they could no longer serve full-time NS or
        complete their post-ORD reservist obligations in full. They harm the
        operational readiness of the armed forces, and also the morale of fellow
        citizens who had made personal sacrifices to serve their NS obligations when
        they were called upon to do so. This could in turn lead to growing resentment
        and the loss of public support for NS, threatening the ability of our armed
        forces to ensure Singapore’s national security.
 
10               
        Further, allowing an NS defaulter to enjoy a
        discount off his sentence because he performed well when he finally decided to
        serve NS might be seen as, or tantamount to, giving preferential treatment to
        individuals with certain qualities. It might unfairly prejudice NS defaulters
        who are less fit. It could also undermine the sentencing objective of general
        deterrence, as it might send a message to potential defaulters that they could
        defer their NS obligations and try to make up for that later. 
 
11               
        In the determination of the appropriate sentence
        for an NS defaulter, the length of the period of default would, as a general
        rule, be the key consideration. In general, a period of default exceeding two
        years would attract a custodial sentence. This was because a person who had
        defaulted on his NS obligations for two years would only commence serving
        full-time NS when his peers had already completed theirs. This derogated from
        the principle of equity which entailed everyone who is required to serve NS to
        serve at around the same age so that they would all bear similar interruptions
        to their studies or careers at similar stages of their lives. 
 

12               
        The statutory maximum sentence of 36 months’
        imprisonment should be the starting point in the sentencing of NS defaulters
        whose period of default was around 23 years or more, as they would not only
        have evaded the whole of their full-time NS obligations, but also their
        post-ORD reservist obligations. These offenders would constitute the worst
        category of NS defaulters.
 

13               
        In
        between the two ends of the custodial range would be those who, by reason of
        their default, had impaired their ability to serve their NS obligations, either
        in terms of their physical ability or in terms of duration. The sentence to be
        meted out to an NS defaulter should not increase linearly with the length of
        his period of default. Instead, the rate of increase in sentence should be
        amplified with longer periods of default, to reflect the decline in a person’s
        physical fitness with age (and hence his ability to serve NS especially in a
        combat vocation), and to create a progressive disincentive for NS defaulters to
        delay their return to resolve their offences. In addition, there should be a
        spike in the sentence to be meted out to an NS defaulter once his period of
        default crosses the 10-year mark, since he would unlikely be able to serve his
        post-ORD reservist obligations in full before he reaches the statutory age of
        40.
 

14               
        The following sentencing benchmarks, based on
        the length of the period of default, were laid down by the court as appropriate
        starting points in determining the sentence for an NS defaulter: 
 




Peg


Length of
                    Period of Default


Starting Point
                    for Sentence (Imprisonment Term) 




1


2 to 6 years


2 to 4 months




2


7 to 10 years


5 to 8 months 




3


11 to 16 years


14 to 22 months




4


17 to 23 (or more) years


24 to 36 months




 
15               
        As for the other factors, the court held that,
        in sentencing NS defaulters: 
 
(a)               
        The sentence to be meted out should not be
        calibrated based on whether an NS defaulter has a substantial connection to
        Singapore, or the amount of benefits he has enjoyed as a Singapore citizen. Any
        other view would severely undermine the principle of universality and equity by
        differentiating between classes of Singapore citizenship, when in truth, no
        such differentiation exists. The determination of whether a male Singaporean
        has a substantial connection to Singapore and so should be required to serve NS
        was a matter with policy implications that was within the prerogative of
        MINDEF. As long as MINDEF had issued the enlistment papers to a male
        Singaporean, that person would need to serve NS and he would be liable for an
        offence under the Act if he failed to comply. 
 
(b)               
        Voluntary surrender could be a mitigating
        factor, as it could be evidence of remorse. There was also public interest in
        encouraging NS defaulters to surrender early so that they could still serve their
        NS obligations. An early surrender would generally attract greater mitigating
        value than a surrender later in the day. 

(c)    A
        plea of guilt would, in most cases, attract either very limited or no
        mitigating value at all. The nature of NS default offences was such that these
        offences could easily be proved. Hence, a person accused of defaulting on his
        NS obligations would, in reality, have very little choice but to plead guilty
        in the face of undisputed evidence against him, such that his plea of guilt
        should not be said to have been motivated by sincere remorse. Generally, in
        cases involving NS defaulters who voluntarily surrendered and then pleaded
        guilty, the mitigating value of his voluntary surrender and plea of guilt should
        be considered holistically, with a single discount being applied. This was
        because there was considerable overlap in their mitigating value – both were
        mitigating insofar as they reveal contrition on the NS defaulter's part.
        Treating them as distinct mitigating factors would present a real risk of
        double-counting and excessive weight being placed on them.
 
16               
        Having regard to Sakthikanesh’s period of
        default, which was about five years and six months, the starting point in the
        determination of his sentence was around 14 weeks’ imprisonment. As he had
        voluntarily surrendered and pleaded guilty, the court decided that an
        imprisonment term of 10 weeks was appropriate. 
 
17               
        As for Vandana, the starting point in the
        determination of his sentence, based on the length of his period of default
        which was about three years and four months, was around 10 weeks’ imprisonment.
        As he had voluntarily surrendered and pleaded guilty, the court decided to
        sentence him to seven weeks’ imprisonment. 
 

18               
        For Ang, whose period of default was 23.5 years,
        the starting point in the determination of his sentence was 36 months’
        imprisonment. While there was evidence that suggested that he might have
        deliberately timed his return to Singapore so that he would not have to serve
        any of his NS obligations, the court decided that some credit should,
        nevertheless, still be given to his voluntary surrender and plea of guilt. Ang was
        given an aggregate sentence of 33 months’ imprisonment.
 


This summary is provided to
        assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
        substitute for the reasons of the Court.



