

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
22 January 2018
Case summary
Audi Construction Pte Ltd v Kian Hiap
Constructions Pte Ltd
Civil Appeal No 136 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Decision of the Court of Appeal
(delivered by Justice Steven Chong):
Introduction
1             
This
appeal is about serving and responding to payment claims under the Building and
Construction Industry Security of Payment Act (Cap 30B, 2006 Rev Ed) (the
“Act”). The Act establishes a regime intended to ensure that contractors and
subcontractors receive timely payment for work done and materials supplied. Under
that regime, service by a claimant of a payment claim on a respondent initiates
a process of dispute resolution governed by the Act which is intended to enable
the claimant properly to recover what he is owed.
Background
2             
In
this case, the parties’ contract stipulated that the date for serving payment
claims was to be the 20th day of each month. The appellant in November 2016
realising that the 20th day of that month was a Sunday and that the
respondent’s office would be closed that day decided to serve a payment claim
on the respondent two days earlier, on Friday, 18 November 2016. But the appellant
dated the payment claim 20 November 2016. The respondent chose not to file a
payment response. The matter proceeded to adjudication under the Act, and the adjudicator
determined that appellant was to be awarded the sum it had claimed. ([6]–[7])
3             
The
appellant then applied to the High Court to enforce that award and the
respondent filed an opposing application to set it aside. The High Court allowed
the respondent’s application. It held that the parties’ contract provided that payment
claims could be served only on, and not by, the 20th day of each month, and so
the appellant had invalidly served the payment claim upon which the
adjudication proceed. That was a breach of s 10(2)(a) of the Act, which required service of payment claims to be
effected in accordance with the parties’ contract, and therefore the
adjudication determination had to be set aside. The appellant appealed this decision.
([8]–[11])
Decision on appeal
4             
The
Court of Appeal allowed the appellant’s appeal on 13 November 2017. It has now
released grounds to explain its decision.
5             
The
Court held that on the facts, the appellant had validly served the payment
claim because it had a good reason to serve it before the contractually
stipulated date for service, and because its dating the claim 20 November 2016
would have left no doubt in the respondent’s mind that it had intended service
to be effected on that date. The appellant had therefore acted in compliance
with the parties’ contract, and there was no breach of s 10(2)(a) of the Act. ([26]–[28])
6             
The
Court observed it would also have been proper for the appellant to have served
the payment claim on 21 November 2016. This was because of the operation of s
50(b) read with s 50(c) of the Interpretation Act (Cap 1,
2002 Rev Ed), which provides that if a statutory obligation is to be performed
on an excluded day – which includes Sundays and public holidays – that
obligation may be performed on the next day. These provisions would have
applied here because the obligation under s 10(2)(a) of the Act to effect service of a payment claim in accordance
with the parties’ contract is a statutory obligation. ([35]–[36])
7             
The
Court went on to say that even if the payment claim had been invalidly served,
the respondent was not entitled to make that objection. This was because he had
waived his right to do so or was estopped from doing so.
8             
In
this regard, the Court first held that adjudicators under the Act have the
power to decide matters which go towards their jurisdiction. Such matters, it
is well-established, comprise whether certain cardinal provisions of the Act (known
as mandatory provisions) have been complied with and whether the adjudicator’s
appointment was proper. The Court’s earlier decision in Grouteam Pte Ltd v UES
Holdings Pte [2016] 5 SLR 1011 (“Grouteam”)
established that s 10(2)(a) of the
Act was a mandatory provision, and the Court in the present appeal affirmed its
observation in Grouteam that an
adjudicator was entitled to decide whether that provision had been complied
with. In so deciding, the Court entrenched its departure from reasoning to the
opposite effect adopted in its earlier decision in Lee Wee Lick Terence (alias Li Weili Terence) v Chua Say Eng (formerly
trading as Weng Fatt Construction Engineering) and another appeal)
[2013] 1 SLR 401 (“Chua Say Eng”). ([45]–[46])
9             
It
followed from this premise that a party in the respondent’s position would have
been entitled to object before an adjudicator to the validity of a payment
claim’s service, given that the adjudicator would have been entitled to rule on
such an objection. A number of decisions of the High Court which had adopted
reasoning to the contrary, following Chua
Say Eng, were therefore overruled. More importantly, a respondent’s entitlement
to raise such an objection was held to be a right which it may waive or be
estopped from exercising by virtue of its failing to raise the objection at the
appropriate time. Accordingly, the question was when it may be taken to have
done so. ([51], [63])
10          
Both
waiver and estoppel, the Court held, requires an unequivocal representation by
a party of his decision not to exercise an available right. Silence will not
normally amount to an unequivocal representation unless there is a duty to
speak. In the context of the Act, there is a duty on the part of a respondent
to include in the payment response any jurisdictional objection which it wishes
to rely on. That is because by s 15(3)(a)
of the Act, the issues which may be raised before an adjudicator are restricted
to those issues which are stated in the payment response. This is in line with
the policy of the Act to ensure timely payments between contractors because,
among other things, it encourages a respondent to raise any jurisdictional
objection it may have at the earliest opportunity so that the claimant has the
chance to rectify the problem, eg by effecting
proper service of a payment claim. ([57],
[66] and [68])
11          
In
the present case, the respondent failed to file a payment response, and that
constituted an unequivocal representation that he would not raise any objection
to the payment claim. The appellant relied on that representation by omitting
to re-file a payment claim. As a result, the respondent was estopped from
raising any objection to the payment claim’s validity. ([71])
This summary is provided to assist in
the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be
a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square
brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
