
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 January 2023Case summaryVim Engineering Pte Ltd v Deluge Fire Protection (S.E.A) Pte Ltd [2023] SGHC(A) 2Civil Appeal No 29 of 2021 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Quentin Loh):Outcome: The AD allows the appeal against part of the decision of the General Division of the High Court to dismiss the appellant’s claim for variation works and to allow the respondent’s claim for back-charges.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Every contract has to be construed on its particular terms and where necessary within the context in which it was entered into. Unless it is stated that strict compliance with the contract is required failing which a variation claim will fail, failure to comply with a contractual clause may not amount to an absolute bar against a right to claim for payment of the variation: at [33] to [35]. •  The requirement for notice to be given in relation to defects clauses gives the contractor an opportunity to cure or remedy the defect. This requirement of notification is based on the fact that the contractor is usually in the best position to carry out any remedial work at a lower cost. Failure to comply with a stipulation to provide notice in a defects clause may preclude an employer from relying on the defects clause as against the contractor, although the employer’s right to damages in respect of the cost of repairs is not extinguished. Where the employer does not provide the contractor with a contractual opportunity to rectify defects during the defect liability period, the employer can still recover the cost of repairing the defects, but the sum that the employer can recover may be limited to how much it would have cost the contractor to rectify the defects: at [80] to [82]. 1 This was the appeal of Vim Engineering Pte Ltd (“Vim”) against the decision of a judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”) for rejecting its claims and allowing part of the counterclaim of Deluge Fire Protection (S.E.A.) Pte Ltd (“Deluge”). Background to the appeal2 In around July 2015, Samsung C&T Corporation (“Samsung”) had subcontracted the plumbing, sanitary and gas works for a construction project to Deluge. Due to delays in Deluge’s work, Deluge engaged Vim sometime in March or April 2016, to carry out certain plumbing and sanitary works for the sum of $1.75m. This agreement was set out in a subcontract (“the Subcontract”), which made reference to a purchase order (“the Purchase Order”), a set of tender clarifications (“Tender Clarifications”) and a quotation (“the Quotation”). 3 On 20 October 2017, the temporary occupation permit (“TOP”) for the construction project was obtained. On 5 February 2018, Vim left the project site and did not do further work there. On 20 October 2018, the defects liability period (“DLP”), which ran for 12 months from the date the TOP was obtained, expired. 4 Vim subsequently brought a suit against Deluge for payment of: (a) $450,550.02 as the balance amount payable for the main works under the Subcontract (“main works”); and (b) $697,130.58 for variation works (“variation works”). Deluge accepted that it owed Vim an even greater balance amount for the main works than that sought by Vim, but denied liability for all the variation works claims. Deluge also counterclaimed for: (a) costs of $7,200 incurred in completing the remaining main works and costs of $105,300 for rectifying defects (“rectification works”); and (c) a total of $870,507.09 that it was purportedly entitled to back-charge the appellant under the Subcontract (“back-charges”).5 The Judge held that Deluge had paid Vim a total of $1,288,624.80, leaving $453,912.94 due to Vim in respect of the main works. However, the Judge rejected Vim’s variation claims on the basis that, among other things, the Subcontract provided that variation works could only be carried out with written instructions from Deluge’s project manager. 6 As for Deluge’s counterclaims, the Judge held that Deluge was entitled to the sums of $7,200 and $105,300 for rectification works (this was later determined to be $105,037.74). The Judge also allowed Deluge’s counterclaim for back-charges amounting to $858,604.36. After offsetting the sums due to Vim, the Judge found that a net sum of $509,729.16 was to be paid by Vim to Deluge.7 On appeal, Vim argues that the Judge should not have rejected its variation claims because, inter alia, the variation works had been approved by Deluge’s staff and the documentary bases for its claims were well-founded. As for Deluge’s counterclaims for rectification works and back-charges, Vim argues that these should have been disallowed because, inter alia, Deluge had not given it the requisite notice of the charges incurred and that there was no evidential foundation for Deluge’s claims. The court’s decision on appeal8 In general, to claim for work as a variation under a contract, the claimant needs to establish that (a) the work is an “extra”; (b) there is an express or implied promise to pay for the work; (c) the work was instructed by a person with authority to vary the contract; and (d) any condition precedent to payment has been fulfilled: at [29]. 9 Every contract has to be construed on its particular terms and where necessary within the context in which it was entered into. Unless it is stated that strict compliance with the contract is required failing which a variation claim will fail, failure to comply with a contractual clause may not amount to an absolute bar against a right to claim for payment of the variation: at [33] to [35]. 10 In the present case, cl 16 of the Subcontract required written instructions from Deluge’s project manager in order for variation works to be carried out. However, cl 16 does not state that in the absence of written instructions Vim would forfeit payment. It was therefore open to Vim to show that compliance with cl 16 had been waived by Deluge: [30] to [35].  11 When a party unequivocally chooses not to exercise one of two inconsistent rights, and he is aware of the circumstances giving rise to the existence of that right, he would be deemed as having elected to waive that right: at [43].12 Deluge’s representatives had signed on the majority of the variation work claims by Vim, and written comments on the forms that the claims would be subject to Samsung’s approval, this was a clear indication that Deluge was waiving compliance with having to obtain written instruction under cl 16 of the Subcontract to carry out variation works. In addition, it was not Deluge’s contention at trial that Samsung had denied Vim’s variation works claims: at [45]. 13 As Deluge had not pleaded a want of authority on the part of its representatives who had signed Vim’s variation works claims, it could not raise the argument that they had no authority to waive compliance with the written instruction requirement in cl 16:  at [46] to [53]. 14 As Deluge does not contest that the variation works had been completed by Vim the evidential burden was on Deluge to show how the works completed come within the scope of main works under the Subcontract. The scope of main works as set out in the Subcontract, the Tender Clarifications and the Quotation, were limited to the works enumerated in the Quotation which had set out with great particularity the works Vim had agreed with Deluge to carry out. In this regard, Deluge’s conduct indicated that it did not regard the variations works to be main works: at [58] to [63].  15 As Vim’s variation claims had been adequately substantiated, the appeal against the Judge’s decision to reject its variation claims in the sum of $388,428 was allowed: at [67]. 16 Deluge’s counterclaim against Vim for rectification works for $105,037.74 was not supported by the documentary or other evidence save for a bare assertion. As Deluge has not made out its claim in respect of the rectification works, Vim’s appeal on this issue was allowed: at [68] to [72]. 17 The requirement for notice to be given in relation to defects clauses gives the contractor an opportunity to cure or remedy the defect. This requirement of notification is based on the fact that  based on the fact that the contractor is usually in the best position to carry out any remedial work at a lower cost. Failure to comply with a stipulation to provide notice in a defects clause may preclude an employer from relying on the defects clause as against the contractor, although the employer’s right to damages in respect of the cost of repairs is not extinguished. Where the employer does not provide the contractor with a contractual opportunity to rectify defects during the defect liability period, the employer can still recover the cost of repairing the defects, but the sum that the employer can recover may be limited to how much it would have cost the contractor to rectify the defects: at [80] to [82]. 18 Under cl 19 of the Subcontract, Deluge was required to first notify Vim of the defective work, should Vim  indicate its unwillingness to remedy the defects or does not do so within a reasonable time, Deluge could then proceed to give written notice of its intention to perform or secure performance of the remedial work. After which, Deluge would notify Vim of any work performed, and has the contractual right to claim such amounts from Vim: at [84] to [87]. 19 There was some evidence to show that the requirement of written notice had been satisfied as regards the most substantial back-charges. While some of the back-charges were not supported by any form of notification from Deluge to Vim, Vim did not argue that had it been informed of the back-charges that it would have performed those works more cost-effectively. Deluge’s failure to comply with cl 19 did not materially affect its claims: at [91] to [98]. 20 In order to establish Vim’s liability for the back-charges, the burden of proof was on Deluge to provide sufficient evidence to establish its claim for the back-charges imposed on Vim. In order to do so, Deluge had to first be able to provide sufficient evidence to show that back-charges were an expense that had actually been incurred by it, that the scope of the back-charge fell within the terms of the Subcontract or the Tender Clarifications, and that the evidence was sufficient to show that the claimed loss had been caused solely by Vim. Should all the preceding requirements be met, the burden then shifted to Vim to provide evidence to rebut Deluge’s case, failing which liability would be imposed on Vim: at [101] to [104]. 21 The Judge’s approach to the issue of liability was too generalised, had failed to consider the fact that Deluge’s claim lacked the requisite particulars, and had placed reliance on Vim’s lack of manpower which did not adequately address the issue of whether Vim was the sole cause of these delays and defects. The proper approach was not to rely on a generalised level of abstraction, rather recourse must be had to the details with regard to each back-charge alleged by Deluge and to every defence raised by Vim in defence: at [106] to [116].22 Having considered all of the evidence, Deluge was only able to show that a limited number of the back-charges were attributable to Vim. Accordingly, Deluge’s entitlement to the back-charges was reduced to the sum of $41,788.80. Setting-off the claims (inclusive of Vim’s claim below for main works that was not the subject of appeal) against the counterclaims, Deluge was liable to Vim for a net sum of $453,912.94 (main works) + $388,428 (variation works) – $41,788.80 (back-charges) = $800,552.14: at [195] to [197]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
