
 
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE
9 May
2017 

Media
Summary
TUC v TUD 
District
Court Appeal No 158 of 2016 

 

 
Background to the appeal 
1                   
This appeal arose from an
application by the appellant, the father, under s 8 of the International
Child Abduction Act (Cap 143C) (“the ICAA”) for an order that his two
children be returned from Singapore to San Francisco, California, USA. The
respondent in this appeal was the children’s mother, with whom the children
presently reside. 
2                   
The father, the mother, and
their two children are US citizens. The father and the mother were married in
India in 2003 and registered their marriage in California in 2004. Their
marriage was a strained one even before their two children were born in 2011
and 2014 respectively. 
3                   
In July 2015, the mother started
exploring career opportunities in Singapore, which is where her parents and
extended family live. In late 2015, the father, the mother, and the children came
to Singapore for a holiday (they arrived on different dates in October and
November). The plan at that time was to return to San Francisco, California on
9 January 2016. However, the father had a disagreement with the mother’s
parents and returned to San Francisco alone on 6 December 2015. 
4                   
While on vacation in Singapore,
the mother pursued and secured a one-year consultancy contract with a private
equity firm which was the main investor in a financial technology start-up in
the region. The arrangement was for her to be employed by a company of which
her uncle was a director; that company would in turn contract with the private
equity firm for her to provide it with consultancy services. Between 12 and 25 December
2015, the father and the mother exchanged a number of emails in which the
possibility of a long-term move to Singapore was discussed. 
5                   
After the private equity firm
sent the mother the consultancy contract on 7 January 2016, the father and
the mother made plans to relocate to Singapore. The mother went back to
California to serve out her two-week notice period with her US employer and
returned to Singapore on 2 February 2016. The father obtained permission
from his US company to work remotely and came to Singapore on 20 February
2016. The mother’s consultancy contract commenced on 15 February 2016, but
the private equity firm terminated it on 14 April 2016. The mother
nonetheless continued to work in Singapore for her uncle’s company.
6                   
There was no easing of the
marital tensions between the father and the mother during their stay in
Singapore. On 2 June 2016, the mother told the father that they should
file for divorce, and on 8 July 2016, she filed for divorce in California.
In the meantime, the father sought legal advice on how to ensure the return of
the children to the USA. He returned to the USA on 3 July 2016, and on 20 July
2016, he filed an application in the Family Justice Courts for the return of
the children.
The legal issues 
7                   
According to s 8 of the
ICAA, a person who claims that a child has been wrongfully retained in
Singapore in breach of that person’s rights of custody under the law of a Contracting
State to the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
(“the Hague Convention”) may apply for an order that the child be returned. The
USA, like Singapore, is a Contracting State to the Hague Convention. The
provisions of the Hague Convention, as set out in the Schedule to the ICAA,
have the force of law in Singapore.
8                   
According to Article 3 of
the Hague Convention, the retention of a child is wrongful if it is in breach
of the rights of custody attributed to a person under the law of the country in
which the child was habitually resident immediately before the retention. It
was not disputed that the father had rights of custody under US law and that
the retention of the children in Singapore would be in breach of those rights,
and therefore wrongful, if they were indeed habitually resident in the USA. On
the other hand, if the children were habitually resident in Singapore, their
retention here would not be in breach of any rights of custody under Singapore
law. 
9                   
The father’s application was brought
on the basis that the children had been wrongfully retained in Singapore by the
mother in breach of his rights of custody under US law. The mother opposed the
application on two grounds. First, she argued that her retention of the
children in Singapore was not wrongful because the children were no longer
habitually resident in the USA at the date of their retention here in the face
of the father’s request for them to be returned to the USA; instead, they were
habitually resident in Singapore. Second, she relied on an exception in Article 13
of the Hague Convention, which provides that even if a child has been
wrongfully retained, a court is not bound to order the return of the child if,
among other things, the parent making the application had consented to the
child’s retention. The father denied that he had consented to the children’s
retention in Singapore. He also argued in the alternative that the mother had deceived
him into consenting. 
10               
In the court below, the
District Judge found that the father had consented to the family relocating to
Singapore for a period of two years, and that the father had failed to prove
that he had been deceived into consenting. The District Judge therefore
dismissed the father’s application. The father then filed the present appeal
against the District Judge’s decision. 
11               
The two issues on appeal were whether
the habitual residence of the children immediately before their retention in
Singapore was the USA or Singapore; and second, if the answer was that their
habitual residence remained the USA, whether the father consented to their
retention in Singapore. 
The court’s decision
12               
On the first issue, the court found
that the habitual residence of the children remained the USA. 
13               
The court took the date of
wrongful retention to be 2 June 2016, when the mother told the father that
she would be filing for divorce. The court noted that where the parents agreed
that a child could be brought to another country for an agreed period of time, the
child would, in the usual case, be wrongfully retained if he or she were not
returned at the end of the period. However, there might also be wrongful
retention even before the expiry of the period if the parent who brought the
child away intimated to the other parent that the child would not be returned
at the end of that period. This could be deduced from the conduct of the
parties if it was clear that the conduct was no longer consistent with the
terms of the agreement which formed the basis of the child’s consensual removal
in the first place. 
14               
In the court’s view, that was
the position in this case. In agreeing to relocate to Singapore, the father’s
intention had been to salvage the marriage and keep his family together. He
envisioned a stay of at least six months. The family’s stay commenced in
February 2016, and the earliest time the agreed period of stay would have
expired would have been in August 2016. Nonetheless, even before that, the
Mother indicated her intention to file for divorce on 2 June 2016. Her
conduct showed that she wanted the children to continue living in Singapore and
did not contemplate their returning to the USA. This meant that the basis on
which the Father had agreed to the children’s consensual removal to Singapore –
to salvage the marriage and to keep the family together – no longer existed. Hence,
the wrongful retention of the children in Singapore occurred on 2 June
2016. The question then was whether the habitual residence of the children
immediately before that date was the USA or Singapore. 
15               
The court found that the
habitual residence of the children was the USA. The test for habitual residence
was a question of fact requiring a court to consider a range of factors which
clustered around two main concerns: the degree to which the child was settled
or integrated into a country, and the intention of the parents as to whether
the child was to reside in that country. In the case of very young children, it
would be the intentions of their parents in relocating them and the objective
factors of the case which would be significant in determining whether their
habitual residence had changed. 
16               
With regard to the parents’
intentions in this case, the court found that there was no shared intention on
the part of the father and the mother to relocate to Singapore. They each viewed
the move to Singapore differently. The only reason the father agreed to move
was to attempt to rehabilitate the marriage and to be with the children while
doing so. He saw the move as a temporary arrangement and contemplated that the
family would return to the USA eventually. The mother moved here to pursue her
career opportunities and to be close to her family. She was seemingly
determined to remain in Singapore for the foreseeable future. 
17               
Furthermore, the objective
circumstances did not support a finding that the habitual residence of the
children had changed. The court noted in particular that the length of the
children’s stay here was not significant. The effective period of the
children’s relocation, for the purposes of assessing habitual residence, was
four months – from February 2016, when what was originally envisaged to be a
family holiday became a relocation, to 2 June 2016. The court was referred
to cases where the habitual residence of children was found to have changed in
periods of similar duration, but held that those cases could be distinguished
because there, there was a joint intention on the part of the parents to
relocate. In this case, the absence of such a joint intention to relocate,
coupled with the brief duration of the children’s stay in Singapore, led the
court to conclude that the habitual residence of the children remained the USA immediately
before 2 June 2016, the date of their wrongful retention. 
18               
On the second issue, the court
found that the father did not consent to the retention of the children in
Singapore after 2 June 2016. The court noted that in finding that the
father had consented to the children’s relocation to Singapore, the District
Judge had relied on a number of statements by the father to the effect that the
family was moving to Singapore for two years, along with conduct consistent
with those statements. However, in the court’s view, what was important was not
the length of the move which the father consented to, but why he did so. Since
the father agreed to the move as part of an attempted reconciliation with the
mother and to keep his family together, the crucial question was whether he
consented to the children remaining in Singapore even if he and the mother were
to be divorced. The court found that he did not. The father’s consent to
relocate here was not unconditional, and the basis of his consent no longer existed
on 2 June 2016 once the mother indicated her wish to file for divorce. In
view of this finding, the court considered it unnecessary to determine whether the
father had been deceived into consenting. 
19               
In the circumstances, the court
allowed the appeal and ordered that the children be returned to San Francisco,
California, USA within 30 days of the date of the judgment.
 
This summary is provided to assist in the
understanding of the court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute
for the reasons of the court.

 

