
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 January 2023Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Syn Kok Kay [2023] SGHC 7Court of Three Judges – Originating Application No 2 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):Outcome: C3J orders that solicitor who overcharged client and did not comply with a court-order is to be suspended for three years and nine months. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In evaluating the gravity of the overcharging, the court would consider (a) the extent of the overcharging; (b) the intention of the solicitor during the period of overcharging; (c) the solicitor’s conduct following the overcharging; and (d) other generally aggravating and mitigating offender-specific factors: at [38]. •  In matters concerning non-compliance with a court order, the court would consider the degree of disrespect to the court and/or prejudice to any party the order was meant to benefit, as well as any other pertinent aspects of the non-compliance: at [54]. •  When a solicitor was declared a bankrupt, his practising certificate ceased to be in force, and so long as he did not discharge his bankruptcy he could not resume practice. This meant that any period of suspension running in parallel to such an inability to practise might be ineffective in achieving the aims of disciplinary sanctions. The most appropriate adjustment to make would be to order the suspension to commence upon the discharge of the bankruptcy: at [61] to [63].Background to the application and material facts 1 Mr Syn Kok Kay (the “respondent”) was a solicitor of 29 years’ standing. At all material times, he was the sole proprietor of Patrick Chin Syn & Co.2 For services rendered to a client, JWR Pte Ltd (“JWR”), the respondent charged $1,340,000 in professional fees from December 2015 to April 2019. JWR paid these fees in full, but went on to seek taxation of the billed amount. The respondent was ordered to deliver his bill of costs by 7 November 2019, but did so only on 18 November 2020. The respondent’s professional fees were eventually taxed down to $288,000. He did not return the difference of $1,052,000 to JWR, and was adjudged bankrupt following a bankruptcy application brought by JWR. At the time of the hearing, he remained an undischarged bankrupt.3 The Law Society of Singapore brought charges against the respondent in respect of the respondent’s overcharging (the “First Charge”) and his failure to comply with the court-ordered timeline for the delivery of his bill of costs (the “Second Charge”). The disciplinary tribunal found that there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action. The Law Society of Singapore then applied for the respondent to be sanctioned under s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed). DecisionThe First Charge4 The respondent could not have charged what he did in good faith and had therefore overcharged JWR within the meaning of overcharging under r 17(8) of the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 (the “PCR 2015”): at [25].5 Not every instance of overcharging would result in due cause for disciplinary action. In evaluating the gravity of the overcharging, the court would consider: (a) the extent of the overcharging; (b) the intention of the solicitor during the period of overcharging; (c) the solicitor’s conduct following the overcharging; and (d) other generally aggravating and mitigating offender-specific factors: at [26] and [38]. 6 In the present case, the extent of the overcharging was egregious and gave rise to a strong inference of unethical behaviour. The respondent’s defence that he had genuinely believed that the fees charged had been reasonable was not mitigating. In any event it appeared that, in truth, he had been intentionally and unethically taking advantage of JWR. His failure to make restitution to JWR was aggravating, as was his disposal of certain assets, which appeared to have been done with the intent of concealing those assets from his creditors, including JWR. Finally, the respondent’s seniority in the legal profession and the presence of a relevant antecedent for failure to adhere to an agreed fee cap were both aggravating as well: at [40] to [45].7 There was therefore due cause for disciplinary action against the respondent in respect of the First Charge. Bearing in mind the factors above, and that the respondent’s misconduct bordered on dishonesty, the appropriate sanction was a suspension of three years. Notably, the precedents concerning overcharging similarly redolent of dishonesty had been too lenient: at [46], [49], [51] and [52].The Second Charge8 In matters concerning non-compliance with a court order, the court would consider the degree of disrespect to the court and/or prejudice to any party the order was meant to benefit, as well as any other pertinent aspects of the non-compliance: at [54].9 In the context of taxation proceedings, it was crucial for a solicitor to present his bills of costs timeously; where this was not possible, an immediate explanation was expected as a matter of courtesy and professional responsibility. In the present case, the fact that the respondent had not produced such an explanation to JWR for his delay in presenting his bills of costs strongly suggested that he had been intentionally putting off JWR. This delay embodied a disservice to and a disrespect of his client inimical to both the fundamental compact between solicitor and client and the honourable manner in which solicitors are required to conduct themselves: at [56] and [57].10 There was therefore due cause for disciplinary action against the respondent in respect of the Second Charge, and the appropriate sanction was a suspension of nine months: at [58].The effect of the respondent’s undischarged bankruptcy on the sanction11 When a solicitor was declared a bankrupt, his practising certificate ceased to be in force, and so long as he did not discharge his bankruptcy he could not resume practice. This meant that any period of suspension running in parallel to such an inability to practise might be ineffective in achieving the aims of disciplinary sanctions. The most appropriate adjustment to make would be to order the suspension to commence upon the discharge of the bankruptcy: at [61] to [63].12 The respondent was therefore ordered to be suspended for three years and nine months, with the period of suspension to commence from the discharge of his bankruptcy: at [65].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
