
 
SUPREME COURT SINGAPORE
 
9
May 2017
Media
Summary
Ramachandran Jayakumar and another v Woo Hon Wai and
others 
and another matter
Civil
Appeal No 11 of 2017 and Summons No 39 of 2017 
Decision
of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ)
 
Background
to the appeal
1          This was an appeal
against the High Court’s decision to approve the application for the collective
sale of a development known as Shunfu Ville (“the Property”). The appellants were
the subsidiary proprietors of the Property who opposed the collective sale. The
first, second and third respondents were members of the collective sale
committee (“CSC”) in conduct of the transaction. The central question was
whether the collective sale of the Property should be allowed to proceed. The two
issues which determined this question were: (a) whether the transaction was in
good faith taking into account the sale price of the Property; and (b) whether
the CSC acted ultra vires in making
the collective sale application.  
Facts
2          The Property is a
32-year-old development. Since 2014, it has experienced a deficit in its
operating budget due to various maintenance issues. These remain a live concern
today as the buildings continue to deteriorate with age.
3          In 2013, the CSC was
formed to explore the possibility of a collective sale of the Property. On 12
July 2014, a collective sale agreement (“the CSA”) was presented to the
subsidiary proprietors of the Property and the first signature to the CSA was
obtained on the same day. Based on the requirements prescribed under the Land
Titles (Strata) Act (Cap 158, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LTSA”), the CSC had a maximum
period of approximately 24 months to complete the entire collective sale
process, during which a number of milestones had to be met. First, the CSC had
to obtain the consent of subsidiary proprietors who together held 80% of the
share values as well as of the total area of all the lots within 12 months from
the date the first signature to the CSA was acquired, and execute the CSA among
them by that time. In this case, the statutory threshold of consents had to be
met by 11 July 2015. Second, the collective sale must be launched by way of
public tender, although a sale may be concluded by private treaty within ten
weeks from the close of the public tender. Third, the CSC had to bring the
collective sale application to the Board for approval within 12 months from the
date the CSA had been executed by the requisite majority of subsidiary
proprietors.
4          The statutory
threshold of consents required from the subsidiary proprietors was crossed on
11 July 2015 itself. The reserve price at which the subsidiary proprietors
consented to the Property being sold was $688m. With this, the CSC proceeded to
launch a public tender. Although no formal bids were received, a number of
developers submitted expressions of interest. One of these was the Qingjian
group of companies (“Qingjian”) which, subsequent to negotiations with the CSC,
agreed to offer $638m for the Property. None of the other developers were
prepared to match that price.   
5          In any event, the
CSC had already begun efforts to secure a fresh mandate from the subsidiary
proprietors at a revised reserve price of $638m, and supplementary agreements
were prepared in accordance with the terms of the CSA in order to effect this.
While efforts to obtain the requisite consents were ongoing, the CSC proceeded
to launch a second public tender but this too was at the initial reserve price
of $688m. This again failed to attract any formal bids. 
6          Within the ten weeks
from the close of the second public tender and after the subsidiary
proprietors’ consents required to effect the sale at $638m were finally
obtained, the CSC entered into a private contract with Qingjian to sell the
Property at that price. This was followed by the CSC’s application to the Strata
Titles Board (“the Board”) for a collective sale order on 8 July 2016, with
only a few days to spare before the statutorily imposed deadline. In other
words, it appeared that the CSC had met the timelines prescribed under the LTSA
at each stage, but only just. 
7          Following the CSC’s
application to the Board, a number of dissenting subsidiary proprietors proceeded
to lodge objections to the collective sale. The CSC eventually succeeded in
having the collective sale application approved by the High Court, and the
subsidiary proprietors appealed against the decision made. 
Judgment
8          The Court of Appeal
dismissed the appeal. The appellants’ allegation that the transaction was not
in good faith was not established on the facts, and the claim that the CSC had
acted ultra vires in making the
collective sale application was not made out. 
Reasons for the judgment
9          In determining
whether the transaction was in good faith, the Court emphasised that the entire
circumstances of the transaction, taking into account the factors enunciated in
the case of Ng Eng Ghee and others v
Mamata Kapildev Dave and others (Horizon Partners Pte Ltd, intervener) and
another appeal [2009] 3 SLR(R) 109, must be appraised in the round. Absent
any reason for thinking that members of a collective sale committee were
actuated by any improper motives or any conflict of interest, and absent clear
evidence that the transaction was tainted by unfairness towards some subsidiary
proprietors, in particular the dissenting subsidiary proprietors, or by some
deficit in the transaction, the transaction would less likely be refused
approval. In addition, the question of whether the “best price” had been
obtained was more appropriately framed in terms of whether the price obtained was
appropriate in the circumstances. In
this connection, whether the price was appropriate always entailed a
fact-sensitive inquiry. Finally, a party seeking to make the argument that the
price obtained was not an appropriate one for the purpose of letting the sale
proceed should particularise the steps that should have been but were not taken
and explain how the taking of those steps would have realised a better price. 

10        Given the particular
circumstances of this case, although the facts indicated that the CSC was in
somewhat of a rush, there was nothing to suggest an absence of good faith or
impropriety in the transaction. The appellants had also not led any evidence to
show that the price at which the CSC sought to conclude the sale with Qingjian
was inappropriate in the prevailing market conditions or, for that matter, in
the reasonably foreseeable future. There did not appear to be any other
tangible interest in the Property from any other developers and there was no
evidence to suggest that the price of $638m reflected an undervalue. Failing to
commit to Qingjian not only did not assure that a better offer would come
along, but could also have resulted in the loss of Qingjian’s offer.
11        As for whether the
respondents had acted ultra vires in
making the collective sale application, the appellants argued that the wording
of s 84A(1) read with paras 1 and 2 of the First Schedule to the LTSA
suggested that the group of subsidiary proprietors who made the application for
collective sale must come from the very same group of subsidiary proprietors
who had signed the CSA by 11 July 2015. The Court acknowledged that this was,
at least in general, how the collective sale process would logically proceed.
An interpretation to the contrary would also give rise to a difficulty where
one or more subsidiary proprietors, whose consent was essential to meet the
required 80% thresholds under the LTSA agreed to enter into a collective sale
at a certain price only to find that a year later, a differently constituted
group of subsidiary proprietors then applied for approval of a collective sale
at a different price and for that matter on terms which were different in other
respects as well. 

12        All this would have
led to the disapproval of the collective sale in this case but for the fact
that the CSA itself contained a contractual provision that permitted each of
these developments to take place. Where this very eventuality was contractually
provided for, there was no basis for holding that such an arrangement would
violate, offend or be otherwise contrary to the scheme envisaged by the
provisions of the LTSA. In all other respects, the pre-conditions for an
application to the Board had been met and the Court was therefore satisfied
that the respondents had not acted ultra
vires in making the collective sale application under the LTSA. 
 

This summary is provided to
assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a
substitute for the reasons of the Court.

