
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE6 January 2023Case SummaryAnupam Mittal v Westbridge Ventures II Investment Holdings [2023] SGCA 1Civil Appeal No. 64 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: The Court of Appeal dismissed Mr Anupam Mittal’s appeal in respect of HC/OS 242/2021. It held that the arbitrability of a dispute is, in the first instance, determined by the law that governs the arbitration agreement. On the facts, this was Singapore law. It affirmed the High Court Judge (“the Judge”)’s finding that the appellant breached the arbitration agreement between him and the respondent by commencing proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) in Mumbai, India (“the NCLT Proceedings”). It declined to stay the present proceedings on case management grounds until concurrent proceedings in the Bombay High Court (“the Bombay suit”) and the NCLT have been concluded. Pertinent and Significant Points of the Judgment•  The Court of Appeal disagreed with the Judge that issues of arbitrability should be determined according to the law of the court hearing the matter irrespective of whether this issue arose at the pre-award stage or after the award had been issued. The arbitrability of a dispute is, in the first instance, determined by the law that governs the arbitration agreement. If it is a foreign governing law and that law provides that the subject matter of the dispute cannot be arbitrated, the Singapore court will not allow the arbitration to proceed because it would be contrary to public policy to enforce such an arbitration agreement. Further, because of the operation of s 11 of the IAA, where a dispute may be arbitrable under the law of the arbitration agreement but Singapore law as the law of the seat considers that dispute to be non-arbitrable, the arbitration would not be able to proceed. In both cases, it would be contrary to public policy to permit such an arbitration to take place. Introduction1 In the High Court proceedings (“OS 242”) from which this appeal arose, the Judge granted a permanent anti-suit injunction against the appellant. He was thereby restrained from: (a) pursuing the NCLT Proceedings; and (b) commencing other proceedings in respect of disputes relating to the management of a company incorporated in India named People Interactive (India) Private Limited (“the Company”). 2 The central issue in this appeal was whether by commencing the NCLT Proceedings, the appellant acted in breach of an arbitration agreement with the respondent. Background3 The appellant is an Indian resident and a founder of the Company. The Company owns and operates a well-known online and offline matrimonial service called “shaadi.com” (“Shaadi.com”). Shaadi.com was co-founded by the appellant and his cousins, Anand Mittal (“AM”) and Navin Mittal (“NM”), both of whom were among the initial shareholders of the Company. 4 The respondent is a private equity fund incorporated under the laws of Mauritius. It invested in the Company in early 2006. 5 On 10 February 2006, the appellant and his cousins entered into two agreements with the respondent. One, a Share Subscription and Share Purchase Agreement under which shares in the Company were to be issued to the respondent. Two, a Shareholders’ Agreement (“SHA”) regulating the parties’ rights and responsibilities as shareholders. On 7 May 2008, the parties to the SHA signed the First Supplementary Subscription-Cum-Shareholders’ Agreement (“the SSSA”) with SVB India Capital Partners LP, SVB Financial Group and the respondent. Clause 20.2 of the SHA and cl 10.2 of the SSSA are identically worded governing law and arbitration clauses. 6 In 2014, NM sold his shares to the respondent and resigned as a director of the Company. 7 Under the SHA, the respondent was entitled to appoint a nominee director to the Board of the Company. From 24 April 2019, one Shobitha Anne Mani (“Ms Mani”) was the respondent’s nominee director. 8 The parties’ relationship soured in 2017 when the respondent expressed an interest in exiting from the Company. Discussions on the potential sale of the Company were held with an entity known as Info Edge (India) Limited (“Info Edge”). The disengagement did not proceed smoothly as the parties disagreed on several matters including the potential sale of the Company to Info Edge, the respondent’s refusal to consent to the re-appointment of the appellant as managing director in 2019 and the re-appointment of NM as a Founding Director (a position defined in the SHA). The appellant asserted that the respondent colluded with AM to secure terms from Info Edge that were favourable to it. He also claimed that the respondent and AM took steps to oust him from the position of managing director of the company after he voiced his concerns about re-opening discussions with Info Edge in 2019. 9 On 3 March 2021, the appellant filed a petition in the NCLT seeking remedies for corporate oppression. In the NCLT Proceedings, the appellant is the petitioner and the Company, the respondent, Ms Mani, AM and NM are named as the respondents. 10 The respondent reacted to the filing of the NCLT Proceedings by filing OS 242 on 15 March 2021. On the same day, Andrew Ang SJ granted the respondent an urgent ex parte interim anti-suit injunction against the appellant. 11 Thereafter, the appellant took action to neutralise the effect of the interim anti-suit injunction. He commenced the Bombay suit on 18 March 2021, seeking, inter alia, a declaration that the NCLT is the only competent forum to hear and decide the disputes raised in the NCLT petition. The Bombay suit has not been fixed for hearing. Further, whilst the appellant filed an interlocutory application in the Bombay suit seeking an interim injunction restraining the respondent from enforcing the interim anti-suit injunction granted in March 2021, this application has not been heard either having been adjourned to a date to be fixed.The decision below12 The Judge granted the anti-suit injunction because he adjudged that the arbitration agreement was breached by the commencement of the NCLT Proceedings and there were no good reasons to withhold the injunction. 13 In concluding that the arbitration agreement had been breached, the Judge held: (a) the law that governed the issue of arbitrability at the pre-award stage was the law of the seat; (b) that the disputes between the parties were arbitrable under Singapore law being the law of the seat; and (c) assuming Indian law governed the arbitration agreement, the disputes fell within the scope of the arbitration agreement.The appeal14 The appellant put forward two alternative grounds of appeal. The first ground was that the parties’ disputes do not fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement. The appellant argued that if, however, oppression and mismanagement disputes were covered by the arbitration agreement, it would be null and void since Indian law did not allow these disputes to be arbitrated.15 The second ground of the appellant’s case was that the parties’ disputes referred to the NCLT were objectively non-arbitrable. He argued that subject matter arbitrability is determined solely by the law governing the arbitration agreement (ie, Indian law). Additionally, he argued that the International Arbitration Act 1994 (2020 Rev Ed) (“IAA”) is silent on which forum’s public policy should govern the question of subject matter arbitrability.The court’s decision16 The court first considered whether questions of arbitrability were to be determined according to the law of the seat or the proper law of the arbitration agreement: at [39(a)].17 The court noted academic and judicial opinion that issues of arbitrability should be determined according to the law of the court hearing the matter irrespective of whether the issue arose at the pre-award stage or after the award had been issued. However, it observed that adopting the law of the forum (which is usually the law of the seat) at the pre-award stage to determine subject matter arbitrability did not place enough weight on the importance of public policy in relation to issues of arbitrability: at [41]–[44].18 More specifically, the essential criterion of non-arbitrability is whether the subject matter of the dispute is of such a nature as to make it contrary to public policy for that dispute to be resolved by arbitration. The public policy referred to in s 11 of the IAA is not limited to the public policy of Singapore but extends to foreign public policy where this arises in connection with essential elements of an arbitration agreement: at [46]–[48].19 If it is contrary to local or relevant foreign public policy to determine a dispute arising under an arbitration agreement by arbitration, that dispute cannot proceed to arbitration in Singapore. In the case of a foreign arbitration agreement, that would be the result even if Singapore law might hold the dispute in question to be capable of resolution by arbitration: at [52].20 This did not, however, mean that the law of the seat was irrelevant to the arbitrability issue. On the contrary, if the arbitration concerned an issue that happens to be non-arbitrable by the law of the seat, that would be an additional obstacle by reason of Art 34(2)(b)(i) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration: at [54].21 Accordingly, the arbitrability of a dispute is, in the first instance, determined by the law that governs the arbitration agreement. If it is a foreign governing law and that law provides that the subject matter of the dispute cannot be arbitrated, the Singapore court will not allow the arbitration to proceed because it would be contrary to public policy, albeit foreign public policy, to enforce such an arbitration agreement. Further, because of the operation of s 11 of the IAA, where a dispute may be arbitrable under the law of the arbitration agreement but Singapore law as the law of the seat considers that dispute to be non-arbitrable, the arbitration would not be able to proceed. In both cases, it would be contrary to public policy to permit such an arbitration to take place: at [55].22 The court next determined the proper law of the arbitration agreement. Applying the three-stage text set out in BCY v BCZ [2017] 3 SLR 357, the court held that cl 20.1 of the SHA did not constitute an express choice of law for the arbitration agreement: at [62]–[63], [66].23 Nor could the parties be said to have made an implied choice that Indian law should govern the SHA. The intention of the parties was that their disputes should be settled by arbitration with the courts (whether Indian or Singaporean) playing a supporting role by granting interim relief, and enforcing any award in terms issued by the tribunal. This intention was not consistent with an implied choice of Indian law as the proper law of the arbitration agreement as such choice would negate the agreement since oppression claims (which are often intertwined with management disputes) are not arbitrable in India: at [67], [73]–[74].24 Proceeding to the third stage of the governing law inquiry, the court held that Singapore law was the law of the arbitration agreement. Singapore law had the most real and substantial connection with the arbitration agreement in the SHA: at [75].25 Moving on, the court considered whether the commencement of the NCLT Proceedings by the appellant was in breach of the arbitration agreement. Under cl 20.1 of the SPA, disputes “relating to the management of the Company or relating to any of the matters set out in [the SHA]” had to be submitted to arbitration: at [76].26 Practically all the complaints made by the appellant in the NCLT Proceedings could be said to either relate to the management of the Company or to the SHA in some way. Proof of these complaints to the satisfaction of the adjudicator may justify a finding that the respondent and/or AM and/or Ms Mani have acted unfairly towards the appellant or managed the Company in such a manner as amounts to oppression. But the simple fact that all these allegations might eventually support a finding of oppression cannot take them out of the categories of disputes that the SHA expressly provides should be submitted to arbitration. Accordingly, the institution of the NCLT Proceedings was a breach of the arbitration agreement and there was no ground on which to discharge the anti-suit injunction granted by the Judge: at [77]–[96].27 Finally, the court considered whether despite the breach of the arbitration agreement, these proceedings in Singapore should be stayed on case management grounds so that the appellant is not enjoined from continuing with the Bombay suit and obtaining an Indian court’s determination on whether the appellant’s claims have been correctly submitted to the NCLT. Whilst the court has case management powers to stay these proceedings until the concurrent proceedings in the Bombay High Court and the NCLT have been concluded, it held that no limited stay of these proceedings should be granted for two reasons: at [98]–[99], [107].28 First, there did not appear to be a likelihood that the Bombay suit would be dealt with and resolved within the next year and the court did not think that any limited stay should run for longer than 12 months: at [107].29 Second, it was too speculative to conclude that it was fruitless to conduct an arbitration just because of the possibility that the award would not be enforceable in India: at [108].30 For these reasons, the court dismissed the appeal and maintained the anti-suit injunction in the terms ordered by the Judge: at [109].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
