
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE6 December 2022Case summaryGomez, Kevin Bennett v Bird & Bird ATMD LLP and another [2022] SGHC(A) 42Civil Appeal No 69 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Hoo Sheau Peng):Outcome: Appellate Division dismisses appeal by former client against law firm and lawyer for professional negligence.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court dismissed the appeal.•  The appellant’s arguments on appeal involved three different claims in negligence made at different junctures of the appeal.•  The appellant was well aware that unpleaded allegations should not be raised on appeal; such attempts would be rejected and arguments in relation to them would be disregarded. Two such attempts were therefore rejected in the present case.•  In respect of the remaining claim, the appellant was unable to show that the second respondent had breached its duty of care. The issue was whether the second respondent had failed to discharge the standard of care expected of a reasonably competent and diligent solicitor. In this regard, the findings made by Australian courts did not bind Singapore courts because the elements of transnational issue estoppel were not satisfied.1 This is an appeal by the appellant against the decision of the High Court Judge (the “Judge”) in HC/S 198/2019 (“Suit 198”), dismissing his claim against the respondents for professional negligence. The first respondent is a law firm and the second respondent was its partner at the material time. The appellant was a former client of the respondents.Background to the appeal2 In HC/S 700/2008 (“Suit 700”), the respondents acted for the appellant who claimed against Mr Kuhadas Vivekananda (“Mr Kuhadas”) and Magnetron Insurance & Financial Services Pte Ltd (“Magnetron”) for commissions that Magnetron had failed to pay the appellant when he was previously working for Magnetron. Mr Kuhadas was the managing director and a major shareholder of Magnetron.3 On 1 April and 28 April 2011, the appellant obtained default judgment against Mr Kuhadas and Magnetron respectively for the sum of $140,967.87. Subsequently, the total damages owed to the appellant were assessed to be $1,226,289.70, and judgment for this amount was granted against Mr Kuhadas and Magnetron jointly and severally on 28 October 2011 (the “Judgment Sum” and the “October 2011 Judgment” respectively).4 On 18 February 2012, the respondents served on Mr Kuhadas a statutory demand (the “First Statutory Demand”) for the Judgment Sum with interest. On 20 June 2012, the respondents filed a bankruptcy application against Mr Kuhadas (the “First Bankruptcy Application”). This was withdrawn on 19 July 2012 because it was filed a day or two after the First Statutory Demand had lapsed. 5 On 18 July 2012, the respondents served a second statutory demand on Mr Kuhadas. On 30 August 2012, the appellant filed a second bankruptcy application against Mr Kuhadas (the “Second Bankruptcy Application”). Negotiations then took place between Mr Kuhadas and the second respondent (on behalf of the appellant), with an exchange of e-mail correspondence leading up to 22 February 2013 (the “Preceding Correspondence”). On 22 February 2013 at 11.36am, the second respondent sent an e-mail to Mr Kuhadas (the “22 February 2013 E-mail”) in which Mr Kuhadas agreed to, inter alia, pay a total of $50,000 in consideration for the appellant to “withdraw the [Second Bankruptcy Application]”.6 It is not in dispute that an agreement was reached between the appellant and Mr Kuhadas, on the terms contained in the 22 February 2013 E-mail (the “22 February 2013 Agreement”). However, it is disputed whether that agreement constituted a full and final settlement of the Judgment Sum, and that became one of the primary issues before the Judge and the central issue in the appeal. Mr Kuhadas fulfilled the terms of the agreement. On 7 March 2013, leave was granted for the appellant to withdraw the Second Bankruptcy Application.7 In November 2013, the appellant engaged a different solicitor, Mr Vijai Parwani (“Mr Parwani”) from Parwani Law LLC, to issue another statutory demand against Mr Kuhadas (the “Third Statutory Demand”).  On 11 December 2013, Mr Kuhadas wrote to the second respondent. He claimed that he did not know that the appellant had not, by the 22 February 2013 Agreement, given him an unconditional discharge of the Judgment Sum.8 On 14 February 2014, the appellant registered the October 2011 Judgment in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on and served a bankruptcy notice on Mr Kuhadas on 4 March 2014 (the “Australian Bankruptcy Notice”). Mr Kuhadas successfully applied to the Federal Circuit Court of Australia (“FCC”) to set aside the Australian Bankruptcy Notice. In its judgment of 30 May 2014, the FCC reasoned that Mr Kuhadas had at the very least “raised an arguable case that the effect of [the 22 February 2013 Agreement] was to discharge Mr Kuhadas of his obligation to satisfy the [October 2011 Judgment]”. Thereafter, the appellant appealed to the Federal Court of Australia (the “FCA”). The appeal was dismissed on 5 June 2015.9 Meanwhile, the Third Statutory Demand was served on Mr Kuhadas by Parwani Law LLC on 8 April 2014.  Citing the FCC Judgment in support, Mr Kuhadas then applied to set aside the Third Statutory Demand. The Assistant Registrar (“AR”) dismissed the application on 18 July 2014.  Parwani Law LLC filed the appellant’s third bankruptcy application against Mr Kuhadas (the “Third Bankruptcy Application”). However, Mr Kuhadas appealed against the decision of the AR dismissing his setting aside application. Chan Seng Onn J (as he then was) allowed the appeal and set aside the Third Statutory Demand on 1 September 2014.10 On 21 February 2019, the appellant commenced Suit 198 against the respondents, alleging professional negligence relating to the enforcement of the October 2011 Judgment.The appeal11 The appellant’s arguments on appeal involves three different and distinct claims made at different junctures:a. Negligent Advice Claim: the appellant alleges for the first time that the second respondent breached his duty of care in failing to inform him of the available options he could have pursued in Singapore following the outcome of the FCC Judgment (including the option of obtaining a decision in Singapore on the construction of the 22 February 2013 Agreement). This has caused him loss.b. Negligent Drafting Claim: the appellant claims that the 22 February 2013 E-mail was “poorly drafted”, failed to communicate the appellant’s intentions to Mr Kuhadas “more clearly”, and “ran contrary” to the appellant’s instructions to the second respondent to “allow Mr Kuhadas the freedom to sell Ballota Park without encumbrances, and to receive Mr Kuhadas’ share of the proceeds (i.e. an aggregate sum of S$50,000) from the sale … and then to recommence bankruptcy proceedings against Mr Kuhadas so that the Official Assignee can investigate the sale of Thane St and Changi Court, among other things”.c. Negligent Omission Claim: the appellant claims that the second respondent should have, by 27 February 2013, taken steps to rectify Mr Kuhadas’ understanding that the 22 February 2013 Agreement was a full discharge of his obligations to pay the Judgment Sum. The appellant submits that the second respondent’s failure to do so constituted a breach of his duty of care and thereby caused him loss.The court’s decisionThe Negligent Advice Claim12 The Negligent Advice Claim was not pleaded by the appellant. It is a new claim with distinct allegations of negligence made against the respondents. It did not form part of the appellant’s case below. Being an unpleaded claim, it is not open to the appellant to raise it in the appeal without having obtained leave to amend his pleadings to introduce the claim, which was not done. The appellant’s attempt to introduce this claim was therefore rejected: at [37] and [41].The Negligent Drafting Claim13 It is settled law that in carrying out the work instructed by a client, a solicitor is expected to exercise the care and skill of a reasonably competent solicitor in discharging his duties under his retainer. It is therefore not disputed that the second respondent had owed such a duty of care to the appellant: at [43].14 In respect of whether the second respondent had breached his duty of care, the material issue was whether the second respondent had failed to discharge the standard of care expected of a reasonably competent and diligent solicitor in the drafting of the 22 February 2013 E-mail. The Judge rightly noted that it was unnecessary for her to adjudicate on the legal effect of the 22 February 2013 Agreement: at [44], [45] and [47].15 The findings made by the FCC and the FCA on the construction of the 22 February 2013 Agreement do not bind the Singapore courts. First, issue estoppel does not arise because the parties to the present proceedings are clearly not the same as the parties in the Australian proceedings. Second, the findings made by the FCC on the construction of the 22 February 2013 Agreement, which were largely upheld by the FCA, are not strictly necessary to its decision on Mr Kuhadas’ application to set aside the Australian Bankruptcy Notice. In addition, the FCC did not have a complete picture of the available evidence, as compared to that adduced before this court: at [50] to [53].16 Chan J’s decision did not assist the appellant’s case. For the purpose of the appeal against the AR’s decision to not set aside the Third Statutory Demand, Chan J would only have determined that there was a triable issue as to the debt. There is certainly no indication that he construed the 22 February 2013 Agreement to be a full and final settlement of the Judgment Sum. Moreover, it appears that even the appellant had previously believed that Chan J’s decision had such limited consequences: at [54] and [55].17 The Judge did not err in relying on the Preceding Correspondence in arriving at her finding that the second respondent did not breach the duty of care. She examined the Preceding Correspondence only to determine the key question of whether the second respondent had breached the standard of care, and not to construe the 22 February 2013 Agreement: at [56] and [57].18 In any case, the Judge’s findings were well supported by the detailed reasons provided and there was no basis to disturb her findings that the second respondent was not negligent in the drafting of the 22 February 2013 E-mail. Strictly speaking, there was therefore no need to deal with the other elements of negligence. The second respondent is not liable in respect of the Negligent Drafting Claim: at [61], [64] and [77].Negligent Omission Claim19 Like the Negligent Advice Claim, the Negligent Omission Claim was not pleaded. For the same reasons given in respect of rejecting the former, the court rejected the appellant’s attempt to introduce this new claim: at [80].Conclusion20 The appellant’s claim in negligence against the second respondent is not established and the liability of the first respondent therefore does not arise for consideration: at [83].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
