
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE1 December 2022Case summaryOng Kian Peng Julian v Singapore Medical Council and other matters [2022] SGCA 302General Division of the High Court - Originating Summonses Nos 3, 4, 5, 6 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: C3J allows SMC’s appeals against sentences imposed on two doctors who had exchanged a patient’s contact for personal use.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  It is not necessary for an act or conduct of a medical practitioner to be in breach of a guideline under the SMC Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines (2016 Edition) for that medical practitioner to be found guilty under s 53(1)(c) of the MRA. In determining what amounts to such misconduct, the court makes an objective inquiry into whether public confidence in the profession would be damaged by the revelation of their conduct, and what such conduct would signify to the public at large about doctors. This is an inquiry that is to be undertaken from the perspective of the reasonable layperson and no special deference is given to what other members of the profession might think about the conduct: at [24] to [25]. Background 1 These appeals concerned two doctors, Dr Ong Kian Peng Julian (“Dr Ong”) and Dr Chan Herng Nieng (“Dr Chan”), who each claimed trial to a single charge of improper conduct which brought disrepute to the medical profession under s 53(1)(c) of the Medical Registration Act (Cap 174, 2014 Rev Ed) (the “MRA”). Both Dr Ong and Dr Chan were convicted on the proceeded charges and were sentenced to terms of suspension of eight months and five months, respectively. Originating Summonses Nos 3 and 4 of 2022 were the appeals of Dr Ong and Dr Chan against their respective convictions and sentences. Originating Summonses Nos 5 and 6 of 2022 were the appeals by the Singapore Medical Council (the “SMC”) against the sentences imposed on Dr Ong and Dr Chan respectively.The material facts 2 Dr Ong and Dr Chan were registered medical practitioners. Dr Ong was a consultant general and colorectal surgeon in private practice and Dr Chan was a senior consultant in the Department of Psychiatry at the Singapore General Hospital at the material time. 3 Dr Chan was in an intimate relationship with one Serene Tiong (“Ms Tiong”) between 2017 and 2018. Sometime during this relationship, Ms Tiong discovered that Dr Chan was involved in intimate relationships with other women. Ms Tiong then accessed Dr Chan’s phone and took images of various WhatsApp messages exchanged between Dr Ong and Dr Chan. Ms Tiong filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against Dr Chan and Dr Ong with the SMC, attaching the aforementioned images. 4 Disciplinary proceedings were initiated against both Dr Ong and Dr Chan in respect of one of the WhatsApp message exchanges in which Dr Ong had forwarded the contact information of one of his patients (“K”) to Dr Chan (the “Messages”). The rest of the WhatsApp message exchanges appended to the Complaint documented various conversations between Dr Ong and Dr Chan discussing various other sexual encounters they each had which did not concern K (the “Remaining Messages”), but were not the subject of any charges.5 K was a property agent who had consulted Dr Ong on 19 March 2018 and had undergone a medical procedure performed by Dr Ong on the same day. It was during this time, that Dr Ong obtained K’s consent to share her contact details with Dr Chan, on the supposed basis that Dr Chan was looking to purchase a property. A WhatsApp conversation ensued between Dr Ong and Dr Chan, where Dr Ong sent Dr Chan K’s contact details and discussed how Dr Chan was to approach K (ie, the Messages). The Messages comprised nine messages, spanning about two minutes.6 The DT found that the proper interpretation to be made from the Messages was that Dr Ong had colluded with Dr Chan to introduce K to the latter so that Dr Chan could attempt to engage in sexual activity with her. Accordingly, the DT convicted both Dr Ong and Dr Chan on their respective proceeded charges, and sentenced Dr Ong to eight months’ suspension from practice, and Dr Chan to five months’ suspension from practice. 7 In Dr Ong’s and Chan’s appeals against their convictions, they raised two arguments. First, what was the proper inference to be drawn from the Messages. Second, whether the Remaining Messages should not have been considered by the DT. As for the parties’ respective appeals against the sentences imposed, the issue was whether the DT had properly considered the relevant sentencing considerations in coming to its decision on the sentences. The court’s decision8 It is not necessary for an act or conduct of a medical practitioner to be in breach of a guideline under the SMC Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines (2016 Edition) for that medical practitioner to be found guilty under s 53(1)(c) of the MRA. In determining what amounts to such misconduct, the court makes an objective inquiry into whether public confidence in the profession would be damaged by the revelation of their conduct, and what such conduct would signify to the public at large about doctors. This is an inquiry that is to be undertaken from the perspective of a reasonable layperson and no special deference is given to what other members of the profession might think about the conduct: at [24] to [25]. 9 The interpretation of the Messages did not support the argument put forward by both Dr Ong and Dr Chan, that this was a conversation about a genuine property transaction. The proper interpretation and inferences to be drawn from the text of the Messages and the context in which the Messages arose, was that Dr Ong was sharing his patient’s particulars with Dr Chan to enable the latter to pursue his own agenda, which they both knew was for Dr Chan to try to have sex with K. Accordingly, the court agreed that the DT had correctly concluded from the Messages that Dr Ong and Dr Chan had colluded to introduce K to Dr Chan in order for Dr Chan to attempt to have sexual relations with K: at [31] to [39], and [49].10 The exclusion of similar fact evidence is to guard against reasoning by propensity. However, there is no blanket rule against the admission of similar fact evidence, which may be admissible under ss 14 and 15 of the Evidence Act 1893 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “EA”) where it can be shown that the probative value of the evidence exceeds its prejudicial effect: at [41] and [42]. 11 In determining the admissibility of evidence, the purpose for which the evidence is sought to be admitted is vital. In the present case, the text of the Messages and the context in which they were exchanged was sufficient to show that Dr Ong and Dr Chan had colluded to refer K to Dr Chan with sexual intent. The Remaining Messages was only of potential relevance to establish the nature of the relationship between Dr Ong and Dr Chan so as to provide the context in which the Messages could be understood. Such evidence is admissible under s 9 of the EA and did not raise the issue of similar fact evidence: at [45] and [46]. 12 In any event, having considered the cogency of the Remaining Messages, the strength of the inference to be drawn from them, and their relevance, it is also clear that the probative weight of the Remaining Messages outweighed their prejudicial effect: at [42] and [47].13 The DT had not erred in finding that both Dr Ong and Dr Chan were guilty of improper conduct which brought disrepute to the medical profession. It was proven beyond a reasonable doubt that Dr Ong’s conduct in colluding with Dr Chan to refer K, who was his patient, to Dr Chan to attempt to engage in sexual relations with her, was something a reasonable person would conclude that Dr Ong ought not to have done. It was also proven beyond a reasonable doubt that Dr Chan’s conduct in colluding with Dr Ong was something a reasonable person would conclude that Dr Chan ought not to have done: at [50] to [59]. 14 Adopting the four-step sentencing framework set out by the court in Wong Meng Hang v Singapore Medical Council [2019] 3 SLR 526, the court was of the view that the appropriate order in respect of Dr Ong was a term of suspension of two years. Dr Ong’s conduct entailed significant harm to public confidence in the medical profession. Dr Ong’s actions were an abuse of the trust and confidence that a patient had reposed in him, and fell in the “moderate” range. Dr Ong’s misconduct was of a medium degree of culpability in that he had obtained K’s consent under false pretences, initiated the act of collusion with Dr Chan, and was an intentional departure from the conduct reasonably expected of a medical practitioner. Given the moderate harm which resulted from Dr Ong’s conduct and medium degree of culpability, the DT’s sentence of eight months’ suspension was manifestly inadequate. The applicable indicative sentencing range was a term of suspension between one to two years. Bearing in mind the need for general deterrence, Dr Ong’s seniority, his apparent lack of remorse, as well as the need to protect public confidence and uphold the standing of the medical profession, no mitigatory weight was placed on Dr Ong’s unblemished record: [67] to [83].15 The court increased Dr Chan’s sentence to 18 months’ suspension from practice. Similar to Dr Ong’s case, the harm caused by Dr Chan’s conduct to the public confidence was significant and fell in the “moderate” category. While Dr Chan’s degree of culpability fell in the “medium category”, his culpability was not as serious as Dr Ong’s in that he did not actively seek the contact information of K. Given the moderate harm which resulted from Dr Chan’s conduct and medium degree of culpability, the DT’s sentence of five months’ suspension was manifestly inadequate. Taking into account the harm caused and the relative culpability of Dr Chan and Dr Ong, a lower overall sentence was imposed in respect of Dr Chan. For the same reasons as Dr Ong, no mitigatory weight was placed on Dr Chan’s unblemished record, having considered his seniority and the need for general deterrence: at [86] to [91].  16 Both the appeals of Dr Ong and Dr Chan against their convictions and sentences in OS 3 and OS 4, respectively, were dismissed. The appeals of the SMC in OS 5 and OS 6 against the sentences imposed on Dr Ong and Dr Chan, respectively, were allowed: at [93].  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
