
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 December 2022Case summaryCUG and others v CUH [2022] SGHC(I) 16Singapore International Commercial Court Originating Summons No 10 of 2022---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Sir Henry Bernard Eder IJ):Outcome: SICC dismissed an application to challenge the arbitral tribunal’s decision on jurisdiction. 1 The applicants are CUG, CTM, CTN and CTO. The respondent is CUH. CUG was the claimant in an arbitration (“the Arbitration”). CTM, CTN, CTO and CUH were the respondents in the Arbitration.2 A contractual dispute arose between the parties. CUG commenced the Arbitration against CTM, CTN, CTO and CUH. In a partial final award issued (“the Award”) by the arbitral tribunal (“the Tribunal”), the Tribunal determined that it lacked jurisdiction over CUH. In the Tribunal’s view, there was no legally binding arbitration agreement between CUG and CUH.3 CUG, as well as CTM, CTN and CTO (the “Original Parties”), brought the present application under s 10(3) of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) to challenge the Tribunal’s decision on jurisdiction.Background to the application4 The underlying dispute involved two service agreements (the “Agreements”) negotiated between CUG on the one hand, and CTM, CTN, CTO and CUH on the other. 5 CTM, CTN, CTO and CUH entered into a joint venture agreement to act as joint contractors (the “JV Parties”) of a large refinery construction project in Osteria (the “JV Project”), which was awarded by the Osteria State Company (the “OSC”). Crucially, the JV Parties operated one bank account (the “JV Bank Account”), and any transactions involving the payment of money out of that account required the authorisation of all the JV Parties, including CUH.6 In the course of performing the JV Project, the JV Parties were unable to collect payments due from OSC. The JV Parties thus engaged CUG’s services to provide assistance in securing payments (including outstanding payments) due by the OSC. Pursuant to the Agreements, the JV Parties initially agreed to pay CUG a commission rate of 1%. Following further discussions, the Original Parties agreed to increase CUG’s commission rate to 2.2%. However, CUH protested against the increment. The parties thus reached an impasse on CUG’s fees. 7 While the Original Parties proceeded to sign the Agreements, CUH maintained its objections and never signed the Agreements. It is important to note that: (a) the Agreements provided that the JV Parties shall be severally liable to CUG for payment of its respective proportionate share of fees, with CUH, in particular, being liable for 37.5% of CUG’s fees; (b) the Agreements state that they were effective from the date of signing by CUG and the JV Parties; and (c) the Agreements contained identical arbitration clauses stating that the arbitration shall take place in Singapore and conducted pursuant to the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce.8 It is also important to note that while CUG and the Original Parties signed the Agreements, CTM informed CUG in an email dated 19 November 2019 (the “19 November Email”) of the following: (a) CUH’s objections to signing the agreement and to releasing monies from the JV Bank Account to pay CUG’s invoices; (b) the Original Parties’ efforts to pressure CUH into signing the Agreements; and (c) should CUH maintain its refusal to sign the Agreements, the Original Parties will in the worst case scenario trigger internal JV mechanisms to ensure that CUG would still be paid for its invoices, regardless of CUH’s position. In an email dated 2 December 2017 (the “2 December Email”), CTM’s representative informed CUG’s representative of substantially the same points. Notably, CUG was also informed in the 2 December Email that: (a) CTM had issued an official letter requiring CUH to “cure” its material breach; and (b) CTM had taken steps internally amongst the JV Parties to release payment to CUG upon receipt of CUG’s invoices.9 In February 2018, the OSC wired a progress payment to the JV Bank Account. On the same day the progress payment was deposited into the JV Bank Account, CUH signed off and authorised payments made out of the JV Bank Account to CUG. And between 19 February 2018 and 27 October 2018, a total of ten payments equivalent to the 2.2% rate stated in the Agreements, were made out of the JV Bank Account against separate invoices issued by CUG, each of which referred specifically to the Agreements and were addressed to all the JV Parties, including CUH. Each payment was also expressly authorised by all the JV Parties, including CUH.10 It is important to note that CUH did not express any reservation whatsoever about authorising each of the payments out of the JV Bank Account. CUG also did not know which of the JV Parties had authorised these payments. In particular, CUG was not aware that CUH had authorised these payments out of the JV account although it was CUG’s case that it had reasonably assumed that this was the case. 11 In November 2018, several disputes arose between the parties over CUG’s performance of its services under the Agreements. Negotiations took place between CUG and the JV Parties between end-2018 and well into 2019 to resolve these disputes. It is common ground that CUH participated in these discussions. A draft supplemental agreement (the “Supplemental Agreement”) was also created, although it was never finalised and never executed. 12 CUG subsequently commenced arbitration in September 2019 to recover amounts said by CUG to be due under the Agreements. Shortly after, in November 2019, the JV Parties (including CUH) and CUG signed a settlement agreement (the “Settlement Agreement”). Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the JV Parties agreed to pay CUG a settlement sum equivalent to the fees amounting to 2.2% of the progress payments received by the JV from the OSC. Following this payment, CUG withdrew the arbitration and continued performing the Agreements. 13 CUG and the JV Parties engaged in further negotiations between December 2019 and March 2020 relating to payments that the OSC owed to the JV Parties. 14 Disputes between the JV Parties and CUG regarding the payment of CUG’s outstanding invoices continued and remained resolved. CUG thus terminated the Agreements on May 2020 and commenced the Arbitration in July 2020. Shortly after the Tribunal’s constitution, CUH mounted a jurisdictional challenge. The Tribunal ordered that CUH’s jurisdictional challenge be heard as a preliminary issue. In December 2021, the Tribunal delivered its ruling in the Award holding, amongst others, that CUH was not a party to the Agreements and hence was not bound to the terms of the Agreements, which included the arbitration agreements contained therein.Decision of the court15 The court held that the absence of a signature to a written agreement does not, of itself, preclude the coming into existence of a legally binding contract. It is also sufficient for the parties’ conduct to justify a conclusion that the parties are to be regarded as having entered a legally binding contract on the terms of such written agreement, provided that the relevant conduct on the part of the parties “crosses the line” (in the sense that it was communicated between the parties by words or conduct, including any relevant “factual matrix” known to the parties) and bearing in mind the reasonable expectations of honest sensible businessmen. However, where a contract prescribes signature as the mode of binding the parties to the contract, the court will not reach this conclusion lightly: at [91] and [95].16 The starting position was that CUH did not sign the Agreements. Further, CUH’s refusal to sign the Agreements because of its objection to the fee structure claimed by CUG was made clear to both the Original Parties and to CUG as communicated in the 19 November Email and the 2 December Email. Crucially, the 19 November Email was effectively a form of assurance given by the Original Parties to CUG that CUG would get paid, regardless of CUH’s position: at [96] to [98]. 17 The court rejected the Applicants’ case that the series of payments made to CUH by the JV Parties between February and October 2018, and the fact that these payments were made without any apparent objections or qualifications on CUH’s part, was sufficient to support the finding that CUH had agreed by conduct to be bound by the terms of the Agreements, including the arbitration agreements contained therein. In the court’s view, these payments were simply a series of invoices issued by CUG to the JV and the payments by the JV to CUG. There was no actual payment at all directly by CUH itself to CUG. Further, it was common ground that CUG was not aware that such payments were in fact authorised by CUH: at [100] to [105]. 18 The court also found that CUG’s assumption that CUH had authorised payments to CUG could not have been reasonably made. There was no conduct on CUH’s part which might justify CUG reasonably assuming that CUH was agreeing to be bound by the Agreements including the Arbitration Agreements. The court emphasised that CUG did not know that CUH had authorised the payments. Further, the Original Parties assured CUG in the 19 November Email and 2 December Email that the internal JV mechanisms would be triggered to ensure that CUG would be paid, even if CUH refused to sign the Agreements and authorise payments. All of these meant that it was equally possible that the reason for CUG’s receipt of the series of payments was because the Original Parties had activated the internal JV mechanisms to make the payments to CUG itself without CUH’s active approval: at [106] to [114].19 The court also rejected the Original Parties’ submission that CUH’s conduct smacks of dishonesty. CUH made it clear to the Original Parties from the outset that it was not prepared to sign the Agreements. There was also no positive evidence that CUH’s position changed during the entire period: at [117] to [118].20 CUH’s conduct in authorising the payments between February and October 2018 did not necessarily convey an unspoken but unequivocal message to the Original Parties that CUH considered itself bound by the Agreements. First, the fact that CUH decided to authorise a particular payment or even a series of payments alongside the Original Parties does not unequivocally amount to a legally binding contract to allow the JV to make any future payments. Further, the Original Parties’ assumption that the fact of CUH authorising the payments to CUG amounted to CUH dropping its initial objections and acquiescing to the Agreements could not have been reasonably made. It was equally likely that the Original Parties were content not to stir the pot or to press CUH for its signature: at [121] to [122].21 As for CUH’s conduct following the series of payments, the court found that nothing in CUH’s conduct supports the finding that CUH agreed to be bound to the Agreements, and hence the arbitration agreements therein: at [126] to [135].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.
