
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE1 December 2022 Case summaryRoszaidi bin Osman v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 75 Criminal Appeal No. 2 of 2019--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Outcome: CoA re-sentences accused person convicted of drug trafficking from death to life imprisonment as his major depressive and substance use disorders had substantially impaired his mental responsibility. Pertinent and significant points of the majority judgmentThe Second Limb•  The primary concern underlying the restrictive reading of the aetiologies prescribed in the second limb of the test set out in Nagaenthran a/l K Dharmalingam v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2019] 2 SLR 216 (“the Nagaenthran test”) (“the Second Limb”) was the need to limit the application of s 33B(3)(b) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”) to accused persons suffering from recognised and established psychiatric conditions, and to exclude abnormalities of the mind that arose from other sources (such as heightened states of emotion or intoxication) that were not beyond the accused person’s control: at [60].•  In the present case, the Second Limb was satisfied by the accused person’s major depressive disorder (“MDD”) and substance use disorder (“SUD”) operating together in a synergistic manner at the material time: at [78], [79] and [81].The Third Limb  •  In respect of the third limb of the Nagaenthran test – which required the accused person to establish that the relevant abnormality of mind had substantially impaired his mental responsibility for his acts and omissions in relation to his offence (“the Third Limb”) – there were at least three specific aspects of mental responsibility that were typically relevant under s 33B(3)(b) of the MDA: (a) the accused person’s capacity to perceive his acts or omissions and know their nature (“basic cognitive ability”); (b) his capacity to know and appreciate whether those acts or omissions were wrong, in the sense of being both contrary to the ordinary standards of reasonable and honest persons and contrary to law (“moral and legal cognition”); and (c) his ability to exercise his will to control his actions such that he acted in accordance with what he knew to be right or wrong (“control”). It was only necessary for him to establish a substantial impairment in respect of any one of these aspects: at [105] and [122].•  The relevant impairment of mental responsibility had to be real and material, as opposed to trivial or minimal. It did not need to be total, nor did it need to rise to the level of unsoundness of mind or automatism. While an accused person’s inability to exercise willpower to control his physical acts would suffice to establish a substantial impairment, his difficulty in doing so might suffice depending on the degree of difficulty faced. The test ultimately ought to be whether the accused person’s ability to resist doing what he did was sufficiently impaired: at [87], [88] and [109] to [111].•  In the present case, the Third Limb was satisfied as the combination of the accused person’s MDD and SUD had a real and material effect on his ability to resist the urge to procure and consume drugs, and consequently on his decision to traffic drugs as a means of obtaining those drugs, as well as on his specific act of giving the drugs to his wife which formed the subject of his drug trafficking charge: at [198] and [199]. Pertinent and significant points of the minority judgment•  A person’s mental state was (and ought to be) viewed holistically as an organic whole and could not be analysed in slices: at [205] and [222].•  Rationality and volitional control were inextricably linked. Rationality referred to the making of calculated and logical decisions. If an accused person’s conduct demonstrated rationality, the stronger inference was that the accused did not resist his impulses: at [253].•  Given the differences in the nature of murder and drug trafficking, it would be quite difficult to make out diminished responsibility for the latter offence: at [291] and [293]. Background to the appeal and material facts1 The accused (“Roszaidi”) was charged with trafficking in a controlled drug under s 5(1)(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”) by handing two packets containing not less than 32.54g of diamorphine (“the Drugs”) to his wife, Ms Azidah binte Zainal (“Azidah”). 2 Roszaidi was convicted by a judge of the General Division of the High Court (“the Judge”) and sentenced to death. In his appeal against his sentence, he sought to have his sentence reduced to life imprisonment under the alternative sentencing regime in s 33B(1)(b) of the MDA. The Judge held that Roszaidi was not eligible for the alternative sentencing regime, and Roszaidi appealed against the Judge’s decision.Decision of the majority of the Court of Appeal comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ, Judith Prakash JCA and Belinda Ang JCA (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):3 Under the three-limb test set out in Nagaenthran a/l K Dharmalingam v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2019] 2 SLR 216 (“the Nagaenthran test”), Roszaidi had to establish the following cumulative requirements on a balance of probabilities in order to satisfy s 33B(3)(b) of the MDA: (a) that he was suffering from an abnormality of mind (“the First Limb”); (b) that the abnormality of mind arose from a condition of arrested or retarded development of mind, arose from any inherent causes, or was induced by disease or injury (“the Second Limb”); and (c) that the abnormality of mind substantially impaired his mental responsibility for his acts and omissions in relation to his offence (“the Third Limb”): at [2]. 4 It was not in dispute that the First Limb was satisfied as Roszaidi was suffering from major depressive disorder (“MDD”) and substance use disorder (“SUD”) at the material time. The issues in the appeal therefore pertained only to the Second and Third Limbs: at [3].General observations on the expert evidence 5 The evidence of the Prosecution’s expert, Dr Bharat Saluja (“Dr Saluja”), had serious shortcomings and consequently limited utility in assisting the court with answering the questions before it. Dr Saluja’s first report (“Dr Saluja’s 1st Report”) was prepared long before the issue of re-sentencing under s 33B(1)(b) was raised, and was directed at addressing a different set of issues from those relevant to s 33B(3)(b). In his second to fifth reports, Dr Saluja added little of value to his initial analysis, and essentially maintained his earlier assessment that Roszaidi’s mental condition did not contribute to his offence even though the relevant questions and thresholds under s 33B(3)(b) were fundamentally different. These subsequent reports were also utterly lacking in rigour and substantiation: at [48] to [53]. 6 In contrast, the reports of the Defence’s expert, Dr Jacob Rajesh (“Dr Rajesh”), were all directed at addressing the limbs of the Nagaenthran test. Moreover, although his interviews with Roszaidi took place four years after the offence, they had the advantage of being targeted at addressing the remitted questions: at [54] and [55].The Second Limb of the Nagaenthran test 7 The primary concern underlying the restrictive reading of the aetiologies prescribed in the Second Limb was the need to limit the application of s 33B(3)(b) of the MDA to accused persons suffering from recognised and established psychiatric conditions, and to exclude abnormalities of the mind that arose from other sources (such as heightened states of emotion or intoxication) that were not beyond the accused person’s control: at [60].8 In the present case, the Second Limb was satisfied by Roszaidi’s MDD and his SUD operating together in a synergistic manner at the material time (“the Synergy Claim”). Roszaidi’s MDD formed the underlying substrate for his SUD, such that it accounted for the intensity at which his SUD operated at the time of the offence. Both Dr Saluja and Dr Rajesh recognised, in substance, that Roszaidi used drugs to cope with his depressive symptoms. This was borne out by the fact that the escalation in Roszaidi’s drug consumption in the months before the offence dovetailed with the onset of his MDD. As Roszaidi’s MDD and SUD were inextricably intertwined at the material time, it would be impractical and artificial to attempt to ascertain the aetiology of his SUD in isolation from his MDD. Given that it was undisputed that Roszaidi’s MDD arose from an inherent cause, it followed that Roszaidi’s SUD also arose from an inherent cause: at [78] and [79]. 9  In these circumstances, it was unnecessary to consider whether SUD per se could satisfy the Second Limb, and this question was left open: at [81].The Third Limb of the Nagaenthran test 10 Given that the Second Limb was satisfied by Roszaidi’s MDD and SUD operating together, the crucial question that arose for determination under the Third Limb was whether the combination of Roszaidi’s MDD and his SUD substantially impaired his mental responsibility for his acts in relation to his offence at the material time: at [82] and [133].The applicable principles11 Although diminished responsibility operated in a functionally similar way both in the context of s 33B of the MDA and as a partial defence to murder in Exception 7 to s 300 of the Penal Code 1871 (2020 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”), there would be a subtle but important difference of emphasis in its application, stemming from the nature of the relevant offences. In particular, in the context of s 33B, the court had to pay particular attention to what influenced the accused person’s prior decision to commit the offence (as distinct from the execution of the offence), and whether this decision was itself a product of the accused person’s decision-making faculties being substantially impaired. This might be especially important where the underlying abnormality of mind in issue was of such a nature as to distort the accused person’s ability to make decisions: at [84(a)], [93], [94], [96] and [100].12 It was essential to have regard to the role of the accused person’s abnormalities of mind not only in relation to the specific acts constituting the primary offence with which he was charged, but also in relation to the broader question of what led him to carry out those acts and to commit that offence: at [84(b)].13 The accused person’s abnormality of mind need not be the cause of his offending. Instead, the question was whether the abnormality of mind had an influence on his commission of the relevant acts: at [104].14 There were at least three specific aspects of mental responsibility that were typically relevant under s 33B(3)(b): (a) the accused person’s capacity to perceive his acts or omissions and know their nature (“basic cognitive ability”); (b) his capacity to know and appreciate whether those acts or omissions were wrong, in the sense of being both contrary to the ordinary standards of reasonable and honest persons and contrary to law (“moral and legal cognition”); and (c) his ability to exercise his will to control his actions such that he acted in accordance with what he knew to be right or wrong (“control”). It was only necessary for an accused person to establish a substantial impairment in respect of any one of these aspects: at [105] and [122].15 The relevant impairment of mental responsibility had to be real and material, as opposed to trivial or minimal. It did not need to be total, nor did it need to rise to the level of unsoundness of mind in s 84 of the Penal Code or automatism. While an accused person’s inability to exercise willpower to control his physical acts would suffice, his difficulty in doing so might suffice depending on the degree of difficulty faced. The test ultimately ought to be whether his ability to resist doing what he did was sufficiently impaired: at [87], [88] and [109] to [111].16 While rationality might be relevant to both the second and the third aspects of mental responsibility, it was unhelpful to introduce rationality as a label or touchstone to guide the overall analysis of impairment. With regard to moral and legal cognition, the specific inquiry was whether the accused person was able to distinguish right from wrong on an objective (or rational) basis, rather than on a subjective (and likely irrational) basis. The relevance of rationality to control was also not straightforward. If the accused person’s decision to commit the offence was one in respect of which his mental responsibility was materially and relevantly impaired, such that this decision was in truth the product of a disordered mind which was not functioning rationally in the first place, his seeming rationality while following through with that anterior decision would not necessarily displace the availability of s 33B(3)(b): at [113] to [115] and [117].17 Whether or not the Third Limb was satisfied was primarily a question of fact for the court to decide, based on all the evidence before it: at [84(c)] and [103]. Application to the facts18 In this case, there was no dispute that Roszaidi had basic cognitive ability and moral and legal cognition. It was the aspect of control that was of crucial importance: at [106]. 19 Drawing together the various threads, the central question before the court should be framed in the following terms: Did Roszaidi’s abnormalities of mind have a real and material (as opposed to trivial or minimal) effect or influence on his ability to exercise control over his actions, and specifically to act in accordance with what he knew to be right?: at [112]. 20 As framed in the charge against him, Roszaidi’s specific act of trafficking was his act of giving the two packets containing the Drugs to Azidah. However, as viewing this specific act in isolation would have artificially ignored the reality of what Roszaidi was in fact doing, it was necessary to consider whether Roszaidi’s mental responsibility for both his specific act of giving the Drugs to Azidah and his prior decision to traffic in the Drugs were substantially impaired by his MDD and SUD: at [132] and [159].The expert evidence on the Third Limb 21 Dr Saluja had focused only on the question of whether Roszaidi’s mental responsibility was substantially impaired by his MDD. Dr Saluja’s opinion on the Synergy Claim having been rejected in the analysis of the Second Limb, it followed that his opinion on the Third Limb should also be accorded little to no weight, because he never considered the effect of the synergistic combination of Roszaidi’s SUD and MDD on his mental responsibility: at [136(a)], [138] and [139].22 In addition, Dr Saluja’s approach to analysing the impairment of Roszaidi’s mental responsibility was inherently flawed. In his reports, Dr Saluja focused almost exclusively on the first two aspects of mental responsibility, and he did not squarely address the third aspect of control. Even when Dr Saluja addressed this aspect of mental responsibility, his views were based on an unduly limited and narrow conception of control which focused on Roszaidi’s ability to exercise “rational judgment” and the complex brain functions required to execute trafficking tasks. This placed too much weight on Roszaidi’s apparent rationality in executing his decision to traffic, and it overlooked the critical anterior question of whether Roszaidi had an impaired ability to resist the urge to do whatever he needed to do in order to seek and obtain a supply of drugs. Crucially, elsewhere in his evidence, Dr Saluja unreservedly accepted that Roszaidi’s life at the material time had revolved around his need to procure drugs to feed his drug habit: at [136(b)]), [140], [142], [145] to [149] and [153].23 Dr Saluja’s evidence on the Third Limb was therefore wholly unsatisfactory, and it was clear that only Dr Rajesh’s evidence directly addressed the issues relevant to the remittal and this appeal. Dr Rajesh looked beyond the seeming rationality of Roszaidi’s decision to traffic drugs and his actions flowing from this decision, and also considered whether his decision-making processes had themselves been impaired by the specific combination of his MDD and SUD. Dr Rajesh’s reports were also better reasoned, and he was able to point to clinical literature to substantiate his opinions. His evidence in respect of the Third Limb was therefore much preferred: at [136(b)], [137], [139], [153] to [156] and [158].What influenced Roszaidi’s decision to traffic drugs at the material time?24 Roszaidi’s decision to traffic drugs for one “Is Cangeh” was significantly influenced by his need to obtain drugs for his own consumption. Indeed, his trafficking activities were his main source of drugs to feed his drug habit: at [162] and [163].25 The combination of Roszaidi’s MDD and his SUD had substantially impaired his ability to resist doing what he did. His MDD had undermined his ability to work and to support the drug habit that he had had over the course of most of his life, and subsequently led him to turn to other sources of supply, in particular by trafficking in drugs for Is Cangeh. His MDD had also aggravated his SUD, which in turn drove him to prioritise securing a supply of drugs to feed his addiction as his overriding preoccupation: at [174].26 Roszaidi’s decision to traffic drugs could not be characterised as a reasoned choice or the consequence of rational judgment, but rather was the product of a disordered mind, caused by the overriding force of his SUD when it was exacerbated by his MDD. These mental disorders impaired his ability to control his actions to the extent that his overriding preoccupation at the relevant time was procuring and consuming drugs. The element of control in relation to Roszaidi’s mental responsibility for his decision to traffic was therefore substantially impaired by the combination of his MDD and his SUD: at [177] and [183].What influenced Roszaidi’s specific act of giving the Drugs to Azidah?27 Roszaidi’s act of giving the Drugs to Azidah, which formed the subject of his drug trafficking charge, was more likely than not to have been materially influenced by his MDD and SUD, both directly and indirectly: at [187].28 With regard to the direct influence of Roszaidi’s MDD and SUD, this act was the product of his severely impaired decision-making under extreme circumstances of fear and pressure. Roszaidi’s actions which incriminated his innocent and heavily pregnant wife, and his execution of that decision, were not the acts of someone able, without substantial impairment, to exercise control over his actions (and specifically to act in accordance with what he knew to be right). His fear of being harmed by Is Cangeh if he threw the Drugs away may also have been linked to the anxiety and paranoia attributable to his MDD: at [188] to [191].29 With regard to the indirect influence of Roszaidi’s MDD and SUD, his substantial drug consumption on the day of the offence was likely to have further heightened the impairments to his decision-making processes and mental responsibility: at [192].30 In these circumstances, the more plausible and compelling characterisation of Roszaidi’s act of giving the Drugs to Azidah, viewed in its context, was that Roszaidi acted impulsively and irrationally in a moment of panic, thereby demonstrating the impairment of his decision-making. This was not a case where Roszaidi had simply underestimated the risks involved and had wilfully chosen to take those risks in order to reap a reward. In any event, the apparent rationality of taking steps to avoid being caught with the Drugs said nothing about whether Roszaidi’s decision-making process, whether in coming to the decision to traffic drugs for Is Cangeh that day or in deciding to pass the Drugs to Azidah, was in fact impaired by the combination of his MDD and SUD: at [193] to [195].31 The element of control in relation to Roszaidi’s mental responsibility for the specific act of trafficking which constituted the offence was therefore also substantially impaired by his MDD and SUD: at [196].Conclusion 32 The majority was satisfied that the combination of Roszaidi’s MDD and SUD had a real and material, and not a trivial or minimal, effect on his ability to resist the urge to procure and consume drugs, and consequently on his decision to traffic drugs as a means of obtaining those drugs, as well as on his specific act of giving the Drugs to Azidah. The majority was therefore amply satisfied on a balance of probabilities that Roszaidi’s MDD and SUD, operating together, had substantially impaired his mental responsibility for his acts in relation to the drug trafficking offence with which he was charged: at [198] and [199]. 33 As all the requirements of s 33B(3)(b) of the MDA were satisfied, the majority set aside the death penalty imposed by the Judge and re-sentenced Roszaidi to imprisonment for life under s 33B(1)(b): at [200].Decision of the minority of the Court of Appeal comprising Andrew Phang Boon Leong JCA and Steven Chong JCA (delivered by Andrew Phang Boon Leong JCA):34 The judges in the minority would have dismissed the appeal: at [202] and [299]. General observations on the expert evidence35 First, Dr Saluja’s 1st Report, which was the key report, was substantive in nature and formed the basis for Dr Rajesh’s first report (“Dr Rajesh’s 1st Report”) in which the Synergy Claim first surfaced. To the extent that Dr Saluja’s reports and/or evidence showed that Roszaidi’s volition was not sufficiently impaired, this detracted from the persuasiveness of Dr Rajesh’s Synergy Claim: at [227]. Further, Dr Rajesh’s 1st Report was not based on any interviews with Roszaidi and was rendered more than four years after Roszaidi had been charged: at [220].36 Dr Saluja’s 1st Report was relevant to s 33B(3)(b) of the MDA even though it focused on Roszaidi’s fitness to plead. One’s mental state was (and ought to be) viewed holistically as an organic whole and could not be analysed in slices. Any indications of diminished responsibility when Dr Saluja interviewed Roszaidi in 2015 would have been recorded as an observation: at [222].37 Second, mere assertion of general propositions by Dr Rajesh without reference to the specific facts as well as context was unhelpful: at [223] and [226]. 38 Third, the relative brevity of Dr Saluja’s further reports had to be seen against his substantive initial report based on his face-to-face sessions with Roszaidi shortly after he was charged, these interviews likely availing more candid responses from Roszaidi, as well as Dr Saluja’s testimony during the remittal hearing: at [220] and [224]. Whether Roszaidi’s SUD arose from one of the recognised aetiologies in s 33B(3)(b)39 It was agreed that Roszaidi’s MDD arose from an inherent cause. If the Synergy Claim was correct, his MDD and SUD would be rooted in the same inherent cause such that they, together, fell within the ambit of the aetiologies in s 33B(3)(b): at [213] and [232].40 The minority rejected the Synergy Claim: at [245]. 41 To make good the Synergy Claim, Roszaidi had to adduce evidence to establish a causal link between his MDD and his alleged escalated drug dependence (“the Causal Link”). Drug addicts experienced a natural escalation of consumption as they developed tolerance. Escalation of drug dependence per se absent a causal link between MDD and SUD, did not advance the Synergy Claim. Roszaidi failed to adduce evidence as to the degree of his drug dependence escalation after the onset of his MDD, which was necessary to establish the Causal Link: at [234].42 Roszaidi’s MDD could be traced to two bereavements he suffered in May 2015. However, he only agreed to traffic drugs for Is Cangeh in July 2015. Between May and July 2015, no evidence was offered that the escalation of his drug abuse had started with the onset of MDD in May 2015 since he only started to traffic drugs for Is Cangeh some two or three months later. Besides (and as importantly), there was no evidence as to how he was able to source for additional drugs and how he could have afforded his escalated drug abuse prior to his decision to work for Is Cangeh. Thus, neither escalation in consumption nor the Causal Link was proved: at [235].43 While the experts suggested that drugs helped Roszaidi to cope with some depressive symptoms, whether there was actual escalation in consumption would have depended on factors including, in large part, the severity of his MDD. But there was insufficient evidence on the intensity of Roszaidi’s depressive symptoms: at [236].44 The court had to examine the issue based on the state of the evidence before it, which was in large part due to the manner and stage at which Roszaidi sought to rely on s 33B, ie, at the appeal of his conviction and sentence: at [239]. Reliance on s 33B should be disclosed at first instance so that all relevant evidence may be adduced: at [221] and [242].Whether Roszaidi’s impulse control and/or rational judgment was impaired sufficiently as to substantially impair his mental responsibility under the Third Limb45 Roszaidi’s case under the Third Limb also rested on the Synergy Claim: at [267]. But even if the Synergy Claim were accepted, the Third Limb was not satisfied: at [247].46 Rationality and volitional control were inextricably linked. Rationality referred to the making of calculated and logical decisions. If an accused person’s conduct when seen in the objective circumstances demonstrated rationality, it weakened the argument that the accused acted instead out of a lack of volitional control. The stronger inference was that the accused did not, rather than could not, resist his impulses such that it could not be said that his self-control was substantially impaired: at [253]. Especially in the context of drug trafficking, which was ordinarily a highly purposive and coordinated activity, the accused should squarely address the contradiction (if any) between his apparent rationality and the alleged internal disorder: at [254].47 If the accused could have resiled from the decision to commit an offence but simply chose not to do so, his volitional impairment would not satisfy the Third Limb: at [255].  Impairment of impulse control 48 Roszaidi failed to prove that his impaired ability to control his impulse to consume drugs sufficiently influenced his decision to traffic the Drugs to his wife: at [260].Nature of Roszaidi’s SUD and MDD49 First, notwithstanding his SUD, Roszaidi appeared to have a life outside of drugs. He maintained familial relationships, engaged in social activities and was gainfully employed after his release from prison in 2014 until May 2015: at [261] to [263].50 Second, in so far as the severity of Roszaidi’s MDD was a proxy for the degree to which his SUD was aggravated, there was strictly no evidence to contradict Dr Saluja’s evidence that Roszaidi’s MDD was mild: at [271]. Not only did Roszaidi present the minimum number of symptoms needed to constitute MDD, Dr Rajesh’s evidence did not flesh out the intensity of these symptoms: at [265] and [269]. Roszaidi also disavowed any suicidal thoughts or acts: at [269]. Roszaidi’s counsel further admitted that there was no evidence of how Roszaidi’s MDD manifested besides escalated drug consumption, but that no evidence was led as to the degree of such alleged escalation: at [266]. 51 Moreover, Roszaidi previously threw away a drug consignment on his third job for Is Cangeh because he felt it was too heavy. Hence, three to four months prior to the offence, Roszaidi still had the willpower to overcome his impulse to consume drugs. This factor, when combined with the paucity of evidence on the extent to which Roszaidi’s MDD aggravated his SUD, was fatal to his case on appeal: at [272]. Roszaidi’s evidence on why he agreed to deliver drugs for Is Cangeh52 Roszaidi’s evidence that he had trafficked in drugs to satisfy his drug addiction did not take his case very far: at [275]. The transfer of the Drugs to his wife appeared to have been motivated by self-preservation (see [55] below for further details): at [276].53 As for why Roszaidi began working for Is Cangeh, in statements more contemporaneous with the offence, Roszaidi cited monetary remuneration as the reason: at [277] to [278]. As for why he agreed to follow through with the job on the day of his arrest, in his cautioned statement and testimony at trial, Roszaidi’s fear of reprisal from Is Cangeh for failing to deliver the Drugs assumed significance: at [279].54 The multitude of reasons leading Roszaidi to commit the offence and the ambiguity as to the extent to which his MDD aggravated his SUD was another reason preventing recourse to s 33B: at [280].Circumstances of the offence55 Section 33B(3)(b) had to be examined with reference to the very offence for which Roszaidi was convicted. The material circumstances suggested that Roszaidi trafficked the Drugs to Azidah with intentionality and to achieve a calculated end – self-preservation: at [282]. After collecting the drugs, Roszaidi became scared due to their weight and did not want to carry so much drugs with him while he was outside. He devised an alternative plan to offload the Drugs to Azidah for safekeeping. He told Azidah to take the Drugs up to the apartment: at [283]. Roszaidi failed to prove why his deliberate and apparently rational act was sufficiently influenced by his impaired will to resist drug consumption: at [282]. 56 While the appeal could have been disposed on the basis that Roszaidi failed to discharge his legal burden, it also appeared that Roszaidi had those moments of rationality and self-control during which he could have resiled from the intention or plan to deliver the drugs for Is Cangeh: at [285] and [295].The legislative framework of s 33B57 Parliament intended s 33B to operate in a measured and narrowly defined way so as not to undermine the strict penalty regime in the MDA: at [287]. 58 Given the differences in the nature of murder and drug trafficking, it would be quite difficult to make out diminished responsibility for the latter offence: at [291]. For murder, the offence comprised act(s) that took place within a relatively short space of time. In contrast, for drug trafficking, there was usually a series of acts that had to be committed across a span of time. Conduct that demonstrated organisation and/or evasion and/or opportunism would, in the nature of things, be the very antithesis of conduct that was generated by a lack of control. Roszaidi’s conduct lay in the province of the former: at [289]. The relevant Parliamentary debates supported this analysis: at [290] to [291]. 59 Under s 33B(3)(b), an accused would have to manifest highly unusual symptoms and/or conduct and prove that he or she was truly hindered in making rational judgments and decisions that would not result merely from reflex actions: at [293].Impairment of rational judgment60 Roszaidi’s rational judgment was not sufficiently impaired. He was thinking in a logical and organised manner at the material time. That Azidah was implicated was an unintended consequence. He had erroneously assessed the risks: at [297] to [298].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
