
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE1 December 2022Case summaryPublic Prosecutor v GED and other appeals [2022] SGHC 301Magistrate’s Appeal No. 9280 of 2021 and Magistrate’s Appeal No. 9008 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: High Court allows Prosecution’s appeals against sentence and lays down five-step sentencing framework for offence of distributing intimate image or recording under s 377BE(1) and punishable under s 377BE(3) of the Penal Code.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A five-step sentencing framework, modelled on that set out in Logachev Vladislav v Public Prosecutor [2018] 4 SLR 609, was appropriate for the offence of distributing an intimate image or recording under s 377BE(1) and punishable under s 377BE(3) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Actual Distribution Offence”): at [44].•  With regard to the offence-specific factors going towards harm at the first step of the sentencing framework, the central focus of the inquiry was on the “humiliation, alarm or distress” caused to the victim by the distribution of the intimate image or recording. This inquiry could be structured with reference to four broad categories: (a) objective aspects of harm; (b) subjective aspects of harm; (c) other related harm; and (d) other factors relevant to harm: at [47].•  With regard to the offence-specific factors going towards culpability at the first step of the sentencing framework, the inquiry could be structured with reference to three broad categories: (a) the offender’s motive for committing the offence; (b) the offender’s method of obtaining the intimate image or recording; and (c) other aspects of the offender’s culpability: at [62].•  Where an offender was charged with an Actual Distribution Offence against a primary victim, and the intimate image or recording that formed the subject of that charge also depicted a secondary victim (in respect of whom a charge was not brought), this would generally enhance the offender’s culpability for the Actual Distribution Offence, in so far as the offender knowingly or intentionally set out to cause harm to more than one person in committing the offence at hand. The fact that more than one victim was depicted in the intimate image or recording would generally also aggravate the harm caused by the offence: at [87].•  Caning would presumptively be warranted in certain situations, such as: (a) where the offender used criminal or violent means to capture images or recordings of bare skin in intimate regions of the victim’s body; and (b) where the offender widely disseminated images or recordings depicting the victim’s bare skin in such intimate regions or the victim engaging in a sexual act, and where the victim was identifiable or expressly identified: at [107].•  Applying this sentencing framework, the sentence of 12 weeks’ imprisonment imposed by the District Judge for the Actual Distribution Offence in HC/MA 9280/2021 was set aside and substituted with a sentence of 18 months’ imprisonment, and the sentence of 18 months’ imprisonment imposed by the Principal District Judge for the Actual Distribution Offence in HC/MA 9008/2022 was set aside and substituted with a sentence of 33 months’ imprisonment and two strokes of the cane: at [184].1 HC/MA 9280/2021 (“MA 9280”) and HC/MA 9008/2022/01 and HC/MA 9008/2022/02 (“MA 9008”) were appeals against the sentences imposed on two offenders, “GED” and “GEH” respectively. Both appeals involved the offence of distributing an intimate image or recording under s 377BE(1) and punishable under s 377BE(3) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”) (“the Actual Distribution Offence”).Background to MA 9280 2 GED was married to the victim (“V1”) but had moved out of their matrimonial home. He suspected that V1 was having an affair. One day, while GED was in V1’s home, he snatched her mobile phone from her and ran out of the house. Upon accessing V1’s phone, he found several intimate images and video recordings, including an image of V1 and her work supervisor (“the Supervisor”) engaging in sexual intercourse (“the Image”). V1 was fully naked and her breasts were visible, and the faces of both V1 and the Supervisor were fully visible. GED used his phone to take photographs and video recordings of these images and recordings, and also took images of text conversations between V1 and the Supervisor. 3 GED later posted the Image on his Facebook page under the “Public” setting, together with the Supervisor’s name and occupation. He described the Supervisor as a homewrecker and warned people to be aware of him. He also included photographs of the Supervisor and the images of the text conversations between V1 and the Supervisor (“the First Facebook Post”). Within eight hours, the First Facebook Post had attracted about 1,000 comments and 3,000 “likes” and had been shared about 2,000 times. Upon seeing this, GED decided to remove the First Facebook Post, and published a new post containing an edited version of the Image in which V1’s face was blurred but her breasts and the Supervisor’s face were fully visible. This second Facebook post was removed one day later.4 GED pleaded guilty to two charges: (a) one charge of theft in dwelling (“the Theft Offence”) for taking V1’s mobile phone without her permission; and (b) one charge of the Actual Distribution Offence for publishing the First Facebook Post. The District Judge (“the DJ”) sentenced GED to 12 weeks’ imprisonment for his Actual Distribution Offence and one week’s imprisonment for his Theft Offence, to run consecutively such that the aggregate sentence was 13 weeks’ imprisonment. The Prosecution appealed against this sentence.Background to MA 9008 5 At the material time, GEH and his wife (“B”) were undergoing divorce proceedings, and he suspected that she was having an affair. GEH and three other persons (“C”, “D” and “E”) went to B’s home and followed her when she boarded a car driven by the victim (“V2”). GEH, C, D and E followed V2’s car and confronted him. The parties then proceeded to a grass patch by the side of the road, where GEH and his co-offenders attacked V2 for about half an hour while E pinned V2 to the ground in a chokehold. While the attack was ongoing, GEH, D and E pulled down V2’s pants and underwear. GEH then used V2’s mobile phone to take a 55-second-long video recording both V2’s injured face and exposed penis at length while insulting him verbally (“the Video”). GEH sent the Video to more than 500 of V2’s contacts, including his colleagues, friends, neighbours and sporting teammates, over WhatsApp. He also sent a copy of the Video to E.6 GEH pleaded guilty to three charges: (a) one charge of voluntarily causing grievous hurt with common intention, together with D and E (“the VCGH Offence”); (b) one charge of the Actual Distribution Offence, for sending the Video to E and V2’s contacts; and (c) one charge of disorderly conduct on a public road with common intention (together with D and E) for shouting and using insulting language towards B despite having been told to stop behaving in a rowdy manner by police officers (“the MOA Offence”). The Principal District Judge (“the PDJ”) sentenced GEH to 18 months’ imprisonment for his Actual Distribution Offence, 18 months’ imprisonment and four strokes of the cane for his VCGH Offence, and a fine of $1,500 (in default, six days’ imprisonment) for his MOA Offence. The imprisonment terms were ordered to run consecutively. GEH and the Prosecution filed cross-appeals against the PDJ’s decision.Sentencing framework for the Actual Distribution Offence7 A five-step sentencing framework, modelled on that set out in Logachev Vladislav v Public Prosecutor [2018] 4 SLR 609, was appropriate for the Actual Distribution Offence: at [44].8 At the first step, the court would have regard to the relevant offence-specific factors and identify: (a) the level of harm caused by the offence, and (b) the level of the offender’s culpability: at [46]. 9 With regard to the offence-specific factors going towards harm, the central focus of the inquiry was on the “humiliation, alarm or distress” caused to the victim by the distribution of the intimate image or recording: at [47]. This inquiry could be structured with reference to four broad categories: a. First, the objective aspects of harm, which served as indicia of the gravity of the harm caused which could be objectively inferred from the content of the image or recording and the circumstances of its distribution. These objective aspects of harm would include the nature of the image or recording, the degree of identifiability of the victim, and the nature and extent of the distribution: at [50] to [55]. b. Second, the subjective aspects of harm. These included any particular aspects of the victim’s suffering that shed light on the degree of humiliation, alarm or distress subjectively experienced by him or her as a result of the offence. These could be either disclosed by the victim or inferred from the circumstances, and might in appropriate cases need to be corroborated by evidence: at [56].c. Third, other related harm, which could take at least two forms. The first was consequential harm other than the emotional and psychological consequences of the distribution (including loss of employment and other economic consequences), and which had a sufficient causal link to the distribution. The second form of related harm was the prior or prerequisite harm caused to the victim in the course of obtaining the intimate image or recording: at [59] and [60].d. Beyond considering these three aspects of harm, the court would consider any other factors that further aggravated those aspects of harm. This might include considerations such as the vulnerability of the victim: at [61].10 With regard to the offence-specific factors going towards culpability, this inquiry could be structured with reference to three broad categories: at [62].a. First, the offender’s motive for committing the offence. In this context, there were two considerations which warranted special note. The first was whether the offence was committed for the offender’s personal gain, which did not need to be limited to monetary gain. The second was whether the offender acted for the purpose of harming the victim, and in particular whether his actions were calculated to inflict such harm: at [63] to [66]. b. Second, the offender’s method of obtaining the intimate image or recording. The base or paradigmatic case was where the victim consented to the capturing of the image or recording and to the offender’s possession of the same, but the offender then went on to distribute the image or recording without the victim’s consent. The offender’s culpability would be aggravated in cases where the victim’s consent to the capturing of the image or recording and/or the offender’s possession of the same was also absent or vitiated: at [69] to [71].c. Third, several further considerations might shed light on the offender’s culpability, namely: the degree of planning, preparation and premeditation; the level of sophistication employed; the duration and persistence of the offending behaviour; any abuse of position; and the use of anonymity. These primarily went towards showing the offender’s commitment to offending and to evading detection. One further aspect of culpability was that evidence of cruelty on the part of the offender would be regarded as aggravating: at [75] to [81].  11 At the second and third steps of the framework, the court would identify the applicable indicative sentencing range, and thereafter the appropriate starting point within that range, based on its assessment of harm and culpability. The following sentencing matrix would be appropriate for the Actual Distribution Offence (at [102], [104] and [109):HarmCulpabilitySlightModerateSevereLowFine and/or up to 6 months’ imprisonment6–15 months’ imprisonment15–30 months’ imprisonment (with the option of caning)Medium6–15 months’ imprisonment15–30 months’ imprisonment (with the option of caning)30–45 months’ imprisonment (with the option of caning)High15–30 months’ imprisonment (with the option of caning)30–45 months’ imprisonment (with the option of caning) 45–60 months’ imprisonment (with the option of caning)12 Caning would presumptively be warranted in certain situations, such as: (a) where the offender used criminal or violent means to capture images or recordings of bare skin in intimate regions of the victim’s body; and (b) where the offender widely disseminated images or recordings depicting the victim’s bare skin in such intimate regions or the victim engaging in a sexual act, and where the victim was identifiable or expressly identified: at [107].13 At the fourth step of the framework, the court would adjust the starting point as necessary to take into account the relevant offender-specific aggravating and mitigating factors: at [110].14 The fifth step of the framework applied where the offender had been convicted of multiple charges. The court would then need to consider whether the sentences of imprisonment should run consecutively or concurrently, and whether further adjustments needed to be made to the aggregate sentence on account of the totality principle: at [115] to [117]. Decision on MA 9280 15 At the first step of the framework, this was a case of moderate harm and medium culpability: at [121]. a. With regard to harm, the harm suffered by V1 was plainly serious. The Image posted in the First Facebook Post was of a highly intrusive and overtly sexual nature; V1 was readily identifiable; and it was distributed widely, including to V1’s friends: at [122].b. With regard to culpability, GED acted out of malice, to humiliate and punish V1 for what he regarded as “morally revolting” conduct on her part, as well as to humiliate the Supervisor. However, GED had not intended to cause maximum humiliation to V1, and there was no evidence of planning or premeditation, the use of any sophisticated means or anonymity, or any demonstrable efforts on his part to keep the Image available for viewing: at [123] and [124]. 16 The applicable indicative sentencing range was 15 to 30 months’ imprisonment, with the option of caning. An appropriate starting point would be 18 months’ imprisonment, just below the mid-point of this range. It followed that the sentence of 12 weeks’ imprisonment imposed by the DJ was manifestly inadequate: at [127] and [128]. 17 At the fourth step of the framework, the relevant offender-specific factors did not warrant any adjustments to this starting point. There were two relevant aggravating factors: first, GED had committed two closely related offences which were taken into consideration for sentencing; and there was an evident lack of remorse on his part. On the other hand, GED’s early plea of guilt carried some mitigating weight because it spared V1 the trauma of having to testify in court and relive the humiliation she suffered: at [129] to [132].18 At the fifth step of the framework, the sentence for GED’s Actual Distribution Offence and the sentence of one week’s imprisonment for his Theft Offence should run consecutively, given that these were distinct offences committed on separate occasions. The aggregate sentence was therefore an imprisonment term of 18 months and one week. This did not offend the totality principle: at [135].19 The court therefore allowed the Prosecution’s appeal in MA 9280 in respect of GED’s Actual Distribution Offence and substituted the sentence of 12 weeks’ imprisonment imposed by the DJ for this offence with a sentence of 18 months’ imprisonment: at [135].Decision on MA 9008GEH’s Actual Distribution Offence20 At the first step of the framework, this was a case of moderate harm and high culpability: at [138].a. With regard to harm, the nature of the Video was highly intrusive: V2’s pants and underwear had been removed, and his exposed penis was shown for approximately five seconds. V2 was also readily identifiable, and the Video was sent by GEH from V2’s own mobile phone to over 500 of his contacts over WhatsApp (including his colleagues, friends, neighbours and sporting teammates). V2 also suffered prior or prerequisite harm in the form of the injuries inflicted on him in the course of obtaining the Video. However, given that the severity of these injuries would be taken into account by the sentence for GEH’s VCGH Offence, these were not taken into account in assessing the harm caused by his Actual Distribution Offence, to avoid double counting: at [139] and [140]. b. With regard to culpability, GEH’s motive in committing his Actual Distribution Offence was to humiliate and punish V2 for his relationship with B, and his acts appeared to have been calculated to maximise the humiliation suffered by V2. Further, GEH’s method of obtaining the Video was forceful and violent. The Video was plainly captured without V2’s consent; indeed, he had to be forcibly pinned down and his pants and underwear stripped off before it could be taken. There was also clear evidence of cruelty on GEH’s part, which substantially aggravated his culpability. While any planning and premeditation demonstrated by GEH and his co-offenders did not appear to have been directed towards the commission of his Actual Distribution Offence, and GEH did not use any sophisticated means or make any attempt to preserve his anonymity, on balance, GEH’s culpability was assessed to be high: at [143] and [149].21 The applicable indicative sentencing range was 30 to 45 months’ imprisonment, with the option of caning. The present case fell in the middle to high end of this range, and an appropriate starting point was 40 months’ imprisonment: at [150]. 22 However, at the fourth step of the framework, the sentence was reduced by four months to 36 months’ imprisonment, on account of the offender-specific factors in this case. Although the offences taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing were an aggravating factor, two mitigating factors warranted a downward adjustment of the sentence. The first was GEH’s remorse, demonstrated by his letter of apology to V2 and his offer of substantial compensation. The second was that GEH had pleaded guilty at the first instance and had co-operated fully with the authorities: at [151] to [153].23 In addition to the imprisonment term, two strokes of the cane were imposed, as the sentencing considerations of general deterrence and retribution were engaged in this case. This brought the sentence for GEH’s Actual Distribution Offence to 36 months’ imprisonment and two strokes of the cane. This was significantly higher than the sentence of 18 months’ imprisonment imposed by the PDJ, which was manifestly inadequate: at [154] and [155]. GEH’s VCGH Offence24 Having regard to the guidance laid down in Public Prosecutor v BDB [2018] 1 SLR 127 (“BDB”) and more recently in Saw Beng Chong v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGHC 175, an indicative starting point of 16 months’ imprisonment was appropriate at the first step of the BDB framework. In arriving at this indicative starting point, the court took into account the severity of V2’s injuries, including the psychological harm suffered, as well as the relevant sentencing precedents: at [157] to [168]. 25 At the second step of the BDB framework, a significant uplift of five months’ imprisonment was appropriate in the light of the serious aggravating factors, namely: the fact that the attack against V2 was undertaken by a group, and the manner and duration of the attack, which was sustained and brutal. Although the PDJ correctly took into account GEH’s guilty plea, letter of apology and offer of compensation as mitigating factors, these were far outweighed by the aggravating factors in this case. There was no reason to interfere with the PDJ’s decision to impose four strokes of the cane for this offence. Accordingly, the sentence imposed for GEH’s VCGH Offence was 21 months’ imprisonment and four strokes of the cane: at [169] to [172], [175], [177] and [178].GEH’s MOA Offence26 GEH’s appeal against the sentence imposed for his MOA Offence was wholly unmeritorious. Having regard to the relevant sentencing precedents, there was no basis to disturb the PDJ’s decision to impose a fine of $1,500 (in default, six days’ imprisonment) for this offence, which could not be said to be manifestly excessive: at [179] to [180].GEH’s aggregate sentence 27 The sentences of imprisonment for GEH’s Actual Distribution Offence and VCGH Offence should run consecutively as they violated different legally protected interests. This yielded a provisional aggregate sentence of four years and nine months’ imprisonment, six strokes of the cane and a fine of $1,500. This was on the high side, bearing in mind that GEH was a first-time offender with an otherwise clean past record and who shows promise for rehabilitation and reform. Therefore, on the basis of the totality principle, the imprisonment terms imposed for GEH’s Actual Distribution Offence and VCGH Offence were reduced by three months each. These downwards adjustments resulted in an aggregate sentence of four years and three months’ imprisonment, six strokes of the cane and a fine of $1,500. This was sufficient and proportionate to GEH’s overall criminality: at [181] to [183].Conclusion28 The court therefore allowed the Prosecution’s appeals in MA 9208 and MA 9008 to the extent stated above, and dismissed GEH’s cross-appeal in MA 9008: at [186].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
