
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 November 2022Case summaryAquarius Corporation v Haribo Asia Pacific Pte Ltd and another appeal [2022] SGHC(A) 39 Appellate Division of the High Court — Civil Appeals Nos 1 of 2022 and 2 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Judge of the Appellate Division Quentin Loh):Outcome: Appellate Division allows appeal against decision that distributor established the quantum of its alleged lost profits due to its supplier’s failure to deliver on orders. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where a defendant objects to a plaintiff’s computations of its alleged loss on the basis that the quantum has not been established by admissible evidence, it is for the plaintiff to meet that objection. There are various ways of doing so, one of which is for the plaintiff to call a factual witness to testify on the authenticity and accuracy of the source documents supporting its computations of its alleged loss. What the plaintiff cannot do is to leave the objection standing and not take any step to meet the objection (at [54]). Background to the appeal1 Haribo Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (“HAP”) is a company incorporated in Singapore. It is part of the Haribo Group, a group of companies in the business of manufacturing and selling confectionaries. Aquarius Corporation (“Aquarius”) is a company incorporated in South Korea. It is in the business of distributing food and beverage products in South Korea.2 On 23 May 2016, HAP and Aquarius entered into a distributorship agreement (the “2016 DA”) for HAP to supply confectionary products and for Aquarius to distribute the same in South Korea. In the course of the 2016 DA, several issues arose as between the parties. Amongst others, Aquarius claimed that HAP deliberately halted product deliveries and cancelled production of goods Aquarius had ordered. This resulted in seven orders placed by Aquarius between July and December 2016 (the “Orders”) being entirely unfulfilled or, if they were partially fulfilled, delayed. 3 HAP took the first step to bring their contractual relationship to an end by invoking cl 7.2 of the 2016 DA on 25 October 2016, and given the notice period defined, the last day of the contract would have been 30 April 2017. Aquarius disputed the validity of HAP’s termination notice and issued its own termination notice on 3 February 2017.4 For some time thereafter, HAP demanded that Aquarius make payment for outstanding invoices. However, its demand was not met and HAP thus instituted proceedings in the High Court to recover payment for the outstanding invoices. By way of counterclaim, Aquarius claimed that HAP breached cl 9.3 of the 2016 DA, when it delayed or failed to make product deliveries, entitling Aquarius to damages for lost profits. 5 On Aquarius’ counterclaim, the Judge found that HAP’s termination notice was legally valid and Aquarius’ claim for lost profits after 30 April 2017 failed. The Judge found that HAP was obliged by cl 9.3 of the 2016 DA to deliver the Orders and none of the defences HAP raised applied. HAP’s breach of cl 9.3 was actionable. The Judge thereby found HAP liable in damages for Aquarius’ lost profits until 30 April 2017. 6 Civil Appeal No 1 of 2022 (“CA 1”) is Aquarius’ appeal against the Judge’s decision that it is not entitled to claim for lost profits after 30 April 2017. Civil Appeal No 2 of 2022 (“CA 2”) is HAP’s appeal against the Judge’s decision that it is liable to Aquarius for lost profits until 30 April 2017. The decision of the Court7 The Court upheld the Judge’s findings that HAP’s termination notice was legally valid and that Aquarius’ claim for lost profits after 30 April 2017 failed. The Court dismissed Aquarius’ appeal in CA 1 (at [22]). 8 Moving to CA 2, the Court affirmed the Judge’s decision that a binding contract had arisen, and that HAP was obliged to deliver the Orders (at [33]). The Court saw no reason to disturb the Judge’s finding that HAP was obliged to deliver within a period of four months to the end of the month from the date on which the orders were placed (at [36] and [38]). The Court upheld the Judge’s finding that Aquarius had proved the fact of its alleged lost profits (at [49]). 9 However, the Court found that the Judge erred in failing to address HAP’s point of admissibility. Aquarius had not established the quantum of its alleged lost profits as the primary documents supporting its expert’s calculations were not properly admitted into evidence (at [50]). The documents on which Aquarius’ expert relies appear to be summaries, and in so far as the documents are the source documents themselves, they do not appear to have been produced by way of either the maker of the document or a witness of fact (at [52]). Once HAP had objected to the contents of the report of Aquarius’ expert on the basis that her computations had not been established by admissible evidence, it was for Aquarius to meet that objection. There were various ways of doing so, one of which was for Aquarius to call a factual witness to testify on the authenticity and accuracy of the source documents supporting its expert’s computations. What Aquarius could not do was to leave the objection standing and not take any step to meet HAP’s objection. Aquarius did not appear to have taken any step to meet HAP’s challenge on admissibility (at [54] and [55]). Further, Aquarius could not establish the business records exception as it did not have any evidence to show that the source documents constituted or formed part of the records of its business (at [57]). Absent properly adduced source documents to support Aquarius’ calculations on its loss of profits, the Court found that the Judge erred in accepting that Aquarius had proven the quantum of its alleged lost profits (at [59]). The appeal in CA 2 was therefore allowed and the Judge’s finding that HAP was liable to Aquarius on the counterclaim for the sum of ₩2,311,179,383 (which is approximately €1.7 million) was set aside. On Aquarius’ counterclaim, the Court awarded Aquarius nominal damages of $1,000 instead (at [60]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
