
20 April 2016 
Media Summary 
High Court
Magistrate’s Appeal No 9041 of 2015 
Chan Chun Hong v
Public Prosecutor [2016]
SGHC 75 
Background to the
application 
1 Child sex tourism has given
rise to a global human rights crisis. The cross-border nature of the problem
demands a transnational response. As part of this response, countries have
acceded to international conventions and treaties that seek to protect the
rights of children and have enacted domestic legislation targeted at deterring
the demand for child sex tourism from within their borders. Singapore followed
this path by introducing two provisions into the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev
Ed) (“the Penal Code”): s 376C which gives extra-territorial effect to the
offence of engaging in commercial sex with minors, and s 376D which separately
criminalises acts that facilitate or promote the commission of an offence under
s 376C. 
2 The subject matter of the
appeal pertained to s 376D. This was an appeal brought by the Appellant against
the decision of the District Judge sentencing the Appellant to an aggregate
imprisonment term of 56 months. The Appellant pleaded guilty to 12 charges of
which four were the focus of the appeal: one of organising a child sex tour (s
376D(1)(a)) and
three of distributing information to promote child sex tourism (s 376D(1)(c)). The District Judge
sentenced the Appellant to 36 months’ imprisonment for the s 376D(1)(a) charge, and 20 months’
imprisonment for each s 376D(1)(c)
charge. The sentences for the s 376D(1)(a)
offence and for one of the s 376D(1)(c)
charges were ordered to run consecutively. The Appellant contended that the
sentence for each of the offences was manifestly excessive, and in any case,
that the aggregate sentence too is manifestly excessive. 
Facts 
3 The Appellant first
encountered child pornography in 2009 and from December 2011 to early September
2012, exchanged child pornographic material with other Internet users by email.
For transmitting such obscene material by electronic means, a total of 135
charges were brought against the Appellant – seven were proceeded with against
the Appellant and the remaining 128 charges were taken into consideration for
the purpose of sentencing. The level of the Appellant’s involvement in trading
child pornographic material was such that it caught the attention of the United
States Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) who in turn informed the
Singapore Police Force (“SPF”). 
4 Following the FBI’s
tip-off, the SPF deployed an undercover police officer who used a moniker “Teo
Dennis” to interact with the Appellant from November 2013 to February 2014 to
carry out investigations against the Appellant. In the course of their
interactions, the Appellant shared information on places to visit overseas to
engage in child sex tourism, and his own experiences. The Appellant also
offered to organise a child sex tour for Teo Dennis and accompany him if Teo
Dennis would pay for his return air ticket to Cambodia. After Teo Dennis
transferred the sum of money to the Appellant, the Appellant purchased the air
tickets and contacted a local guide to bring them to brothels during their
trip. The proposed trip never materialised as the Appellant was arrested prior
to the trip. 
Judgment 
5 The conclusion of the High
Court (“the court”) was that save in one respect, the sentences imposed by the
District Judge were not manifestly excessive and the appeal was dismissed. The
sentence for one of the offences was reduced, but as it was to run concurrently
with two other sentences ordered to run consecutively, this did not impact the
aggregate sentence ordered by the District Judge. 
Reasons for the
judgment 
6 The court emphasised that a
strong deterrent message must be sent to all would-be offenders from
participating in the child sex trade in any way to protect vulnerable child
victims from suffering irreparable harm as a result of being trapped in the
trade. The acts of engaging in commercial sex with minors abroad and the
related offence of facilitating or promoting this contribute to such evils as
child trafficking, child pornography, physical abuse and coercion of
child-victims. These are evidently serious offences. “Sending countries” must
curb demand for child sex tourism from within their borders through legislation
and robust enforcement. The difficulties of detecting such offences call for
the courts to adjust the punishment so as to ensure that would-be offenders are
sufficiently discouraged from running the risk in the hope that they might
successfully evade arrest. 
7 Before considering the
appropriate sentence to be given, the court considered a few arguments made for
the reduction of any sentence imposed in this case. The court considered
whether entrapment was relevant as a mitigating factor in sentencing and
rejected it on the facts of the case. The key question in each case would be
the extent to which the element of entrapment can be shown to have actually
diminished the culpability of the offender. If the agent provocateur provides
nothing more than an unexceptional opportunity for the crime to be committed,
entrapment would not have mitigating value. The court concluded on the facts
that Teo Dennis had merely provided an unexceptional opportunity for the
present offences to be committed. 
8 The court affirmed that a
mental condition like paedophilia will not be a mitigating factor if it has
little bearing on the offender’s ability to appreciate the nature and
consequences of his actions, or if it has not affected the offender’s ability
to stop himself from committing the criminal act. In either of these
circumstances, the offender is capable of being deterred by punishment and
should therefore face the consequences imposed by the law. The general
understanding of paedophilia and the Appellant’s IMH Report both support the
conclusion that the Appellant’s mental condition had neither impacted his
understanding of the offence nor diminished his ability to control his
impulses. 
9 The court considered that
it was permissible for a sentencing court to have regard to relevant decisions
of foreign courts in order to discern sentencing principles and considerations.
However, the precise sentence should not be derived unthinkingly from the
decisions of foreign courts. This is because sentencing, and in particular, a
deterrent sentence such as that necessitated by the facts of the present case,
is founded on, and an expression of, important public policy considerations
which may be unique to our society. In the present context, the court concluded
that the foreign sentencing precedents were relevant because there was no local
sentencing precedent applicable to the offences before the court, and the
foreign precedents cited were enacted to give effect to similar obligations
arising under international treaties or conventions. 
10 In determining the
appropriate sentence in the case, the court drew a distinction between the
full-fledged commercial operator driven by profit and the ad-hoc offender whose
acts are opportunistic and not driven primarily by financial returns. For the
offence of organising a sex tour under s 376A(1)(a) of the Penal Code, the
court set a benchmark sentence of two years’ and six months’ imprisonment as a
starting point for an ad-hoc or opportunistic organiser who knowingly makes
travel arrangements for a prospective child tourist in circumstances such as
the present where there was no profit motive. 
11 The next stage of the
inquiry would involve the court determining whether the benchmark sentence
should be adjusted based on applicable aggravating or mitigating circumstances.
The court identified some relevant factors specific to offences under s
376A(1)(a):
(a) Whether the offence was
committed in the context of the offender being approached to do so by the
recipient;
(b) The extent to which the
offender had facilitated the proposed trip;
(c) Whether the proposed trip
has in fact taken place;
(d) The age of the victims in
the “destination country” that might be involved in the proposed trip; and
(e) The number of child
victims that might possibly be targeted in the proposed sex tour. 
12 The court found that the
Appellant did not merely arrange the bare logistics of the trip but had held
himself out as a seasoned companion who would ensure that the trip would be a
fruitful and safe venture. The Appellant had also targeted girls of a very
young age, and had engaged a local guide well-versed in the hotspots for child
sex tourism. These factors materially enhanced the personal culpability of the
Appellant, calling for a sentence higher than the starting point of two years’
and six months’ imprisonment. In these circumstances, the court did not
consider the sentence imposed by the District Judge of three years’
imprisonment as excessive. 
13 For the offence of
distributing information to promote child sex tourism, the court classified the
spectrum of offending conduct into categories of ascending levels of
seriousness:
(a) At the lowest end of the
spectrum, there is general information it he reportage provided to like-minded
individuals. A sentence not more than nine months’ imprisonment would as a
general rule be appropriate.
(b) The transmission of
detailed knowledge about specific locations or particular contacts, but
conveyed to like-minded individuals would be more serious. A starting point of
12 to 30 months’ imprisonment is appropriate.
(c) The offender’s
culpability increases sharply when he has encouraged the recipient to embark on
a venture that the recipient was not already intending to embark on. Both the
nature of the information and the effect on the initial inclinations of the
recipients can aggravate the offence and where this is the case, a sentence in
excess of 36 months’ imprisonment may be considered as a starting point.
14 At the next stage of the
inquiry, the court will consider where in the spectrum between the ad-hoc
facilitator and the commercial sex tour operator the offender falls. The court
recognised that the closer the offender is to a sophisticated and large-scale
commercial operation, the greater the case for imposing a more serious sentence
falling outside the ranges suggested. The court identified some relevant
factors specific to offences under s 376D(1)(c):
(a) How wide the reach of the
information is;
(b) The nature of the
information and the impact that it is likely to have on the recipient;
(c) Whether the information
is difficult to obtain freely from the public domain; 
(d) The extent to which the
offender provided any form of encouragement to the recipient. 
15 The court recognised that
all three charges fell within the moderate range of offending conduct, but
imposed different sentences for each of them. The court set aside the District
Judge’s sentence of 20 months’ imprisonment for the 134th charge because the
information distributed was not unavailable in the public domain, and imposed a
12 months’ imprisonment sentence instead. The court upheld the District Judge’s
sentence of 20 months’ imprisonment for the 135th charge. For the last charge
which the court viewed as the most serious amongst the three, noting that the
Appellant had sent explicit photographs of young girls. Given the severity of
the offending conduct in question, the court considered that a sentence of
around 30 months’ imprisonment would not have been out of place. However, no
appeal had been lodged by the prosecution and the court did not interfere with
the sentence imposed. 
16 Lastly, the court observed
that s 376D(1)(a) and s 376D(1)(c) did relate to the same legally protected
interest but considered that the 135th charge and the charge under s 376D(1)(a)
related to separate violations of the legal interest of preventing child sex.
The 135th charge did not relate to the organising of a child sex tour, but
concerned the encouragement of a more egregious variety of underaged sex. There
was nothing wrong in principle in ordering the sentences for these two offences
to run consecutively and the court was satisfied that this would not be disproportionate
or involve any mismatch between the overall culpability of the Appellant and
the aggregate sentence. The court thus upheld the aggregate sentence imposed by
the District Judge of 56 months’ imprisonment and dismissed the appeal. 
 
*This summary is provided
to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to
be a substitute for the reasons of the Court.

