
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 November 2022Case summaryLao Holdings NV and another v The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic [2022] SGCA(I) 9 Civil Appeal No 55 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ, Judith Prakash JCA and Robert French IJ) (judgment delivered by Robert French IJ):Outcome: CA refused to set aside arbitral awards because the tribunals had taken an interpretation of the agreed arbitral procedure that was open to them and there was no breach of natural justice.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Under Art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (the “Model Law”), as a general rule, the court would not revisit a tribunal’s construction of an agreed procedure in an arbitral agreement entered into between the parties where the construction was open on the text of the agreement. Where, however, a tribunal adopted and acted upon a construction of a term, providing for an agreed procedure, which was simply not open on any view of the text and its context, then the tribunal could not be said, on any view, to have adhered to the agreed procedure. It was open to the supervising court in such a case to determine the content of the agreed arbitral procedure: at [102] and [138].The material facts1 This was an appeal against the Singapore International Commercial Court’s (“SICC”) refusal to set aside two arbitral awards. The arbitrations, seated in Singapore, were conducted by two arbitral tribunals (the “Arbitral Tribunals”). In the arbitrations, the appellants (“Appellants”) had alleged violations by the respondent (“Respondent”) of two bilateral investment treaties. The Appellants were involved in the development of hotels, casinos and clubs in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. The alleged violations included a tax on casino revenues and audits of a hotel and casino. The Respondent was the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic. The Respondent raised the defence that the claims should not be entertained as there was evidence of bribery, corruption and embezzlement.2 Before their completion, the arbitrations were suspended pursuant to a Deed of Settlement (the “Settlement Deed”) entered into between the Appellants and the Respondent on 15 June 2014. Under the Settlement Deed the arbitrations could be reinstated in the event of a “material breach” by the Respondent. Section 34 of the Deed provided that if that occurred, neither the Appellants nor the Respondent could add new claims or evidence to the arbitrations nor seek any additional relief not already sought. 3 In the event, material breach was alleged and the arbitrations were revived. The Arbitral Tribunals concluded that the record in existence at the time of the Settlement Deed should remain “frozen” as provided in Section 34 unless they were satisfied that there were “compelling circumstances” to exceptionally admit fresh material. The Respondent was permitted by the Arbitral Tribunals to adduce new evidence, namely: (a) an award rendered in an earlier Singapore International Arbitration Centre arbitration; (b) evidence said to have supported the Respondent’s allegations of bribery, corruption and fraud against the Appellants; and (c) an accounting report in so far as it dealt with the Respondent’s allegations of bribery and corruption. 4 The Arbitral Tribunals, by their awards, dismissed the Appellants’ claims. Flowing from its allegations of bribery, corruption and fraud against the Appellants, the Respondent contended that as a matter of public policy, the Appellants were not legally entitled to maintain any of their treaty claims. The Respondent also argued that under the “clean hands” doctrine, the Appellants’ misconduct was sufficient to deny them the assistance of investor-State arbitration. The Arbitral Tribunals made four findings (the “Four Findings”) of fraud and corruption by the Appellants on the balance of probabilities, but not the more demanding “clear and convincing” standard. Based on the Four Findings, the Arbitral Tribunals found that the Appellants had dealt in bad faith with the Respondent from the outset and this continued into the arbitration proceedings. Hence, the Appellants were disentitled from any treaty relief sought. 5 The Appellants applied to set aside the awards on several grounds. This application was dismissed by the SICC. The Appellants then appealed against the SICC’s decision regarding Arts 34(2)(a)(ii) and 34(2)(a)(iv) of the Model Law. 6 There were two grounds of appeal. The first was that the Arbitral Tribunals wrongly accepted the Respondent’s argument that the mandatory prohibition in Section 34 of the Settlement Deed would be overridden by a supposed “inherent power” to circumvent Section 34. The arbitrations were said to have proceeded on that non-compliant basis, in breach of Art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the Model Law. In the second ground the Appellants alleged that the Arbitral Tribunals made several factual findings in breach of the rules of natural justice. They argued that the Arbitral Tribunals recognised that allegations of bribery and fraud had to be established to a “clear and convincing” standard, but also accepted that those same allegations, established on the lesser standard of a balance of probabilities, could result in dismissal of the Appellants’ claims under a vague, non-specific and undefined principle of “bad faith”. The Appellants alleged that the Arbitral Tribunals arrived at their conclusion without having been addressed on this line of argument. The Appellants also argued that the defence of bad faith was unpleaded. The Appellants relied upon Art 34(2)(a)(ii) of the Model Law and s 24(b) of the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed).The decision of the Court of Appeal 7 The appeal against the SICC’s decision was dismissed: at [2], [161] and [162].Breach of the parties’ agreed arbitral procedure — Art 34(2)(a)(iv)  8 As appeared from the text of Art 34(2)(a)(iv), the criteria for setting aside an award for failure to adhere to an agreed procedure required the supervising court to identify “the agreed procedure” and to determine whether the tribunal had failed to adhere to it. Where the tribunal had construed a provision of an arbitral agreement providing for an agreed procedure and its construction was contested, the anterior question arose whether that construction was beyond examination by the court: at [99] and [100].9 As a general rule, the court would not revisit a tribunal’s construction of an agreed procedure in an arbitral agreement entered into between the parties where the construction was open on the text of the agreement. Where, however, a tribunal adopted and acted upon a construction of a term, providing for an agreed procedure, which was simply not open on any view of the text and its context, then the tribunal could not be said, on any view, to have adhered to the agreed procedure. It was open to the supervising court in such a case to determine the content of the agreed arbitral procedure: at [102], [137] and [138].10 Further, the ground of non-adherence to an agreed arbitral procedure as a basis for setting aside an award under Art 34(2)(a)(iv) was not available where the agreed procedure conflicted with a provision of the Model Law from which the parties could not derogate. One such provision was Art 18, which provided that “[t]he parties shall be treated with equality and each party shall be given a full opportunity of presenting his case”: at [130].11 In this appeal, a threshold question for the application of Art 34(2)(a)(iv) was whether the Arbitral Tribunals had construed Section 34 of the Settlement Deed when they decided that they had “a residual discretion” to admit additional evidence and, if so, whether the SICC was precluded from visiting their construction: at [103].12 It would be difficult to imagine a clearer case of a debate before arbitral tribunals about the interpretation or construction of a provision of an agreement between the parties. The Arbitral Tribunals found that the preclusive operation of Section 34 did not extend to displacing entirely their powers to receive new evidence. That was a finding about the limits of the operation of the provision. In making that finding, the Arbitral Tribunals construed what the parties had agreed: at [109] and [111].13 The construction of Section 34 adopted by the Arbitral Tribunals was open having regard to the context in which Section 34 of the Settlement Deed was agreed including the applicable arbitral rules. Having adopted a construction that was open, the Arbitral Tribunals had discharged their duty of construction. There was no basis upon which to properly revisit the exercise of that arbitral function: at [138].14 Although it was superfluous having regard to the preceding conclusions, the court was of the view that the construction adopted by the Arbitral Tribunals allowing for a discretionary reception of additional evidence in limited circumstances was correct: at [139].Failure to grant the Appellants a reasonable opportunity to present their case — Art 34(2)(a)(ii)15 The Respondent had pleaded the defence of bad faith as a distinct ground for the denial of treaty relief. There was no breach of natural justice arising by reason of the Arbitral Tribunals’ findings in relation to that defence: at [158] and [159]. 16 Nor was there any breach of natural justice in relation to the standard of proof applied by the Arbitral Tribunals in reaching the findings of bad faith, upon which the Appellants had opportunity to address and did address the Arbitral Tribunals: at [159].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
