
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 November 2022Case summaryPublic Prosecutor v Poh Yuan Nie and another matter [2022] SGCA 74Criminal Reference Nos 1 and 2 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Judith Prakash):Outcome: CoA holds that for an offence of cheating where the deception of the victim involves a dishonest concealment of facts, the accused need not have the intention to cause wrongful gain or loss of property.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  For the purposes of an offence of cheating under s 415 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “PC”), where the accused is charged with committing a “dishonest concealment of facts” within the meaning of Explanation 1 to the same provision, “dishonest” does not carry the meaning of “dishonestly” under s 24 of the PC.•  There is therefore no need, when such a charge is preferred, for the Prosecution to prove that the accused intended to cause anyone to wrongfully gain property or cause anyone to wrongfully lose property.•  Instead, the meaning of the word, “dishonest”, in the phrase, “dishonest concealment of facts”, carries the plain or ordinary meaning of that word.•  The outcome of the criminal references therefore could have no effect on the applicants’ convictions.1 The present criminal references raised the interesting question of whether the offence of cheating as defined by s 415 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “PC”) requires, in a case where the deception of the victim involves a dishonest concealment of facts, the offender to have had the intention to cause wrongful loss or wrongful gain of property.2 The applicants, Ms Poh Yuan Nie (“PYN”) and Ms Poh Min, Fiona (“PMF”) were, respectively, the principal and a teacher at a private tuition centre. Along with two other teachers, they planned and executed an elaborate scheme to abet six of their students in cheating while sitting for five examination papers of the 2016 GCE ‘O’ Level Examinations. The applicants were charged with 26 counts of abetment by way of conspiracy to cheat, punishable under s 417 read with s 109 of the PC and one count of attempted conspiracy to cheat punishable under s 417 read with s 116 of the PC. The District Judge convicted PYN and PMF on the charges and sentenced them, respectively, to 48 months’ and 36 months’ imprisonment. They appealed against their convictions and sentences, but the appeal was dismissed by the General Division of the High Court. They then sought to have this court determine a question of law of public interest, which led to the present applications.The application3 CA/CM 33/2021 and CA/CM 34/2021 were, respectively, the applications of PYN and PMF for leave to refer questions of law of public interest to this court pursuant to s 397(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed). PYN sought to refer one question while PMF sought to refer three, one of which was similar to PYN’s sole question. After hearing the applications, the court granted leave to the applicants to refer one question albeit in a reframed form. The court refused leave for PMF’s other two questions to be referred.4 The reframed question (the “Question”), which became the subject of the present criminal references, reads:For the purposes of an offence of cheating under s 415 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the Penal Code”), where the accused is charged with committing a “dishonest concealment of facts” within the meaning of Explanation 1 to the same provision, must the meaning of “dishonest” be determined with reference to the definition of “dishonestly” under s 24 of the Penal Code?5 The applicants contended that the Question had to be answered in the affirmative. This implied that the applicants would only be liable for acts of deception arising from a concealment of facts that was done “dishonestly” within the meaning of the definition given to that word in s 24 read with s 23 of the PC (the “s 24 requirement”). Accordingly, their acts could only be considered to have been done dishonestly if they had intended to cause the Singapore Examinations and Assessment Board or another person wrongful gain or wrongful loss of property. On this view, the abetment charges were not made out and there would have been no legal basis for the conviction of the applicants.6 Asst Prof Benny Tan, the independent counsel, submitted that the Question should be answered in the affirmative. In his view, if the Prosecution had framed a s 415 charge which involved an allegation that the accused had acted dishonestly, the s 24 requirement must be proved. However, it is not necessary for a concealment of facts to satisfy the s 24 requirement for the accused to be convicted of an offence under s 415 of the PC. A fraudulent or intentional concealment of facts could suffice as well, if that was the Prosecution’s case.7 The applicants also, naturally, submitted that the Question should be answered in the affirmative. However, their position was that, in respect of a s 415 charge involving deception by concealment of facts, the s 24 requirement would have to be established for the accused to be held liable.8 The respondent, the Public Prosecutor (the “PP”), submitted that the Question should be answered in the negative. The PP argued that a plain or ordinary meaning of “dishonest” in the phrase, “dishonest concealment of facts” in Explanation 1 to s 415 should be adopted instead (“ordinary dishonesty”). The court’s decision9 The court was of the view that the answer to the Question was “No”. Through a purposive interpretation of s 415 using the three-step framework set out in Tan Cheng Bock v Attorney-General [2017] 2 SLR 850, the word “dishonest” in the phrase “dishonest concealment of facts” in Explanation 1 to s 415 must be interpreted as being used in the ordinary sense of the word rather than in the special sense given to it by s 24: at [15] and [16].10 It sufficed to consider four possible interpretations of “dishonest” under Explanation 1 to s 415 of the PC. First, a concealment of facts which satisfies the s 24 requirement amounts to a deception under s 415 of the PC, but other types of concealment of facts may suffice as well (the “First Interpretation”). Second, only a concealment of facts which satisfies the s 24 requirement amounts to a deception under s 415 of the PC (the “Second Interpretation”). Third, a dishonest concealment of facts is one where the character of the concealment is dishonest, in the ordinary sense of the word (the “Third Interpretation”). On this view, the adjective “dishonest” describes the quality of the act of concealment. Fourth, a dishonest concealment of facts is one which is done with a state of mind that amounts to an intention to deceive (the “Fourth Interpretation”): at [18].11 Although s 415 is found in Chapter XVII of the PC, which is titled “Offences Against Property”, the wording of the second limb of s 415 indicates that the offence extends beyond penalising offences relating only to property. The two limbs of s 415 had different requirements. Under the first, the accused must have induced the delivery or retention of property while under the second, the accused must have induced the victim to do (or omit to do) something the victim would otherwise have not done (or omitted to do) and as a result caused damage to property or body or reputation of the victim. These differences showed that the second limb is intended to apply to a wide range of harm and is not restricted to loss of property: at [22] to [25].12 Comparing the possible interpretations set out above against the purpose of s 415, it could not be the case that the Prosecution must prove the s 24 requirement where the dishonest concealment of facts relates to conduct covered by the second limb of s 415. First, such an interpretation would be contrary to the purpose of s 415. Reading the s 24 requirement into Explanation 1 to s 415 would be introduce the very requirement that the legislature had specifically omitted from the second limb and would lead to an absurd state of affairs. Relatedly, in many cases, a deception can be arbitrarily framed either as a concealment of fact or a positive action. Additionally, “Explanations” in the PC are generally intended to clarify the provision they seek to explain and are not inserted to limit the scope of the provision. The Second Interpretation must therefore be wrong: at [26] to [31].13 The First Interpretation was equally untenable as it rendered Explanation 1 to s 415 otiose. Explanation 1 would not serve to clarify s 415 if it merely states one type of concealment of facts which would attract liability under s 415 but omits to state other such types: at [32].14 The court preferred the Fourth Interpretation over the Third Interpretation. The plain meaning of “dishonest” connotes a description of an accused’s mental state when he concealed the material facts in question. It would therefore be inaccurate to describe the act itself as “dishonest”: at [33].15 The import of the legislative history of s 415 was limited, save to show that there has been a consistent expansion of the ambit of s 415. This expansive development provided some confirmation that s 415 was not intended to be restricted to instances of deception involving property, which supported the view that the Fourth Interpretation should be preferred: at [39].16 “dishonest” in Explanation 1 to s 415 did not bear the same meaning as its cognate form, “dishonestly”, under s 24 of the PC. Sections 7 and 24 of the PC did not imply that Explanation 1 to s 415 bears the meaning of “dishonestly” given by s 24. The former is an adjective and the latter is an adverb. They are different words, relating respectively to nouns and verbs. Applying s 2(2) of the Interpretation Act (Cap 1, 2002 Rev Ed), a “contrary intention” appears in s 415 such that “dishonest” should not bear the meaning of its cognate form. Section 6A of the PC, which was enacted by the 2020 amendments effected by the Criminal Law Reform Act 2019 (Act 15 of 2019) (the “2020 amendments”), expressly does not apply to “dishonestly” in s 24; this clarifies the underlying legislative intent that the s 24 requirement was not meant to be applied to cognate expressions such as “dishonest”: at [42] to [45].17 Although the charges used the cognate form of “dishonest”, “dishonestly”, the use of this cognate form did not therefore mean that the Prosecution had elected to prove the s 24 requirement. There was no reference to s 24 of the PC anywhere in the charges: at [46].18 The bare fact that the scope of s 24 of the PC had been expanded through the 2020 amendments does not definitively imply that there was a such a lacuna in the PC previously, in that ordinary dishonesty did not form part of our criminal law at all. Prior to the 2020 amendments, ordinary dishonesty was part of our law in the operation of s 415 and Explanation 1 to the same. The amendment was made out of an abundance of caution and was not intended to change the law: at [47] to [49].19 The answer to the Question was “No” and the outcome of the criminal references therefore could have no effect on the convictions of the applicants: at [50].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
