
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE31 October 2022Case summaryPunithan a/l Genasan v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 71Criminal Appeal No 12 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (Sundaresh Menon CJ, Andrew Phang JCA and Tay Yong Kwang JCA) (delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JCA):Outcome: CoA allows appeal against conviction and mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking as the Prosecution was unable to establish the charge against the appellant Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Ordinarily, the precise date and time stated in a charge are not necessarily the pivotal part of the charge. However, the same could not be said in the unique circumstances of this case where it was undisputed that the objective evidence in the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (“ICA”) travel movement records showed that the appellant’s introduction of the two couriers to each other, an essential element in the charge pertaining to common intention, could only have happened in the morning of 12 October 2011. It was incumbent on the Prosecution to establish this essential element beyond reasonable doubt.•  The couriers’ evidence was not individually or collectively consistent with each other as to the date and time of the introductory meeting. Instead, the couriers had attested positively that the said meeting took place in the afternoon or in the evening. The further evidence admitted for the appeal showed that both couriers had given statements very soon after their arrest also asserting that the introductory meeting took place in the afternoon or in the evening. At the remittal hearing before the trial Judge, the Prosecution chose not to re-call the couriers to explain those statements. As the introductory meeting was the link to sustain the charge against the appellant because the alleged common intention to traffic in drugs stemmed from that meeting, the Charge was not proved beyond reasonable doubt.Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellant faced one charge (“Charge”) under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) and s 34 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) of trafficking in not less than 28.50g of diamorphine on 28 October 2011, in furtherance of the common intention of himself, V Shanmugam a/l Veloo (“Shanmugam”) and Mohd Suief bin Ismail (“Suief”) by introducing Shanmugam to Suief at the West Coast McDonald’s carpark on 12 October 2011 (“the Alleged Introductory Meeting”) to facilitate an impending drug transaction. 2 It was not disputed that a drug transaction involving Shanmugam and Suief (the “Couriers”) took place on 28 October 2011. The charges against the Couriers related solely to the circumstances surrounding the drug transaction on 28 October 2011. The appellant was not mentioned in the charges against the Couriers. After a joint trial (the “2014 Trial”), the Couriers were convicted and Shanmugam was sentenced to life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane while Suief was sentenced to death (the “Trial Judgment on the Couriers”). The Couriers’ convictions and respective sentences were upheld on appeal (the “Appellate Judgment on the Couriers”). This appeal thus did not concern the events that took place on 28 October 2011 in relation to the Couriers. Those matters had been dealt with in the Trial Judgment on the Couriers and in the Appellate Judgment on the Couriers.3 In the course of investigations, Shanmugam identified the appellant as the mastermind behind the drug transaction that took place on 28 October 2011. The appellant was arrested in Malaysia and brought back to Singapore in 2016. The appellant was tried in 2018 (the “2018 Trial”). A Judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “trial Judge”) found that the Prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant introduced Shanmugam to Suief at West Coast McDonald’s on 12 October 2011 for the purpose of facilitating the impending drug transaction. The appellant was accordingly convicted on the Charge and sentenced to the mandatory death penalty. 4 There were discrepancies in evidence as to the date and the time of day of the Alleged Introductory Meeting at the 2014 Trial and the 2018 Trial. Prior to the substantive hearing of the appeal, the appellant filed two criminal motions for leave to adduce fresh evidence relating to, among others: the Couriers’ investigation statements made in 2011; a call trace report for Suief’s mobile phone; and travel movement records of Shanmugam provided by the ICA (collectively, the “New Evidence”). The New Evidence was allowed to be adduced for the appeal and the matter was remitted to the trial Judge to consider whether the New Evidence would affect his earlier decision in the 2018 Trial that the Alleged Introductory Meeting took place in the morning of 12 October 2011. The trial Judge held that it did not.5 The ICA travel movement records of Shanmugam from 1 August to 28 October 2011 were admitted in evidence at the 2018 Trial. These showed that, in October 2011, Shanmugam was in Singapore on 1, 12, 18, 24, 25 and 28. It was not disputed that the records showed that Shanmugam was in Singapore from 7.24am to 9.36am on 12 October 2011, having entered and later exited through the Woodlands Checkpoint. Similarly, the ICA travel movement records of the appellant from 1 August 2011 to 22 January 2016 were admitted in evidence at the 2018 Trial. These showed that, in October 2011, the appellant was in Singapore on only 11 October 2011 between 3.10pm and 10.47pm and on 12 October 2011 from 7.04am to 12.19pm. The only common date when both these men were in Singapore was 12 October 2011 and on that day, Shanmugam had exited Singapore by 9.36am and the appellant had left Singapore by 12.19pm. The Couriers’ investigation statements in 2011 were given very soon after their arrest. The statements were not in evidence at the 2018 Trial. They asserted that the Alleged Introductory Meeting took place in the afternoon or in the evening on a day sometime in October 2011.6 Based on the Charge against the appellant, the appellant’s only involvement in the drug transaction on 28 October 2011 was that he had introduced the Couriers to each other at the West Coast McDonald’s carpark on 12 October 2011. The central question was whether there was such a tripartite meeting on 12 October 2011 because that was the link alleged between the appellant and the drug transaction involving the Couriers that took place on 28 October 2011.The appellate court’s ground of decision7 Although the Charge identified only the date and the location of the Alleged Introductory Meeting, the time of day of the Alleged Introductory Meeting became pivotal in this case. In the light of the ICA travel movement records of the appellant and Shanmugam, it was clear that the Alleged Introductory Meeting could only have taken place sometime in the early part of the morning of 12 October 2011. This was because the Alleged Introductory Meeting was alleged to be a physical one held in Singapore and because the undisputed ICA travel movement records showed that there was only a specific window of 2 hours 12 minutes between 7.24am and 9.36am on 12 October 2011 when both the appellant and Shanmugam were in Singapore (at [43]–[44]).8 Ordinarily, the precise date and time stated in a charge are not necessarily the pivotal part of the charge. It is not uncommon for a charge to be framed with reference to an approximate time frame by stating that an event took place “on or about” a date or “at or about” a point in time. However, the same could not be said in the unique circumstances of this case. In their statements in 2011 and in their oral testimony, the Couriers did not allude to the possibility that the said meeting could have been in the morning (at [51]–[52]).9 The Prosecution accepted that it was incumbent on the Prosecution to establish that the Alleged Introductory Meeting involving the appellant and the Couriers took place in the morning of 12 October 2011. As the Couriers were available but not re-called at the remittal hearing before the trial Judge to explain their assertions in their 2011 investigation statements, there remained the lingering discrepancy as to the time of day of that meeting. Instead of conjecturing about whether the Couriers were untruthful in their statements or were genuinely mistaken as to the time of day of the Alleged Introductory Meeting, the Couriers could have been asked directly at the remittal hearing why they stated what they did in those statements (at [54]).10 Even though the Couriers’ evidence was consistent in other material aspects such as the location and the purpose of the Alleged Introductory Meeting, these were insufficient to prove the Charge beyond a reasonable doubt. The Couriers’ evidence was not individually or collectively consistent with each other on the date and the time of day of the Alleged Introductory Meeting. On the available evidence, the Couriers did not even suggest that the Alleged Introductory Meeting could have been in the morning. Instead, the Couriers had attested positively that the Alleged Introductory Meeting took place in the afternoon or in the evening. Therefore, there remained a reasonable doubt whether the Alleged Introductory Meeting took place in the morning of 12 October 2011. As this was the link which the Prosecution had to prove to sustain the Charge against the appellant because the alleged common intention to traffic in drugs stemmed from that meeting, the Charge not proved beyond reasonable doubt (at [56] and [58]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
