
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 October 2022Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Lun Yaodong Clarence [2022] SGHC 269 Originating Application No 3 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ, Tay Yong Kwang JCA and Woo Bih Li JAD) (Grounds of Decision delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: C3J suspends lawyer for 18 months because he purported to act as a supervising solicitor for practice trainees when he was not qualified to do so.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A practice trainee may be an employee of a law practice, but he or she was a particular type of employee. The main purpose of that employment was to provide the training necessary to imbue aspiring lawyers with the character and competencies expected of an advocate and solicitor. Once the respondent knew that neither he nor anyone else in the law practice was able to provide such supervision, it was improper and mischievous of him to insist that the trainee continue working (at [47]). In doing so, he had blatantly disregarded the interests of his clients and the trainee (at [56]).•  As a matter of law, a law firm with no solicitor qualified to be a supervising solicitor was not in a position to employ trainees and therefore client work should not have been done by trainees of the respondent’s firm at all and could not be legally done by them. This would not change even if the respondent had reviewed that work and such review could not transform such work into work that met the interests of the clients in question (at [46]).The material facts1 In July 2019, the respondent joined Foxwood LLC (“Foxwood LLC”) as counsel. Earlier that year, he had been introduced to two lawyers from Foxwood, Mr Goh Kheng Haw (“Mr Goh”) and Mr Joshua Tan Yi Shen (“Mr Tan”), by a mutual contact. He was then charged with starting and heading a Dispute Resolution Division in Foxwood. Up till then, Foxwood only had a corporate practice. At all material times, Mr Goh was the sole director identified in Foxwood’s records with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority. Mr Goh had incorporated Foxwood on 3 April 2017.2 On 7 and 11 October 2019, the respondent offered training contracts (“TCs”) to Mr Lim Teng Jie (“Mr Lim”) and Ms Trinisha Ann Sunil (“Ms Sunil”) respectively. Both Mr Lim and Ms Sunil were interviewed by the respondent. Their TCs were also signed by the respondent as “Head of Dispute Resolution” on behalf of Foxwood.3 The respondent admitted that when he began supervising Mr Lim and Ms Sunil, he was not qualified to act as their supervising solicitor because he had not held a valid practising certificate for at least five years in the preceding period of seven years. He also accepted that he had therefore breached r 18(1)(b) of the Legal Profession (Admission) Rules 2011 (“the Admission Rules”).4 Mr Lim commenced his TC with Foxwood on 16 December 2019. On that date, the respondent had only held a practising certificate for 2 years, 10 months and 16 days in the preceding seven years. Mr Lim was employed by Foxwood until 30 January 2020. Throughout these six or more weeks, he had been working on client matters for the respondent.5 Ms Sunil commenced her TC on 2 January 2020. On that date, the respondent had only held a practising certificate for 2 years, 11 months and 3 days in the preceding seven years. For reasons unconnected to the respondent’s suitability as a supervising solicitor, she left Foxwood on 6 January 2020. She paid salary in lieu of notice to Foxwood in order to terminate her employment with immediate effect. On 5 and 9 January 2020, the respondent informed Ms Sunil to make this payment. She did so on or around 11 January 2020. 6 The respondent claimed that he first discovered his breach of r 18(1)(b) of the Admission Rules on 6 January 2020. Before this, he failed to conduct any checks on the regulatory requirements for becoming a supervising solicitor. Thereafter, he spoke to Mr Goh and Mr Tan about the issue and learnt, by 7 January 2020, that no one else in Foxwood was eligible to act as Mr Lim’s supervising solicitor. 7 On 14 January 2020, the respondent claimed to have presented several options to Mr Lim, which included joining another law practice, Vision Law LLC, as a practice trainee. 8 Mr Lim eventually secured a new TC with Wee Swee Teow LLP and resigned from Foxwood on 30 January 2020. However, later on, in his application to be admitted as an advocate and solicitor, Mr Lim had to apply for an abridgement of time to file certain papers in order to participate in the mass call on 26 August 2020.9 On 27 August 2020, the applicant referred a complaint regarding the respondent to an Inquiry Committee (“IC”) convened by the Law Society of Singapore (“Law Society”). The IC found that no cause of sufficient gravity existed. Nevertheless, the Council of the Law Society decided that there should be a formal investigation and requested the Chief Justice to appoint a disciplinary tribunal (“DT”). 10 In its report dated 22 March 2022, the DT determined that cause of sufficient gravity existed in relation to three out of the five charges framed by the applicant. The 2nd charge (“2nd Charge”) concerned the breach of r 18(1)(b) of the Admission Rules and captured the gravamen of the respondent’s misconduct. 11 In C3J/OA 3/2022, the applicant applied for the respondent to be suspended from practice for not more than a year.The decision of the Court of Three Judges12 The court found that due cause was made out in respect of the 2nd Charge and suspended the respondent from practice for 18 months (at [44], [75] and [97]).Due cause was shown in respect of the 2nd Charge: the breach of r 18(1)(b) of the Admission Rules warranted disciplinary action 13 The respondent’s conduct affected, on two levels, the public for whose protection the rules on training and qualification of lawyers existed (at [44]). 14 At one level, a trainee had performed work for the respondent’s clients for more than six weeks without due supervision. This state of affairs was plainly unfair and prejudicial to the respondent’s clients. They were entitled to legal advice and representation from qualified lawyers who, if at all, were assisted by trainees who were properly supervised by an eligible supervising solicitor (at [45]). The respondent’s clients were denied the benefit of the rules implemented to safeguard the quality of supervision provided to trainees, and ultimately to protect and uphold the quality of legal services dispensed to the clients (at [50]).15 As a matter of law, client work should not have been done by trainees at all and could not be legally done by them. This would not change even if the respondent had reviewed that work and such review could not transform such work into work that met the interests of the clients in question (at [46]).16 The respondent’s breach also affected the public by compromising the training of lawyers. A practice trainee may be an employee of a law practice, but he or she was a particular type of employee. The main purpose of that employment was to provide the training necessary to imbue aspiring lawyers with the character and competencies expected of an advocate and solicitor. Once the respondent knew that neither he nor anyone else in the law practice was able to provide such supervision, it was improper and mischievous of him to insist that the trainee continue working (at [46] and [47]).17 The respondent’s misconduct also warranted disciplinary action because it threatened confidence in the legal profession’s integrity, competence and diligence (at [52]). Among other things, his misconduct suggested that rules which served critical purposes were not in fact viewed and applied with adequate rigour and commitment (at [54]).18 The respondent demonstrated a gross degree of negligence in failing to conduct any checks on the regulatory requirements for becoming a supervising solicitor prior to 6 January 2020 (at [55]). This was even more reprehensible considering that sometime before that, he had appreciated that he could not become a director in Foxwood because he lacked sufficient years of practice with a Singapore law practice (at [57]). 19 After discovering by 7 January 2020 that no one in Foxwood was qualified to act as Mr Lim’s supervising solicitor, he should have terminated Mr Lim’s TC immediately for the benefit of Mr Lim and the respondent’s clients. No such thing was done (at [56]).20 That there may have been other stakeholders who played a part in detecting breaches of the Admission Rules did not absolve the respondent of his own failures. Each advocate and solicitor bore personal responsibility to ensure that the applicable rules of practice were strictly adhered to in all areas of his practice. In addition, the fact that there were other stakeholders to ascertain the completion of satisfactory training did not in any way address the harm to trainees who undergo training without knowing that the solicitor supervising them is not qualified; or the harm to clients who were at the receiving end of their work (at [70]).21 Further, the respondent’s attempts to shift the blame to Mr Goh signalled a lack of remorse (at [71]).22 For the reasons above, due cause was found in respect of the 2nd Charge (at [75]). It was not clear what the 1st and 3rd Charges added to the 2nd Charge. The 1st Charge seemed to be a form of secondary or vicarious liability which was unnecessary to invoke in a case like the present where the primary liability was not contested (at [86]). And the 3rd Charge was based on the same misconduct as the 2nd Charge (at [87]). 23 In any event, in respect of the 1st Charge, the applicant failed to establish one of its elements – that the respondent formed part of Foxwood’s management because he was a de facto director. If Foxwood had fulfilled its obligation to notify the Law Society of the members of its management under r 35(2) of the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 (2010 Rev Ed) (“PCR”) (“r 35(2) notification”), pursuant to r 35(8)(b), the management could only comprise lawyers named in the r 35(2) notification. On the other hand, if no notification under r 35(2) had been made, then “all the partners or directors of the law practice” would be deemed to form part of management [emphasis added in bold italics] (r 35(8)(c) PCR). Thus, it was only under r 35(8)(c), if at all, that de facto directors or partners may form part of the law practice’s management (at [79]). However, there was no evidence as to whether either r 35(8)(b) or r 35(8)(c) of the PCR applied in this case (at [82] and [84]). As such, r 35(8)(c) could not be engaged to deem the respondent to be treated as a member of Foxwood’s management (at [85]).24 Accordingly, the 1st and 3rd Charges did not factor into the decision on the appropriate sentence (at [85] and [87]).The appropriate sanction for the offence in the 2nd Charge was an 18-month suspension25 This was not a case in which striking off the roll was warranted (at [91] and [92]). However, a suspension was more appropriate than a monetary penalty because of several aggravating factors. First, the respondent’s culpability was moderately high due to his abject failure to check the regulatory requirements for acting as a supervising solicitor. Second, his insistence that Mr Lim continue working even after discovering that there was no eligible supervising solicitor in Foxwood indicated a blatant disregard for the interests of his clients and also of Mr Lim. Third, the respondent caused real harm to his clients and to Mr Lim. Fourth, the respondent had not shown remorse for his actions (at [93]).26 An 18-month suspension adequately reflected the gravity of the aforesaid aggravating factors (at [97]–[100]). It also accounted for the relevant mitigating factors in this case: namely, that this was the respondent’s first disciplinary proceeding and he was unlikely to re-offend (at [101]). That said, the respondent should appreciate that the suspension was lenient because the DT had erred in two respects, and this had not been appealed by the applicant (at [102]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
