
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27 October 2022Case summaryMa Binxiang v Hainan Hui Bang Construction Investment Group Ltd [2022] SGHC(A) 27 Civil Appeal No 20 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (comprising Woo Bih Li JAD, Quentin Loh JAD and Hoo Sheau Peng J) (judgment delivered by Woo Bih Li JAD):Outcome: AD rejects the existence of an oral investment agreement and sets aside the trial judge’s order for the appellant to return to the respondent moneys amounting to more than S$1,784,350.The material facts1 The appellant, Ma Binxiang (“Mr Ma”), was a PRC national. From October 2010 to March 2018, Mr Ma was an employee of Weiye Holdings Limited (“Weiye”), a company incorporated in Singapore which was principally based in the PRC. The respondent was Hainan Hui Bang Construction Investment Group Ltd (“HHBC”), a company incorporated in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”).2 The dispute revolved around S$1,784,350 (the “Sum”) that HHBC allegedly caused certain intermediaries (the “Intermediaries”) to transfer to Mr Ma between March to May 2015. HHBC claimed that one Mr Li Keyi (“Mr Li”), on behalf of HHBC, had entered into an oral “Investment Agreement” with Mr Ma. Under this agreement, Mr Ma was to use the Sum to invest in stocks in Singapore and/or Hong Kong on behalf of HHBC. HHBC claimed to have entered into loan agreements with the Intermediaries to procure the transfer of the Sum to Mr Ma. This was allegedly at an interest rate of 12% per annum. According to HHBC, Mr Ma used three bank and/or securities accounts to manage the investments, which shall be referred to collectively as the “Accounts”.3 On the other hand, Mr Ma alleged that the Sum was transferred to him pursuant to a different oral agreement formed earlier in December 2014 between him and one Mr Zhang Wei (“Mr Zhang”). This latter oral agreement was referred to as “Zhang Wei’s Arrangement”. At the material time, Mr Zhang was the chairman of Weiye’s board of directors and HHBC’s “Supervisor” (who exercised supervisory functions over a company’s directors and senior management).4 Mr Ma alleged that under Zhang Wei’s Arrangement, Mr Zhang was to pay him a single lump sum of RMB9m in exchange for providing investment consultancy and management services over three years. 5 According to HHBC, between January and March 2018, it discovered that Mr Ma was being investigated by Weiye. HHBC tasked Mr Li with obtaining a written document from Mr Ma to attest to the existence of the Investment Agreement and Mr Ma’s obligation to return the Sum and any “Investment Returns” derived therefrom.6 The Declaration, dated 15 March 2018, stated as follows: I, [Mr Ma,] hereby declare that all the cash deposits and stocks in [the Accounts] are owned by [HHBC]. I have no ownership rights and disposal rights to all the assets in the abovementioned accounts. Instead, [HHBC] has all ownership rights and disposal rights to all the assets in the abovementioned accounts. The undersigned shall voluntarily cooperate with [HHBC] in completing other operations such as the realization of the accounts, transfer etc.7 Mr Ma’s account was that the Declaration had been signed pursuant to a third oral agreement formed between him and HHBC in or around March 2018, known as the “Asset Exchange Agreement”. Mr Ma claimed that Mr Zhang had requested him to lend the funds in the Accounts to Weiye. In exchange, an equivalent sum in RMB would be transferred to Mr Ma’s personal bank account in the PRC. Mr Ma would also be reimbursed for the entirety of his income tax incurred in the PRC as a result of the assets exchanged. 8 Mr Ma refused to return the Sum and Investment Returns to HHBC. HHBC brought a claim to recover these moneys under the Investment Agreement. HHBC’s claim was allowed by the Judge, while Mr Ma’s counterclaim for breach of the Asset Exchange Agreement was dismissed. Mr Ma appealed the entirety of the Judge’s decision. The decision of the court9 The court allowed the appeal in part. It overturned the Judge’s finding that the Investment Agreement was proved and upheld the Judge’s finding that the Asset Exchange Agreement (and, for that matter, Zhang Wei’s Arrangement) was not proved (at [34], [42], [82] and [102]). The court set aside the Judge’s order for Mr Ma to return the Sum, Investment Returns and money paid under the alleged Investment Agreement in reimbursement of his personal income taxes and related orders (at [102] and [103]).Zhang Wei’s Arrangement and the Asset Exchange Agreement were not proved10 With regard to Zhang Wei’s Arrangement, the documentary evidence did not support its existence. Thus, the Judge was right to find that it had not been proved (at [33] and [34]).11 As for the Asset Exchange Agreement, it made no commercial sense. HHBC would have incurred a significant premium (viz, RMB1,189,071.74 of Mr Ma’s personal income tax arising in respect of the Accounts) simply to, in effect, remit money out of the PRC (at [39]).12 The Asset Exchange Agreement also appeared to be contradicted by the Declaration. The Declaration did not record any obligation on HHBC’s part to pay Mr Ma for the assets in the Accounts which he had ceded control of to Mr Zhang or Weiye. The Declaration only disclosed an obligation or acknowledgement on Mr Ma’s part and none from HHBC (at [40]). 13 As such, the Judge did not err in rejecting the existence of the Asset Exchange Agreement (at [42]).The oral Investment Agreement was not proved 14 The Judge’s approach to applying the civil standard of proof was unclear. It could not be determined if he had assumed that he had to find that either of the allegations regarding the Investment Agreement or Zhang Wei’s Arrangement was established (ie, the binary approach), or if he proceeded on the basis that he could also find that neither had been proved (at [45]). 15 The binary approach was inconsistent with the requirement for the claimant to prove his case on the balance of probabilities. A trier of fact was not bound to prefer one of the parties’ assertions. A third alternative was to find that the claimant failed to discharge his burden of proof (at [46]). 16 In these circumstances, the Judge’s findings invited even closer scrutiny than would ordinarily be the case (at [49]).17 The Investment Agreement had not been proved for the following reasons, among others.18 First, HHBC’s omission to confirm with Mr Ma his expected rate of return on the investments to be made militated against the existence of the Investment Agreement. This agreement would only have been profitable for HHBC if Mr Ma could promise a return on investment exceeding 12% per annum, which was the rate at which HHBC had allegedly borrowed the Sum from the Intermediaries (at [60]). 19 Separately, there was an absence of any contemporary document between the Intermediaries and HHBC recording the fact of the loans and the terms thereof, including the rate of interest that HHBC was to pay the Intermediaries (at [61]). The lack of evidence on the interest rate, as well as on any other term of the loans, cast doubt on Mr Li’s explanation that the moneys transferred by the Intermediaries to one of Mr Ma’s Accounts constituted loans by them to HHBC. This in turn affected the credibility of the existence of the Investment Agreement, the viability of which depended on HHBC obtaining liquidity from the Intermediaries (at [64]).20 Second, the absence of details of Mr Ma’s remuneration under the Investment Agreement weighed against the existence of the agreement. Three to four years was a long time to be doing work for HHBC without immediate or ongoing remuneration (at [66]). Mr Li, HHBC’s only factual witness who had first-hand knowledge of the alleged formation of the Investment Agreement in 2015, also equivocated over whether parties had any implicit understanding as to the rate of Mr Ma’s remuneration. At one point, he suggested that a certain industry rate of remuneration would apply. However, he eventually conceded that Mr Ma had no idea how much he was going to be remunerated (at [67]).21 That HHBC only pleaded that the parties had some understanding as to Mr Ma’s remuneration in Further and Better particulars, filed some six months after the original Statement of Claim, also suggested that Mr Li was making up the terms of the Investment Agreement as he went along (at [69]).22 Third, Mr Li’s evidence on when the alleged Investment Agreement had been formed changed from time to time. These inconsistencies undermined his credibility (at [70]).23 Fourth, there was no contemporaneous evidence between Mr Ma and Mr Li relating to the Investment Agreement or internal evidence within HHBC about it (at [71]). 24 Fifth, to prove its version of events, HHBC relied on certain transfer notices from each of the Intermediaries confirming that it/he had transferred the requested sums to one of Mr Ma’s Accounts. However, the transfer notices had limited probative value because they did not allude to the Investment Agreement. They did not establish that the Intermediaries had transferred the Sum to Mr Ma under loans taken out by HHBC or that the purpose of these transfers was to give effect to the Investment Agreement (at [79]).25 Finally, the Declaration was deficient as it failed to refer to the Investment Agreement. It was not the case that parties had not thought to mention the agreement. Mr Li testified that the first of two reasons for which HHBC wanted the Declaration was to record the existence of the Investment Agreement (at [80]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
