
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE26 October 2022Case summaryAn Guang Shipping Pte Ltd (under judicial management) and others v Ocean Tankers (Pte) Ltd (in liquidation) [2022] SGCA 69Civil Appeal No 56 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against High Court’s decision on the application of the judicial management expenses principle to claims involving retention and use of property by company’s judicial managers. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Expenses incurred by a company’s judicial managers in relation to the retention and continued use of property under pre-judicial management contracts would fall within the ambit of the judicial management expenses principle (“the Principle”), so as to be accorded priority over the company’s other unsecured debts, if this was for the benefit of the estate. Whether the property was retained and used for the benefit of the estate would depend on the purpose of the judicial managers in retaining possession of such property, which was to be assessed objectively based on their conduct. Determining whether the Principle applied in a given case was necessarily a highly fact-sensitive inquiry, the answer to which would turn on the precise facts and all the circumstances of each case: at [48] and [52]. •  The court expressed tentative views on the question of whether and how the position of interim judicial managers should differ from that of judicial managers with regard to the application of the Principle. The Principle applied in principle to both interim judicial managers and judicial managers, and the central question in both contexts was whether the property was retained for the benefit of the estate. However, in ascertaining whether an interim judicial manager had in fact retained property for the benefit of the estate in a given case, the purpose, powers and position of interim judicial managers ought to be borne in mind: at [56], [57], [64] and [66].•  The “relative approach”, which required a link to be established between ancillary costs claimed and the use of the property in the period of use, should be preferred to the “accruals approach”, under which any liability which accrued while the property in question was being beneficially retained would attract the Principle: at [118] to [121]. Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellants were 40 vessel-owning subsidiaries of Xihe Holdings (Pte) Ltd (“the XH Companies”), while the respondent was Ocean Tankers (Pte) Ltd (“OTPL”). Both the XH Companies and OTPL were in judicial management and were represented by their judicial managers (“the XH JMs” and “the OTPL JMs” respectively).2 Prior to being placed in interim judicial management, OTPL had entered into various bareboat charters with the XH Companies, under which the XH Companies chartered their vessels to OTPL. Subsequently, after both OTPL and the XH Companies were placed in judicial management, a dispute arose between the parties as to whether the XH Companies’ claims against OTPL under the bareboat charters (for charterhire and various costs incurred in relation to the vessels) fell within the scope of the judicial management expenses principle (“the Principle”) so as to enjoy priority in OTPL’s judicial management.  3 The OTPL JMs sought the court’s directions regarding the XH Companies’ claims arising out of OTPL’s bareboat charters of 76 vessels owned by the XH Companies. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) held that the Principle would generally not apply to the XH Companies’ claims as the OTPL JMs had not retained the vessels for the benefit of OTPL’s estate, subject to certain exceptions for several categories of vessels that had been used for various purposes. The XH Companies appealed against the Judge’s decision, in respect of the period before the OTPL JMs had issued notices to the XH Companies electing not to adopt the bareboat charters in respect of most of the vessels in issue.Decision on appeal4 Expenses incurred by a company’s judicial managers in relation to the retention and continued use of property under pre-judicial management contracts would fall within the ambit of the Principle if this was for the benefit of the estate. The critical question was therefore whether the property was retained and used “for the benefit of” the estate. This would depend on the purpose of the judicial managers in retaining possession of such property, which was to be assessed objectively based on their conduct. Determining whether the Principle applied in a given case was necessarily a highly fact-sensitive inquiry, the answer to which would turn on the precise facts as well as all the circumstances of each case: at [48] and [52].5 Although the question of whether and how the position of interim judicial managers should differ from that of judicial managers with regard to the application of the Principle did not arise for determination in this appeal, the court expressed its tentative views on the matter. The starting point was that the Principle applied in principle to both interim judicial managers and judicial managers, and the central question in both contexts was whether the property was retained for the benefit of the estate. However, in ascertaining whether an interim judicial manager had in fact retained property for the benefit of the estate, it had to be borne in mind that the position of an interim judicial manager differed from that of a judicial manager because of the nature of this appointment. Given that the overarching aim of interim judicial management was essentially protective, an interim judicial manager might rightly be cautious about taking irrevocable steps to dispose of property that might later be important for the company’s business. The powers of an interim judicial manager (such as in relation to disclaiming onerous property) were also generally much more limited: at [56], [57] and [66].6 The Judge did not err in inferring from the material before him that the OTPL JMs generally had not retained the vessels for the benefit of OTPL’s estate: at [3]. a. For the vessels in respect of which notices of termination had been issued by the XH Companies and accepted by the OTPL JMs, the evidence did not support the XH Companies’ position that the OTPL JMs had withheld the redelivery of the vessels as commercial leverage to secure ship management contracts with the XH Companies, or to secure the full payment of the cost of bunkers “remaining on board”, for the benefit of OTPL’s estate. Based on the available and relevant evidence, the central thread running through the OTPL JMs’ conduct from the outset was their desire to redeliver the vessels to the XH Companies: at [91] and [94].b. The OTPL JMs’ marketing of vessels for hire was not incompatible with the OTPL JMs’ desire to redeliver the vessels as a first resort, and – when viewed in the context of all of the parties’ dealings in the present case – did not support an inference that the OTPL JMs had intended to retain these vessels for the benefit of OTPL’s estate. The OTPL JMs had consistently maintained their general position that they wished to terminate the bareboat charters and redeliver the vessels to the XH Companies as they were generally of no benefit to OTPL. Until redelivery could be effected, however, it was sensible for the OTPL JMs to continue marketing these vessels as this might generate some income for OTPL in the meantime, instead of simply doing nothing. Taking this step did not necessarily mean that the OTPL JMs had retained the vessels for the benefit of OTPL’s estate: at [98], [100] and [104].7 For the vessels which the OTPL JMs deployed on sub-charters, the Judge did not err in holding that the Principle would not apply to periods of inactivity before and between redeployments of the vessels on sub-charters. The evidence supported the Judge’s inference that the OTPL JMs had not intended to retain these vessels generally for the benefit of OTPL’s estate. The exception to this was where the vessels were actually deployed on sub-charters and thereby generated some income for OTPL, as this would incontrovertibly have amounted to use for the benefit of OTPL’s estate. The Principle should therefore apply only to the specific periods of actual use of these vessels: at [110], [112] and [114].8 The Judge also did not err in requiring the XH Companies to prove that their ancillary claims for repair costs were linked to the period that these vessels were retained by the OTPL JMs for the benefit of OTPL’s estate. This “relative approach” should be preferred to the “accruals approach”, under which any liability which accrued while the property in question was being beneficially retained would attract the Principle. There was scant support in the authorities relied on by the XH Companies that the accruals approach should be followed. Further, the relative approach was preferable as a matter of principle as it cohered with the nature and rationale of the Principle, which was an equitable principle developed to permit pre-judicial management expenses incurred for the benefit of the estate to be treated as though they were judicial management expenses for priority purposes. It was also more consistent with the focus of the Principle, which was on the purpose for which expenses are incurred (and whether this was for the benefit of the estate), and not merely on the time at which these expenses were incurred. Applying the relative approach in the present case, the XH Companies had not shown how the Judge erred in excluding the claimed repair costs from the scope of the Principle: at [118] to [123].9 The XH Companies’ appeal against the Judge’s decision was therefore dismissed: at [124].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
