
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE19 October 2022Case summaryMuhamad Azmi bin Kamil v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 68Court of Appeal – Criminal Appeal No 10 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):  Outcome: CoA dismissed the appeal. Pertinent and significant point of the judgment:•  The court has broad discretion under s 238A of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 to dispose of any matter without oral hearings, unless oral evidence is expected to be given. This is to expedite the court’s processes. The court exercising such discretion will take into account the individual circumstances of the case, such as the nature and complexity of the case, having due regard to the appellant’s right to be heard: at [17]–[19].•  The disparity in sentencing was a consequence arising from the exercise of prosecutorial discretion. In the absence of any suggestion that the prosecutorial discretion was improperly exercised, or how the appellant and another co-accused who was charged for a lesser offence were similarly situated such that any differential treatment was unjustified, the parity principle was not engaged: at [27].Background to the appeal1 The appellant, Muhamad Azmi bin Kamil, pleaded guilty to and was convicted of one charge one charge of trafficking in not less than 249.99 grams of methamphetamine (the “Methamphetamine Charge”), which is an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) and punishable under s 33(1) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). Another charge of trafficking in cannabis was taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing (the “TIC Charge”).2 Before the Judge below, the appellant admitted to the Agreed Statement of Facts without qualification when he pleaded guilty. 3 The appellant drove the car on which the drugs were found (the “Car”). His role was that of a courier for one Ahmad Ashikin bin Ahmad Sulaiman (“Ahmad”), who is a 36-year-old male Singaporean and a Malaysia-based supplier who supplied drugs to his customers in Singapore.   4 On 2 May 2017, at about 10.30pm at the Woodlands Checkpoint, the Checkpoint Inspector SSgt Zulfadhli Mazli (“SSgt Zulfadhli”) stopped the appellant who was driving the Car. SSgt Zulfadhli observed that there was a box of “Daia” washing powder (the “Daia Washing Powder Box”) amongst multiple “Giant” plastic bags containing grocery items. Controlled drugs were found in the grocery boxes, including (a) two blocks of vegetable matter; (b) one packet of crystalline substance found to contain not less than 677.5g of methamphetamine; and (c) one packet of crystalline substance found to contain not less than 627.6g of methamphetamine (“the Drugs”). The appellant knew that he was delivering the Drugs to Ahmad’s customers, Adeeb and Fazri, who had ordered drugs from Ahmad on multiple occasions in 2017. On 12 October 2017, Ahmad was separately arrested in Singapore.5 The Judge below imposed an overall sentence of 25 years’ imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane. Based on the weight of the drugs in the Methamphetamine Charge, the appropriate starting sentence should be 29 years’ imprisonment. The Judge took into account the fact that the appellant’s culpability was limited to that of a courier, and that there were mitigating factors such as his plea of guilt and extensive cooperation with the authorities. The only aggravating factor was the TIC Charge. The Judge therefore adjusted the sentence downwards to 25 years’ imprisonment, to be backdated to the date of his arrest on 2 May 2017.6 The appellant appealed against the sentence on the basis that it was manifestly excessive. The starting sentence should have been 27 years’ imprisonment. Given all the mitigating factors such as his low culpability as a courier, and his plea of guilt and extensive assistance, there should be a downward adjustment of six years. In contrast, Ahmad who was the supplier of the Drugs was sentenced to 22 years’ imprisonment.The decision of the Court 7 The court first considered whether it could dispose of the matter without oral hearings under s 238A of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (“CPC”), as s 238A entered into force on 1 April 2022, after the present appeal was filed but before the appeal was heard. The court found that it had such broad discretion under s 238A to dispose of a criminal appeal without an oral hearing. This is in line with the Parliament’s intent to expedite court processes: at [17], [18]. 8 The court’s discretion to dispose of any matter without an oral hearing ultimately depends on the circumstances of each case, having due regard to the party’s right to be heard: at [19]. 9 The court dismissed the appeal on sentence, as the sentence could not be said to be manifestly excessive. The Judge had rightly identified the indicative starting sentence to be between 26 and 29 years based on the weight of the drugs in the Methamphetamine Charge. This was in line with the sentencing framework in Adri Anton Kalangie v Public Prosecutor [2018] 2 SLR 557. The Judge had also rightly taken into account the aggravating and mitigating factors in adjusting the sentence downwards to 25 years’ imprisonment. The court observed that this was in fact below the lower end of the indicative starting range of 26 and 29 years’ imprisonment: at [21], [22].10 The appellant compared the sentence to that received by Ahmad, who pleaded guilty to a lesser charge. The court held that the parity principle was not engaged. The disparity in sentencing here was a consequence arising from the exercise of prosecutorial discretion. Moreover, the appellant knew, at the time of his plea of guilt, that Ahmad had pleaded guilty to a lesser charge. In the absence of any suggestion that the prosecutorial discretion was improperly exercised, or how Ahmad and the appellant were similarly situated such that any differential treatment was unjustified, the parity principle was not engaged: at [27].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
