
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE18 October 2022Case summaryPublic Prosecutor v Azlin bte Arujunah and other appeals [2022] SGCA 67Criminal Appeals No. 17 and 24 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA sentences Azlin binte Arujunah to life imprisonment for committing the murder of her young son by acting with her husband, Ridzuan bin Mega Abdul Rahman (“Ridzuan”) to inflict severe scald injuries on the deceased. CoA sentences Ridzuan bin Mega Abdul Rahman to an aggregate sentence of life imprisonment for committing various acts of abuse against the deceased.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  When considering if the death penalty should be imposed on an offender for committing murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed), the key inquiry was whether the offender acted in a way that exhibited a “blatant disregard for human life”. The focus was on the appellant’s knowledge and state of mind at the relevant time, and the appellant’s awareness of the possibility of fatal consequences. When the relevant state of knowledge fell short of an intention to cause death, there should minimally be a finding that the accused person was either alive to the possibility of death and nonetheless proceeded to act as she did, or that she was utterly indifferent to whether death might ensue. This was what was encapsulated by a blatant disregard for life: at [20] and [21].•  While cruelty or a display of inhumane treatment is a relevant factor, the court should not be distracted by the gruesomeness of the crime or its scene in determining whether the death penalty should be imposed. Rather, it must consider all the circumstances of the case to determine whether the offender has acted in a way which exhibits such a blatant disregard for human life as would outrage the feelings of the community: at [24].Background to the appeal and material facts1 This decision followed the Court of Appeal’s earlier judgment in Public Prosecutor v Azlin bte Arujunah and other appeals [2022] SGCA 52 (“CA Judgment”), where the Court of Appeal allowed the Prosecution’s appeal in CA/CCA 17/2020 (“CCA 17”) and convicted Azlin binte Arujunah (“Azlin”) of the murder, under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”), of her young son (the “Deceased”). The death of the Deceased was caused by a cumulative scald injury (“Cumulative Scald Injury”) that was inflicted on the Deceased by hot water (meaning water that was heated to a temperature above 70℃) being splashed or poured on him. The relevant acts were done either by Azlin herself or by Azlin’s husband, Ridzuan bin Mega Abdul Rahman (“Ridzuan”), in furtherance of their common intention, on four separate occasions that occurred over the course of a week from 15 to 22 October 2016. These scalding incidents shall be referred to as Incidents 1 to 4 respectively, and the charge on which Azlin was convicted shall be referred to as the “alternative s 300(c) charge”. 2 In the CA Judgment, the Court of Appeal also allowed the Prosecution’s appeal in CA/CCA 24/2020 (“CCA 24”) against the aggregate sentence that had been imposed on Ridzuan by the trial judge in the General Division of the High Court (“the Judge”) arising from Ridzuan’s conviction on various offences, including, most notably, a charge of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by means of a heated substance under s 326 of the Penal Code in carrying out Incident 4 (charge “D1B1”). The Judge sentenced Ridzuan to an aggregate sentence of 27 years’ imprisonment and 24 strokes of the cane. On the Prosecution’s appeal, the Court of Appeal increased the punishment for charge D1B1 to life imprisonment with no caning for that charge, and ordered the other sentences to run concurrently. 3 Following the disposal of the earlier appeals, two issues remain outstanding in connection with the sentence to be imposed on Azlin and Ridzuan. The first issue concerned the appropriate sentence to be meted out to Azlin for her conviction on the alternative s 300(c) charge. The sentence for murder under s 300(c) was “death or imprisonment for life …” (s 302(2), Penal Code). The Prosecution submitted that Azlin should be sentenced to death, while Azlin sought life imprisonment. 4 The second issue concerned the appropriate aggregate sentence to be imposed on Ridzuan. Aside from charge D1B1, Ridzuan was also convicted of eight other offences before the Judge. These are one other charge in relation to Incident 2 (charge D1B2) and seven charges concerning various other acts of abuse committed by Ridzuan (and Azlin) against the Deceased. After the Court allowed the Prosecution’s appeal in CCA 24, it ordered the sentences for the eight other charges that Ridzuan had been convicted of to run concurrently with the sentence of life imprisonment for charge D1B1, in accordance with s 307(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”). However, the individual sentence which Ridzuan had been sentenced to, in respect of charge D1B2 was 12 years’ imprisonment and 12 strokes of the cane. Section 306(2) of the CPC, which empowered the court to run sentences concurrently, only applied to sentences of imprisonment. The remaining issue in relation to Ridzuan was whether the sentence of 12 strokes of the cane for charge D1B2 should be maintained or removed, given that he had been sentenced to life imprisonment for charge D1B1. The Court of Appeal’s decision on Azlin’s sentence5 The well-established legal principle was that the death penalty should be imposed only when the offender’s actions “outrage the feelings of the community” (Public Prosecutor v Kho Jabing [2015] 2 SLR 112 (“Kho Jabing”) at [44]). This however was not a purely subjective or visceral reaction of the sentencing court to the facts before it. The key inquiry was whether the offender acted in a way that exhibited a “blatant disregard for human life” [emphasis added] (Kho Jabing at [45]). The court must look at all the surrounding circumstances in order to determine the offender’s state of knowledge, her intentions and motivation, her sensitivity to the possibility of fatal consequences ensuing and her regard for life. In this, the court would examine how the offender acted in the light of what she knew or apprehended about the danger to life that her actions might pose. In line with this, the focus was on the “appellant’s knowledge and state of mind at the relevant time” [emphasis in original in bold italics; emphasis added in italics] (see Chan Lie Sian v Public Prosecutor [2019] 2 SLR 439 (“Chan Lie Sian”) at [88]), and the awareness of the possibility of fatal consequences. This was consistent with and follows from the fact that murder under s 300(a) of the Penal Code carries the mandatory death penalty, because the offender must be shown to have “had the clear intention to cause death” [emphasis in original in bold italics; emphasis added in italics] (Kho Jabing at [46]). When the relevant intention fell short of that, there should minimally be a finding that the accused person was either alive to the possibility of death and nonetheless proceeded to act as she did, or that she was utterly indifferent to whether death might ensue. This was what was encapsulated by a blatant disregard for life: at [20] and [21].6 An especially cruel manner by which the death was caused could show that the offender acted in a way that exhibited such “blatant disregard for human life” (Kho Jabing at [45]), such as where the offender persisted in severely harmful or cruel acts in circumstances where the possibility of death ensuing could not have escaped the offender’s consciousness. Or the cruelty or display of inhumane treatment may demonstrate a blatant disregard for human life because it evidences a state of mind “which is just shy of the requisite intention to sustain a charge under s 300(a) of the [Penal Code]” [emphasis added] (Kho Jabing at [47]): at [22].7 While cruelty or a display of inhumane treatment is a relevant factor, the court “should not be distracted by the gruesomeness of the scene of the crime” (Chan Lie Sian at [93]) in determining whether the death penalty should be imposed. Rather, it must consider all the circumstances of the case, including the offender’s age, motive, and intelligence (Kho Jabing at [48] and [51(d)]), to determine whether the offender has acted in a way which exhibits such a blatant disregard for human life as would outrage the feelings of the community. Where, for example, the offender is in a relationship with the victim that would typically be characterised as a protective relationship, the fact that the offender acts wholly contrary to this might, in the absence of other indicia, suggest such a blatant disregard for human life: at [24] and [25].8 In the present case, the key factor weighing against the imposition of the death penalty was the Judge’s finding that Azlin did not entirely comprehend the likelihood of death resulting from her actions. Thus, as far as the Judge was concerned, Azlin was quite some distance from intending to cause death, because she did not even comprehend the likelihood of death being a consequence of her actions: at [26].9 The Prosecution challenged the Judge’s finding that Azlin did not comprehend the likelihood of death resulting from her actions. While the Court of Appeal thought that this was a close call, in the final analysis, the court agreed that the evidence did not prove beyond reasonable doubt that Azlin knew that death was likely to ensue from the four scalding incidents. In the CA Judgment, the Court of Appeal did not disturb the Judge’s finding that Azlin did not comprehend the likelihood of death resulting from her actions. Azlin only needed to intend to cause the actual injury that was inflicted on the Deceased – which was the cumulative scald injury from the four scalding incidents – to be convicted of murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code. This was a separate question from whether Azlin committed the offence and inflicted the Cumulative Scald Injury with such blatant disregard for human life that the imposition of the death penalty was warranted in the circumstances: at [27] and [28].10 The Judge’s conclusion that Azlin did not comprehend the possibility of death rested on at least two other findings and observations. First, scalding was not obvious evidence of an intent to cause such injury as would lead to death, much less an intent to cause death. Second, Azlin did attempt to administer some self-help treatments on the Deceased, even if these proved woefully inadequate. For instance, after Incident 1, Azlin bought cream and applied it on the peeling skin on the Deceased’s arms and chest. After Incident 4, Azlin used tap water to rinse the Deceased, and also put baby powder on the Deceased’s chest and stomach area. While these acts were plainly inadequate, they did suggest that Azlin was trying to aid the Deceased. This undermined the inference that Azlin was indifferent to the fate of the Deceased much less that she very nearly intended to kill him: at [30] and [31].11 The Prosecution also relied on what Azlin purportedly told her friend after Incident 4. Specifically, when Azlin’s friend asked her why she did not immediately send the Deceased to the hospital after Incident 4, Azlin purportedly stated that “If I send him to hospital, myself and my husband die. If I don’t send him to the hospital, deceased die.” [emphasis added]. The Prosecution submitted that the latter emphasised words show that Azlin comprehended that the Deceased would die. However, it is important to bear in mind that, by that stage, that is, after Incident 4 and the Deceased had collapsed and was unable to get up, even if it was apparent to Azlin that there was a real possibility that the Deceased might die if he was not sent to the hospital as soon as possible, this was not sufficient evidence to infer that Azlin had any such apprehension of the likelihood of death during the commission of the four scalding incidents: at [32] to [33].12 For these reasons, the Court of Appeal was not satisfied that Azlin manifested such a blatant disregard for human life. The Court of Appeal therefore did not consider that the threshold had been crossed for the imposition of the death penalty. The Court of Appeal accordingly sentenced Azlin to life imprisonment: at [37] and [51].The Court of Appeal’s decision on Ridzuan’s sentence13 The Court of Appeal found that the aggregate sentence of life imprisonment (without caning) adequately reflected Ridzuan’s total culpability and harm caused: at [43]. 14 First, like Azlin, the Judge also found that Ridzuan did not comprehend the likelihood of death. Ridzuan only intended and participated in two of the four scalding incidents. Like Azlin, Ridzuan had also applied some self-help, though ultimately inadequate, measures to try to treat the Deceased after Incident 4: at [44].15 Second, the other abusive acts which Ridzuan committed on the Deceased, while inexcusable, were not so egregious that they justified a further uplift in Ridzuan’s sentence, beyond the extent to which the Court of Appeal had already enhanced Ridzuan’s sentence in the CA Judgment. Critically, the Court of Appeal had already taken into consideration all the relevant cumulative aggravating factors in increasing Ridzuan’s sentence from 27 years and 24 strokes of the cane to life imprisonment. The Court of Appeal had also already considered that Ridzuan’s case was devoid of any material mitigating factors. Therefore, the Court of Appeal could not “double-count” these factors to increase Ridzuan’s total sentence further by 12 strokes of the cane: at [45].16 Third, the Judge had reasoned that there should be parity in sentencing between Azlin and Ridzuan, because they shared essentially the same degree of culpability. While Ridzuan and Azlin had been convicted of different charges, the Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge’s finding that the two of them shared a very similar degree of culpability in this case. Their roles and the surrounding circumstances were similar, and most of the charges were committed by both of them in furtherance of their common intention. Both of them also shared parental responsibility for the Deceased. Consequently, as a matter of fairness, the starting position should be that Ridzuan should not be sentenced to a more onerous sentence than Azlin. If the sentence of 12 strokes of the cane for charge D1B2 were removed, then Azlin and Ridzuan would each be sentenced to life imprisonment: at [46] to [48].17 Further, the Court of Appeal considered that this would also be fair because it was not the Prosecution’s position at the trial below or even in the appeal in CCA 24 that Ridzuan should be sentenced to anything more than life imprisonment. It was only after the Court of Appeal had directed the parties to make further submissions on the issue of caning that the Prosecution first submitted for an aggregate sentence of life imprisonment and 12 strokes of the cane for Ridzuan: at [49].18 In all the circumstances, the Court of Appeal was satisfied that the sentence of 12 strokes of the cane for charge D1B2 should be set aside. The Court of Appeal sentenced Ridzuan to an aggregate sentence of life imprisonment accordingly: at [50] and [51].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
