
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE17 October 2022Case summaryThe “Jeil Crystal” [2022] SGCA 66--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):Outcome: Court of Appeal issues written grounds explaining why a warrant of arrest issued prior to an amendment to a statement of claim cannot be upheld on the basis of the amended claim introduced by the amendment.   Pertinent and significant points of the court’s grounds of decision •  A warrant of arrest in admiralty proceedings is an order of court. •  Where the plaintiff seeks to pursue a different claim in the in rem action by an amendment to the statement of claim, the warrant of arrest must be set aside. Since the original claim on which the warrant had been issued is abandoned, there would be no basis for the plaintiff to arrest the vessel on the strength of the original claim. Background1 The respondent, Banque Cantonale de Geneve (“BCG”), financed a transaction for the purchase of a cargo of Lube Base Oil (“the Cargo”) by its customer, one GP Global APAC Pte Ltd (“GP Global”). GP Global chartered The Jeil Crystal (“the Vessel”) to carry the Cargo. The appellant, Jeil International Co Ltd (“JIL”), is the owner of the Vessel. 2 In October 2020, BCG commenced HC/ADM 256/2020 (“ADM 256”). The writ in ADM 256 (“the Writ”) contained an endorsement of claim for misdelivery of the Cargo. On the same day, BCG also obtained a warrant of arrest for the Vessel (“WA 39”). WA 39 contained an endorsement of claim that was identical to the one in the Writ. At the hearing of the application for WA 39, BCG claimed to be the “holder” of the set of original bills of lading relating to the Cargo (“the Original BL”). However, that was incorrect because BCG had by then already released and endorsed the Original BL to GP Global.  In fact, by 29 June 2020, GP Global had already surrendered the Original BL (which it obtained from BCG) to JIL and a set of switched bills of lading (“the Switched BL”) was issued in place of the Original BL.3 After the Vessel was arrested, JIL instructed its solicitors to seek BCG’s confirmation that BCG was still in possession of the Original BL. BCG replied in the affirmative. JIL then furnished security by way of payment into court to secure the release of the Vessel. 4 On 4 November 2020, BCG filed its statement of claim in ADM 256 (“the SOC”). The SOC provided the particulars of the misdelivery claim. Subsequently, JIL sought to inspect the Original BL that BCG claimed was still in its custody. It is not disputed that no such inspection ever took place. Then, on 30 November 2020, JIL filed its defence & counterclaim in ADM 256 (“the D&CC”), in which it stated the facts relating to the switching and cancellation of the Original BL. BCG claimed that it was only upon reviewing the D&CC that it realised that the Original BL had been switched and that it no longer had possession of the Original BL. BCG then acknowledged in its reply and defence to counterclaim filed on 15 January 2021 that it had voluntarily released the Original BL to GP Global. However, BCG stated that it was unaware that GP Global had requested the Original BL for the purpose of switching the Original BL. 5 On 4 February 2021, BCG filed HC/SUM 586/2021 to amend the SOC. The amendment abandoned the original claim for misdelivery of the Cargo and the amended claim was based on an alleged wrongful switch of the Original BL by JIL without BCG’s knowledge or consent. Then, on 5 February 2021, JIL filed HC/SUM 599/2021 to set aside WA 39 and also to strike out the Writ and ADM 256. 6 A judge in the General Division of the High Court (“the Judge”) dismissed JIL’s application to set aside WA 39 but allowed BCG’s application to amend the SOC. The Judge concluded that, as he had allowed BCG’s application to amend the SOC, WA 39 could be maintained on the basis of the amended claim. The Judge reasoned that, provided that the court’s admiralty jurisdiction under the High Court (Admiralty Jurisdiction) Act (Cap 123, 2001 Rev Ed) had been validly invoked at the outset on the basis of the original claim, and the amended claim also fell within the court’s admiralty jurisdiction, then any amendment to the statement of claim would result in the warrant of arrest being “consequentially amended”, pursuant to either: (a) the court’s powers to rectify irregularities under O 2 r 1 of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (“the Rules”) or (b) the court’s exercise of powers to correct a “defect or error” in the warrant of arrest under O 20 r 8 of the Rules. 7 JIL obtained leave to appeal against the Judge’s refusal to set aside WA 39. Leave to appeal was granted in respect of a limited issue, as framed in the following question (“the Question”):In an application to set aside a warrant of arrest of a ship, can the warrant of arrest be upheld on the basis of an amended claim and/or cause of action which was not originally pleaded by the arresting party at the time of the application for and the issue of the warrant of arrest?The appeal 8 At the hearing of the appeal, the Court of Appeal pointed out to both counsel that the foundational issue imbedded in the Question was whether an amendment to the statement of claim could have a corresponding effect on a warrant of arrest that was issued prior to the amendment, and it invited the parties to address the court on this issue: at [20]-[24]. 9 According to the court, the determination of this foundational issue entailed an examination of three issues, as follows: at [25](a) What is the true nature of a warrant of arrest? (b) Whether an amendment to a statement of claim can have a corresponding effect on a warrant of arrest? (c) If not, what then is the status of a warrant of arrest following an amendment to the statement of claim? What is the true nature of a warrant of arrest10 The court held that a warrant of arrest is an order of court. This is because the warrant of arrest is an instrument which entitles the applicant to the remedy of the arrest procedure under O 70 r 4 of the Rules pursuant to the court’s sanction. Also, the procedure by which a warrant of arrest is obtained is essentially one in which the plaintiff seeks to persuade the court that it is entitled to the remedy of arrest, and the issuance of a warrant of arrest at the conclusion of that procedure represents a determination by the court that the plaintiff is properly entitled to the relief sought: at [27]-[30]. Whether an amendment to a statement of claim can have a corresponding effect on a warrant of arrest?11 Since the warrant of arrest is an order of court, it can only be amended pursuant to O 20 r 11 of the Rules, which is the exclusive provision within the Rules dealing with amendments of an order of court. Order 20 r 11 only provides for the amendment of orders of court where there are clerical mistakes or errors arising from accidental slip or omission in the court’s judgment or order: at [38]-[40]. 12 A warrant of arrest is issued entirely on the basis of the claim as verified in the supporting affidavit filed in the arrest application. Where an amendment has been allowed to the statement of claim, that would constitute a change in the claim which the plaintiff is seeking to pursue in the in rem action. However, any such amendment can have no effect on the contents of the supporting affidavit. The court’s manifest intention, in issuing the warrant of arrest and allowing the plaintiff to arrest the vessel identified therein, remained premised on the original claim. Thus, notwithstanding an amendment to the statement of claim, in the absence of any clerical mistake or accidental error, there would be no basis to invoke O 20 r 11 of the Rules to amend the warrant of arrest: at [41]. 13 The court therefore held that an amendment to a statement of claim can have no corresponding effect on a warrant of arrest. Consequently, the Question was answered in the negative: at [42]. 14 The court also explained its disagreement with the Judge’s reasoning as to how the warrant of arrest can be consequentially amended by the amendment to the statement of claim: at [43]. (a) First, given the court’s conclusion that a warrant of arrest is an order of court, the Judge’s reasoning based on O 20 r 8 of the Rules could not stand. After all, O 20 r 8(2) expressly states that O 20 r 8 does not apply to a “judgment or order”, which includes a warrant of arrest: at [44]. (b) Second, there was no non-compliance in the warrant of arrest to give rise to an “irregularity” for the purposes of engaging the court’s powers under O 2 r 1 of the Rules. While the form by which a warrant is sought (Form 160 in Appendix A of the Rules) requires the plaintiff to set out a description of the claim, which is to be copied from the writ, that requirement was strictly complied with by BCG in this case. Also, a warrant of arrest, if it is to be issued, is issued on the strength of the claim as verified in the supporting affidavit accompanying the arrest application. The description of the claim in Form 160 is therefore no more than a formal requirement that the warrant of arrest mirror the particulars of the claim contained in the supporting affidavit, which in turn would necessarily mirror that set out in the endorsement in the writ at the time the affidavit was filed, and which would state the original claim: at [45]-[47]. What then is the status of a warrant of arrest following an amendment to the statement of claim?15 Following an amendment to the statement of claim, the plaintiff is effectively seeking to pursue a different claim in the in rem action (the amended claim). Since the original claim on which the warrant of arrest is issued is now abandoned, there would no longer be any basis for the plaintiff to arrest the vessel on the strength of the original claim. In such a situation, the court must set aside the warrant of arrest and order the return of the security furnished (if any) or order the release of the vessel, as the case may be: at [56]. Conclusion16 Given the court’s decision that the Question had to be answered in the negative, it held that the Judge’s decision to uphold WA 39 was incorrect. The court allowed the appeal and ordered WA 39 to be set aside, and for the security furnished by JIL to be returned: at [60]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. 
