
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE5 October 2022Case summaryPradeepto Kumar Biswas v Gouri Mukherjee and another [2022] SGCA 63Originating Application No 2 of 2022 (Summons No 15 of 2022)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: the Court of Appeal dismisses both applications.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The fact that there have been multiple adverse rulings by a single judge against a single party is generally not a ground for a finding of apparent bias. But it may be the basis for such a finding where the adverse rulings were made in error, and are accompanied by exaggerated or intemperate language, or are based on facts or statements of law that are clearly and inescapably wrong: at [15].•  It would not be in the interests of the administration of justice to hear a further appeal from a proceeding that was an abuse of process: at [63]. Background 1 The respondents successfully sued the applicant and were awarded a judgment sum. They later served a statutory demand (which was based on the judgment sum) on the applicant. The applicant sought to set aside the statutory demand before an Assistant Registrar but failed. He appealed to the General Division of the High Court, but this also failed. The applicant then sought permission to appeal against this decision, as well as an extension of time to apply for permission to appeal, and an extension of time to appeal. This was heard by the Appellate Division of the High Court (“the AD”) who dismissed all three prayers (“the AD Decision”).2 The applicant then brought Originating Application No 2 of 2022 (“OA 2”) which sought permission to appeal against the AD Decision. He claimed that there was a point of law of public importance that would arise from an appeal against the AD Decision. He also brought Summons No 15 of 2022 (“SUM 15”) which was an application for the recusal of Andrew Phang JCA, who was on the coram for OA 2, on the basis of apparent bias.Decision3 The Court of Appeal (“CA”) dismissed both OA 2 and SUM 15. SUM 15 4 The crux of the applicant’s case was that Phang JCA had been involved in multiple rulings that were adverse to the applicant and this gave rise to a reasonable suspicion of bias. The CA disagreed and dismissed SUM 15: at [63]. a. The fact that there have been multiple adverse rulings against a single litigant by a single judge is generally not grounds for a finding of apparent bias but may be in exceptional cases: at [15]. b. In the adverse rulings involving Phang JCA cited by the applicant, there were no errors made, let alone ones that would engender an appearance of bias: at [24], [29]. c. Other evidence which was improperly adduced by the applicant were not relevant to SUM 15 and were thus not admitted: at [30]–[35]. OA 2 5 The applicant claimed that the AD did not exercise its own independent judgment in coming to the AD Decision and had instead relied on the obiter dicta in a related decision by the CA. He claimed that this raised a point of law of public importance: was the AD correct to rely on the CA decision instead of exercising its own independent judgment?6 The CA rejected OA 2 because the alleged point of law of public importance did not pass either the Threshold Merits Requirement or the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement as set out in UJM v UJL [2021] SGCA 117. 7 First, with regard to the Threshold Merits Requirement, the alleged point of law of public importance did not arise on the facts of the case because it was clear that the AD had exercised its own independent judgment. And in any event, the alleged point of law of public importance would not have a substantial bearing on the outcome of an appeal against the AD Decision: at [52]–[53]. 8 Second, with regard to the Discretionary Appropriateness Requirement:a. The alleged point of law of public importance did not require a determination by the CA: at [54]. b. Hearing an appeal against the AD Decision would not be in the interests of the administration of justice as it arose from an abuse of process: at [55]–[63]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
