
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE28 September 2022Case SummaryTan Teck Kee v Ratan Kumar Rai [2022] SGCA 62Civil Appeal No. 1 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: The Court of Appeal (the “Court”) dismissed Mr Tan Teck Kee’s (“Mr Tan”) appeal in respect of HC/S 160/2019 (“Suit 160”) entirely. In so doing, it affirmed the decision of the judge below (the “Judge”): (a) that Mr Tan was a fiduciary to Mr Ratan Kumar Rai (“Mr Rai”) who was liable to account; (b) that three instances of wilful default had been made out against Mr Tan; and, therefore, (c) that Mr Tan ought to render an account to Mr Rai on the basis of wilful default. However, the Court allowed Mr Tan’s appeal in respect of HC/SUM 2708/2021 (“SUM 2708”) and set aside the leave granted by the Judge for Mr Rai to commence committal proceedings against Mr Tan.Pertinent and Significant Points of the Judgment•  The Court held that there was no rule of law which precluded a director (“D”) from voluntarily placing himself in a position which could result in his owing fiduciary obligations to a third party (“TP”). If, however, by voluntarily placing himself in such a position, D created a real possibility of conflict between the interests of TP on one hand, and those of his principal company (“P”) on the other, P would have recourse against D for breach of his fiduciary obligations. However, the fact that D owed P fiduciary obligations would not, in and of itself, exclude D from being found also to owe fiduciary obligations to TP. Such a rule would have the effect of immunising D from the consequences of his actions which had created real or potential conflicts between his position as a director and his duties to the TP.Introduction1 This appeal arose from the Judge’s decision in Ratan Kumar Rai v Seah Hock Thiam and others [2021] SGHC 276 which concerned two matters, Suit 160 and SUM 2708. These matters were connected but distinct, and, as such, the Court dealt with them separately, beginning with Suit 160.Suit 160The dispute2 Mr Rai’s claim was that he, some friends and business associates orally agreed to invest in Cambodian real estate (the “Venture”). An important term of this alleged oral agreement (which Mr Rai called the “Oral Understanding”) was that the first defendant in Suit 160, Seah Hock Thiam (“Mr Seah”), would act as “custodian” of the investment funds for the Venture. As “custodian”, he was said to have undertaken directly to the other investors the obligation to oversee the funds, monitor expenses, sales receipts, and distribute profits made from the Venture, amongst other things. Mr Seah was able to engage Mr Tan to “assist” him in the performance of these duties.3 Initially, the plan underlying the Venture was to purchase land and flip it for a profit when it appreciated in value. First, the investors acquired a 7,000m2 plot in Phnom Penh (“Plot A”) using the third defendant in Suit 160, Worldbridgeland (Cambodia) Co Ltd (“WBL”), a Cambodian company. Thereafter, in connection with the Venture, WBL purchased another 3,000m2 plot of land adjacent to Plot A (“Plot B”). Eventually, the value of Plots A and B increased substantially, and the investors decided that developing the plots would be more profitable. WBL thus entered into a venture with Singapore Exchange-listed property developer Oxley Holdings Limited (“Oxley Holdings”). WBL contributed the land, Oxley Holding developed it, and the result was a 45-storey twin tower, mixed-use development known as “The Bridge”.4 WBL was used to acquire Plots A and B because Cambodian law precluded foreigners from owning land in Cambodia. Only citizens or companies incorporated in Cambodia with at least 51% of their shares held by a Cambodian national were allowed to do so. The Cambodian national who held a 51% interest in WBL was Oknha Rithy Sear (“Mr Rithy”), a businessman whom Mr Rai, Mr Seah and another investor, Seah Chong Hwee, had met through a mutual friend during their visits to Cambodia to view the plots of land.5 The Bridge was a profitable development, and for his contributions to the purchases of Plots A and B, Rai received payouts from WBL. However, on his case, the payouts he received fell short of what was due. Mr Rai therefore asked Mr Seah and Mr Tan to provide accounts of the Venture. When such accounts were not forthcoming, he commenced Suit 160 against them and WBL to obtain orders that they account for the profits of the investment. WBL was absent from the trial of Suit 160 and, thus, there was no real dispute that it was liable to account to Mr Rai. As regards Mr Seah and Mr Tan, Mr Rai claimed that they were liable to account to him as his fiduciaries.6 Mr Seah and Mr Tan wholly denied the existence of the Oral Understanding or anything equivalent to such an oral agreement. They asserted, to the contrary, that the Oral Understanding was a complete fabrication by Mr Rai. They averred that WBL had been established by Mr Tan and Mr Rithy as a real estate investment company. They claimed that WBL was the entity which identified the opportunities to invest in Plots A and B, and that it had solicited the investors’ contributions to finance these acquisitions. On this account, all the investors (including Mr Rai) had a contractual relationship only with WBL, not with Mr Seah or Mr Tan directly.The decision below7 The Judge found generally for Mr Rai and ordered that Mr Tan and WBL provide accounts to him on the basis of wilful default. Mr Seah was ordered to provide a common account. In finding that Mr Seah and Mr Tan were fiduciaries to Mr Rai, the Judge preferred Mr Rai’s account as to the genesis of the Venture. In her view, the investors had entered into an oral understanding “of some sort”, and it was Mr Seah and Mr Tan who undertook to manage the Venture for the investors.The appeal8 Mr Seah and WBL did not appeal the Judge’s decision in respect of Suit 160. Only Mr Tan appealed and he raised two grounds:a. First, that the Judge erred in finding that he was a fiduciary to Mr Rai and hence liable to account. b. Second, that the Judge erred in determining that he was liable to account on the basis of wilful default. Mr Tan contended that the Judge should have ordered an account on the common basis.The Court’s decision9 To address Mr Tan’s first ground of appeal, the Court examined the findings made below as regards the genesis of the Venture, and the roles played by Mr Seah, Mr Tan and Mr Rithy: at [41].10 The Court agreed with the Judge that the evidence lent stronger support to Mr Rai’s position. The factor which persuaded the Court, in particular, was the fact that millions of dollars had been transferred by the investors into the control of Mr Seah, Mr Tan, Mr Rithy and/or WBL without security, guarantee or even documentation to record the purpose of these transfers. Looking at the objective evidence as a whole, the Court was satisfied that there must have been some sort of oral understanding which provided a basis for the conduct of the investors as well as that of Mr Seah, Mr Tan and Mr Rithy. Specifically, the investors must have had trust in the person or persons who would have control over their investments. As WBL was a nascent company with minimal capitalisation and no track record, it could not itself have been the source of such trust: at [9], [10], [42], [48] and [49].11 This conclusion led the Court to determine the following:a. Although Mr Seah was not involved in the management of the Venture, it appeared that he had effectively delegated the management of the Venture to Mr Tan. This was salient because Mr Seah was not a director or shareholder of WBL. Therefore, the fact that Mr Seah was involved in persuading investors at all supported the conclusion that the Venture was not initiated by WBL. His involvement also reasonably accounted for the investors’ willingness to participate in the Venture in the informal manner they did, such informality being otherwise inexplicable: at [50]–[56].b. Mr Tan had undertaken to act as Mr Seah’s “assistant” in the management of the Venture in his personal capacity whilst concurrently being a director of WBL, not in his capacity as a director of WBL. The Court attached weight to the fact that: (i) substantial sums of money towards the purchase of Plots A and B had been transferred into Mr Tan’s personal bank account rather than WBL’s account; and (ii) Mr Tan had effectively distributed earnings from the Venture to the investors in his own capacity: at [57]–[63].c. As regards Mr Rithy, the Court agreed with the Judge that the fact that Mr Rithy was not a “mere front” did not diminish Mr Tan’s role in the Venture. While theoretically Mr Rithy could exercise his powers as a director and co-owner of WBL, the evidence showed that Mr Tan often acted unilaterally: at [64]–[66].12 The Court then turned to the two questions of law which arose from Mr Tan’s appeal. 13 The first was whether the Judge misdirected herself as to the applicable principles for determining the existence of a fiduciary relationship. a. The Court rejected Mr Tan’s contention. The correct approach for determining the existence of a fiduciary relationship was that stated in Tan Yok Koon v Tan Choo Suan and another and other appeals [2017] SGCA 13 in that it required the court to ascertain whether the putative fiduciary had “voluntarily place[d] himself in a position where the law can objectively impute an intention on his … part to undertake [fiduciary duties]”: at [69]–[77].b. The Court agreed with the Judge that Mr Tan was a fiduciary to Mr Rai because: (i) Mr Tan possessed a high degree of control over the investors’ interests in the Venture; (ii) Mr Rithy’s position as a director and co-owner of WBL did not meaningfully limit Mr Tan’s ability to exercise such control; and (iii) there was little which the investors could do to protect their interest in the Venture: at [78]. Furthermore, Mr Tan was determined to be a fiduciary with a specific obligation to account because he could exercise unilateral custodial powers over the assets of WBL in which the investors had an interest: at [79] and [80].14 Mr Tan argued that it was not permissible for a director of a company to voluntarily undertake a position which could give rise to fiduciary obligations in relation to a third party. He contended that this was not possible because that director would already owe a fiduciary duty of loyalty to his principal company, and, thus, recognising a concurrent fiduciary duty of loyalty in relation to a third party would require the director to do the “very opposite” of what he was obliged to do in respect of his principal company: at [84].15 The Court rejected this submission and held that, if a director – by voluntarily placing himself in such a position – created a real possibility of conflict between the interests of the third party and his principal company, the director’s principal company would be entitled to take action against him for breach of fiduciary duty owed to the company. The solution was not, as counsel for Mr Tan argued, for the Court to lay down a rule that fiduciary duties to third parties could not ever arise in such cases. Such a rule would have the effect of immunising errant fiduciaries from the consequences of their own conflict-creating actions: at [85] and [86]. 16 The Court clarified that an account on the basis of wilful default would only be given if the instances of wilful default gave rise to the prima facie inference that there were other instances yet to be uncovered: at [90]. There were three instances of wilful default alleged against Mr Tan in this matter and the Judge had found that all of them were established. None of the arguments raised by Mr Tan on appeal persuaded the Court that the Judge had erred in this regard: at [22]–[29], [31] and [92]–[97]. The Court was also satisfied, given the nature of Mr Tan’s acts of wilful default, that a common account would not be adequate. It thus upheld the Judge’s order that Mr Tan was to account to Mr Rai on the basis of wilful default: at [98] and [99].17 The second question of law was whether Mr Rai’s claim against Mr Tan fell afoul of the principle that the law will exempt directors from personal liability for the contractual breaches of their principal company: at [67(b)]. The Court had determined that Mr Rai’s claim was against Mr Tan as a fiduciary in his own right. Accordingly, this principle was not engaged: at [82] and [83].SUM 2708Background18 In the lead up to the trial of Suit 160, Mr Rai applied for and was granted an order for specific discovery against WBL (the “Order”). The Order was served on WBL, which did not comply. It was then served on Mr Tan, who – despite retaining his 49% stake in WBL – had, by this time, resigned as a director of WBL. Taking the view that it was no longer his responsibility to influence WBL to comply with the Order, Mr Tan filed SUM 2708 seeking two declarations to such effect, and a third declaration that the Order had not, in any event, been properly served on him. There was no dispute that the Order was only served on Mr Tan after time stipulated for WBL’s compliance had expired.The decision below and the appeal19 The Judge declined to grant any of the three declarations sought by Mr Tan and, upon an application filed by Mr Rai, she granted leave for Mr Rai to commence committal proceedings against Mr Tan. 20 In respect of the first two declarations sought by SUM 2708, the Judge held that a prima facie case of contempt had been made out against Mr Tan under s 6(2) of the Administration of Justice (Protection) Act 2016. Pertinently, she found that WBL was either a “corporation whose affairs [were] managed by its members”, or, in any case, that Mr Tan was “involved in the management” of WBL and was “in a position” to influence its conduct.21 In respect of the third declaration sought by SUM 2708, the Judge accepted that the Order was served out of time. However, she took the view that it could nevertheless be enforced by an order of committal because the relevant provision of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (“ROC 2014”) requiring strict compliance with timelines for service – O 45 r 5(1)(ii) and O 45 r 7(3)(b) – did not apply. 22 On appeal, Mr Tan essentially contended that the Judge erred.The Court’s decision23 The Court agreed with the Judge that O 45 r 5(1)(ii) and O 45 r 7(3)(b) of the ROC 2014 did not apply to Mr Tan because he was no longer a director of WBL. However, it did not follow that none of the relevant provision in the ROC 2014 requiring strict compliance with service requirements applied. It was clear that O 45 r 5(1)(i) of the ROC 2014 applied generally to all cases in which a party seeks to enforce a court order by an order of committal. This was broad enough to apply to the present case, and, consequently, O 45 r 7(2)(b) – which referred to enforcement of “Rule 5” as a whole, not any particular sub-paragraph of Rule 5 – required that Mr Tan be served a copy of the Order before the expiration of the time within which he was expected to compel WBL’s compliance. This interpretation of the provision of the ROC 2014 was not only textually permissible, it was sensible and necessary. Service in the context of contempt was not a formality. A person could not be said to have failed to comply with an order of court if he did not even know about that order until after the date by which his compliance was required: at [119]–[123].24 In the present case, counsel for Mr Tan had themselves taken the view that the Order was served on Mr Tan pursuant to O 45 r 7(2) of the ROC 2014. Having done so, they should have taken steps to ensure that the requirements of service under O 45 r 7(2)(b) were complied with. However, they failed to do so. As O 45 r 7(2)(b) precluded an improperly served order from being enforced by an order of committal, the Court granted the third declaration sought in SUM 2708 and set aside the leave which the Judge granted to Mr Rai to commence committal proceedings against Mr Tan: at [124] and [125].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
