
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE26 September 2022Case SummaryRe Wong Wai Loong Sean and other matters [2022] SGHC 237Admission of Advocates and Solicitors Nos. 100, 121, 124 and 125 of 2022 (Summons Nos 2501, 3008, 3009 and 3010 of 2022)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: The Court allowed all four applicants to withdraw their applications to be admitted as Advocates and Solicitors, subject to certain undertakings. Most notably, this included an undertaking not to bring fresh admissions applications for a specified period. Background1 The four applicants in AAS 100, AAS 121, AAS 124, and AAS 125, were found to have cheated in the 2020 Part B examinations. After their respective cheating incidents, they resat and passed the examination in the 2021 session. They then filed applications to be admitted as Advocates and Solicitors, but, after objections were entered, they each sought for permission to withdraw their applications. 2 On 26 August 2022, the Court heard (the “Hearing”) and allowed all four withdrawal applications subject to the imposition of certain conditions. a. In respect of AAS 100, which concerned Sean Wong Wai Loong (“Mr Wong”), the conditions of withdrawal were as follows: (i) That Mr Wong would undertake not to bring a fresh application to be admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor in Singapore or in any other jurisdiction for a period of not less than two years from the date of the Court’s decision, which was 26 August 2022; and(ii) That, if and when Mr Wong did bring a fresh application to be admitted, he would also undertake to satisfy any prevailing statutory or other reasonable requirements as may be imposed by the Attorney-General (the “AG”), the Law Society of Singapore (the “Law Society”), the Singapore Institute of Legal Education (“SILE”), or the court as to his fitness and suitability for admission.b. As regards AAS 121, 124 and 125, which respectively concerned Ms Ong Jia Yi Joleen (“Ms Ong”), Mr Lim Yi Zi (“Mr Lim”) and Ms Annabelle Au Jia En (“Ms Au”), the same essential conditions were imposed, save that the periods of their undertakings not to bring fresh applications to be admitted were for: three years, one year, and nine months, in respect of Ms Ong, Mr Lim and Ms Au. Each of these periods were also to run from 26 August 2022.3 At the Hearing, the Court gave brief reasons for its decision with full grounds to follow. These were the full grounds of the Court’s decision. Mr Sean Wong Wai Loong (AAS 100)The cheating incident4 On 25 November 2020, between 10am and 12pm, the SILE administered the Mediation Advocacy (“Mediation”) paper for the 2020 Part B examinations. Candidates were given a 15-minute window after 12.00pm to submit their scripts. Mr Wong sat for and attempted the paper and did not communicate with his peers during the examination. At 12.06pm he duly submitted his script. Thinking that the examination had ended and had gone well, Mr Wong exchanged his script with another candidate, one who had also completed the examination. Upon reviewing this candidate’s script, Mr Wong realised that he missed and failed to even attempt one question valued at 30 out of the paper’s full 100 marks. He panicked when he had this realisation at 12.11pm and proceeded to copy that candidate’s answer. At 12.14pm, he reuploaded and resubmitted his edited script: at [7]–[10]. The Court’s analysis of Mr Wong’s character issues5 When the similarities were discovered, the SILE interviewed Mr Wong. He was quick to admit his misconduct and was cooperative with its investigations. For this, the Court gave Mr Wong credit. However, the extent of such credit was somewhat diminished by Mr Wong’s subsequent failure to disclose his misconduct in his admissions affidavit: at [11] and [12]. Mr Wong attempted to explain that he genuinely believed that the SILE had forgiven his misconduct, and, therefore, that it did not need to be disclosed: at [14]. The Court was not convinced that this was a reasonable belief, though, it also was not persuaded that Mr Wong’s non-disclosure rose to the level of dishonesty. Therefore, in determining the appropriate period for which Mr Wong should undertake not to bring a fresh application to be admitted, the Court only gave some weight to Mr Wong’s non-disclosure, which it viewed as indicative of a lack of candour in facing up to difficult situations: at [16]–[20] and [24].6 Beyond such non-disclosure, the following considerations were also taken into account:a. First, the Court took the view that that the severity of Mr Wong’s misconduct was not to be understated. It observed that lawyers are often faced with situations in which they must take decisions quickly. And, although it could sometimes be difficult to take quick decisions with due care, it was never difficult to make quick and honest decisions. Further, the Court was also mindful of the fact that Mr Wong had appropriated the work of another person as his own without seeking that other person’s permission. These acts pointed to quite a serious character defect which would require some time to address: at [22] and [23].b. Second, the Court took note of the fact that Mr Goh Pek San (“Mr Goh”) of P S Goh & Co had attested to Mr Wong’s regret and remorse, his generally good character, as well as his willingness to work on his faults. Mr Goh also indicated that he would continue to supervise Mr Wong. Although Mr Wong did not give evidence on the steps he had taken or planned to take so as to work on the character issues this incident revealed, this was not counted against him as he had not been specifically asked to provide such information: at [25].The appropriate period of Mr Wong’s undertaking7 Drawing these considerations together, the Court concluded that an undertaking period of two years was suitable to allow Mr Wong to reflect and work on his character issues. This period exceeded Mr Goh’s submission that the appropriate period was one and a half years, but was consistent with the position taken by the Law Society. In arriving at this decision, the Court rejected the AGC’s submission that a substantial period of four years was appropriate: at [26], [28] and [29].8 In view of the AGC’s submission, the Court reiterated that deferment in admissions cases was not punitive. Instead, it served two purposes from two different perspectives. From the perspective of the applicant, the period of deferment was a clear timeframe within which they should work to resolve the character issues which their misconduct revealed. Thus, when an applicant suggests a period of deferment, such period needs to be realistic and not overly optimistic. From the perspective of the stakeholders, the period of deferment should represent the amount of time in which they were confident that the applicant could, with best efforts, return with whatever that was necessary to renew trust in their suitability to be admitted. In making this assessment, the stakeholders should not take an unduly pessimistic view of applicants who have erred. Between the two, the task of the court was to find the right balance between views that may be either too optimistic or too pessimistic: at [27].Ms Ong Jia Yi Joleen, Mr Lim Zi Yi and Ms Annabelle Au Jia En (AAS 121, 124 and 125)General background9 Ms Ong, Mr Lim and Ms Au were members of a study group comprising just the three of them. In this group, they focused on the preparation of “stock answers”. These were prepared paragraphs, typically of generic material such as statements of the law, which they could copy and paste into their answer scripts. It was explained that this practice served to alleviate some time-pressure from having to retype such material in full: at [33]. The trio also used an online communication platform called “Discord” to conduct study sessions: at [35]. 10 In relation to the practice of using “stock answers”, it is important to note the following:a. During the Hearing, the SILE’s representative confirmed that such practice did not fall afoul of the examination rules. It was explained that candidates were, however, prohibited from communicating during the examination. Thus, where similarities were observed between two candidates’ scripts, a review of those scripts would be conducted by the SILE to determine whether they were of such nature and extent that they could fairly be explained by the candidates’ use of common stock answers, or, whether it was more appropriate to infer that the candidates must have communicated during the examination in arriving at their similar answers: at [33] and [34].b. This clarification was extremely important in relation to the Criminal (“Criminal Litigation”) and Civil Litigation Practice (“Civil Litigation”) papers. This was an area which gave rise to some factual difficulty: at [44].The admitted cheating incidents11 The use of “stock answers”, however, was not seriously in issue as far as the other two relevant papers were concerned: Mediation and Ethics and Professional Responsibility (“Ethics”). This was because, in respect of these papers, Ms Ong, Mr Lim and Ms Au admitted the following:a. On 25 November 2020, between 10am and 12pm, Ms Ong attempted most of the Mediation paper by herself in accordance with the SILE’s examination rules. However, near the end of the paper, Ms Ong contacted Mr Lim on Discord in a panic because she was unable to complete a part of the final question carrying ten of the paper’s total 100 marks. She requested that he send her his answer to that question. When he obliged, Ms Ong copied his entire answer into her script and submitted it as her own: at [37].b. On 1 December 2020, also between 10am and 12pm, due to certain technical faults with the SILE’s website, the Ethics paper was released approximately ten minutes late. Ms Ong explained that this put her in a state of panic and anxiety for the entire paper. She also claimed that she did not realise the SILE had extended the paper by 15 minutes on account of the delayed release. Thus, near what she thought was the end of the paper, Ms Ong contacted Mr Lim and Ms Au on Discord, pleading that they help her by providing their answers to the questions she had not even attempted. They obliged, and, once again Ms Ong passed off some of their answers as her own: at [38]–[42].The disregarded cheating incident12 The applicants were also questioned about similarities between their scripts in the Criminal and Civil Litigation papers. However, they denied communicating during these papers. They took and maintained the position that the similarities between their scripts could be explained by the use of “stock answers”. After concluding its investigations, the SILE accepted their explanation in respect of Civil but not Criminal Litigation. They were thus denied a pass in the latter but not the former. However, the SILE did not provide any explanation for the distinction drawn between the two papers. This was despite the fact that the degree and character of similarity between the three applicants’ scripts was substantially the same in respect of both subjects: at [45]–[48].13 Due to the lack of explanation, the Court could not determine whether the SILE was being lenient in respect of the Civil Litigation paper or harsh in respect of the Criminal Litigation paper. This was a crucial point of uncertainty because of the applicants’ position that they did not communicate during the latter paper. The import of concluding that the SILE was being lenient in respect of the Civil Litigation paper was that the applicants would have not only been dishonest from the outset, but that they must  also have lied in the affidavits they placed before the Court. This was a damning conclusion which the Court could not reach on the available information. Thus, the fact that the applicants were denied passes in the Criminal Litigation paper was disregarded: at [49]–[51].14 The Court made clear that the legitimacy of the SILE’s finding was not being called into question. The finding had to be disregarded because the specific issue before the Court was whether the applicants were suitable to be admitted in terms of their character. On the information available to the Court, the character issue to be gleaned from the SILE’s decision in respect of the Criminal Litigation paper could not be ascertained: at [52]–[54].The Court’s analysis of the three applicants’ character issues15 After the SILE discovered the similarities between Ms Ong’s, Mr Lim’s and Ms Au’s scripts in various subjects, they interviewed them individually in February 2021:a. Ms Ong was not immediately cooperative with the SILE’s investigation. During her first interview, Ms Ong was asked about similarities between her scripts for the Ethics, Criminal and Civil Litigation papers. She denied communicating with Mr Lim and Ms Au in respect of all three papers despite knowing that this was untrue of the Ethics paper. Ms Ong was not asked about the Mediation paper and she did not volunteer any information. After this interview, Ms Ong was invited to submit written representations and, in these representations, she still did not admit the fact that she communicated with Mr Lim during the Mediation paper and with both Mr Lim and Ms Au during the Ethics paper. It was only at her second interview with the SILE that Ms Ong admitted her misconduct. However, she still did not volunteer the information in respect of the Mediation paper. She only admitted her misconduct when asked. The Court was of the view that even though Ms Ong ultimately disclosed her misconduct, the manner in which she did so reflected a degree of tactical realism. It was not underpinned by honesty or remorse and her initial lack of candour was thus revealing of a character defect: at [55]–[57]. b. By contrast, Mr Lim and Ms Au were forthcoming with the SILE from the outset. In fact, although he had not been asked about the Mediation paper during his first interview, Mr Lim volunteered this information and admitted his misconduct: at [58].16 The Court was also mindful of the fact that these three applicants did not fully disclose the extent of their misconduct in their admissions affidavits. However, unlike Mr Wong, they had at least mentioned their misconduct. They explained that they were under the impression that the disclosure to be made in the admissions affidavit could be general in nature, and where further information was required, the stakeholders would direct them to file further affidavits. The Court accepted this explanation and attributed no weight to their incomplete disclosure: at [59]–[62].The appropriate period of Ms Ong, Mr Lim and Ms Au’s undertakings17 Drawing the above considerations together, the Court determined that the appropriate period for Ms Ong to undertake not to file a fresh application to be admitted was three years. The Court reiterated the seriousness of dishonest conduct even if it flowed from a state of panic. The Court gave particular weight to the fact that Ms Ong had cheated twice and was not initially forthcoming during the SILE’s investigations: at [64]–[68].18 As regards Mr Lim and Ms Au, the Court regarded their conduct as being of a less severe nature that that of Mr Wong and Ms Ong because they did not act dishonestly in furtherance of their own interests. Nevertheless, they still failed to show the honesty and integrity expected of legal professionals in upholding general and institutional standards of conduct. Coupled with their candour with the SILE from the very outset, the Court assessed that a shorter undertaking period of one year in respect of Mr Lim and nine months in respect of Ms Au was sufficient for them to work on their character faults: at [69]–[75].  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
