
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 September 2022Case summaryBCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd and others v Michael A Baker (executor of the estate of Chantal Burnison, deceased) [2022] SGCA(I) 7Civil Appeal No. 70 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA upholds the decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court to issue an anti-suit injunction restraining the appellants from prosecuting, or continuing to prosecute, proceedings in California in so far as such proceedings relate to matters already litigated before and determined by the Singapore courts. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal clarifies that an anti-suit injunction may be granted on the basis of the court’s inherent power to protect the integrity of its processes once set in motion, as a separate ground from the exercise of its equitable jurisdiction to restrain unconscionable conduct or the unconscientious exercise of legal rights: at [53]–[54].1 This was an appeal from the decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) to grant an anti-suit injunction (“ASI”) restraining the appellants from prosecuting, or continuing to prosecute, proceedings in California (the “Californian Proceedings”) and anywhere else in the world, in so far as those proceedings related to the existence, validity and/or enforceability of a trust (the “Trust”), these being matters that had previously been decided by the SICC. Background to the appeal2 The first appellant, BCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd (“BCS”), was a company incorporated in Singapore and the second appellant, Mr Marcus Weber (“Weber”), was a director and sole shareholder of BCS. Weber was a Swiss National and permanent resident of Singapore. The third appellant, Renslade Holdings Limited (“Renslade (HK)”) was a company incorporated in Hong Kong and Weber was its sole shareholder. 3 The respondent, Mr Michael A Baker, was executor of the estate of Ms Chantal Burnison (the “Estate” and “Chantal”). Chantal had been the co-inventor of a compound named “Ethocyn”, which was used in various cosmetic and beauty products. The rights to the inventions and patents of Ethocyn (the “Ethocyn Rights”) were initially assigned to Californian companies controlled by Chantal (the “Chantal Companies”). Subsequently, the Chantal Companies’ assets were sold to a New Zealand corporation, Renslade Holdings Limited (“Renslade (NZ)”), following certain Ch 11 bankruptcy proceedings in the US (the “US Bankruptcy Proceedings”) against the Chantal Companies. Sometime between 2000 and 2001 or 2002, the Ethocyn Rights were transferred to a Singapore company, Renslade Singapore Pte Ltd (“Renslade (S)”), and finally to BCS in April 2002. 4 Over the years, the Ethocyn Rights yielded substantial income and profits, mainly under a supply and distribution agreement between BCS and Nu Skin International Inc (“Nu Skin”). Under the agreement, BCS agreed to supply Ethocyn to Nu Skin for its use and distribution, and Nu Skin would make direct payments to BCS in return. These payments formed the bulk of moneys generated from the Ethocyn Rights (the “Trust Moneys”). In or around 2007, the bulk of the Trust Moneys was transferred from BCS to Renslade (HK). 5 In October 2016, Chantal passed away. In November 2017, the respondent commenced SIC/S 3/2018 (“Suit 3”) on behalf of the Estate alleging, amongst other things, that the appellants had breached their fiduciary duties as trustees under the Trust or an oral agreement (the “Trust Agreement”) to hold and manage assets (the “Trust Assets”) for Chantal.  The appellants denied that there was any kind of agreement between Chantal and Weber for Weber to acquire and hold the Ethocyn Rights and any income or proceeds generated on trust for Chantal. Further, the alleged Trust was governed by California law under which no valid trust could have been created. It was argued that the alleged Trust would be for an illegal purpose, and would additionally be illegal, void or unenforceable as being contrary to the public policy of Singapore since on the respondent’s case, Chantal had in the course of the US Bankruptcy Proceedings made certain statements which served to conceal her assets and the existence of the alleged Trust, which were breaches of US law. These statements were to the effect that the sale of the Ethocyn Rights from the Chantal Companies to Renslade (NZ) was done at arm’s length and not at Chantal’s request. 6 In August 2019, BCS commenced the Californian Proceedings against the respondent and one of Chantal’s companies in the US, BCS Pharma Corporation (“BCS Pharma”). In April 2020, the SICC delivered its judgment in Suit 3 (the “Suit 3 Judgment”), in which it held that the respondent had established, at least on a prima facie basis, the existence of the Trust Agreement, and that the Trust was validly constituted. The SICC found that the Trust was valid and enforceable under both Singapore law (which was found to govern the Trust) and California law (which parties submitted on) as the appellants elected not to call any evidence. In June 2020, the respondent, BCS Pharma and BCS agreed to stay the Californian Proceedings pending the appeal in Singapore against the Suit 3 Judgment, which was filed in May 2020. That appeal was dismissed by the Court of Appeal in January 2021, and the stay on the Californian Proceedings was lifted by the US District Court in March 2021. 7 In April 2021, BCS amended its complaint in the Californian Proceedings to add additional defendants and to introduce additional causes of action including a claim in judicial estoppel, premised on Chantal’s false representations in the US Bankruptcy Proceedings. It thus sought a declaratory judgment to estop the respondent as well as the other defendants in the Californian Proceedings from asserting the existence of the Trust.8 The respondent then applied for an ASI to restrain BCS from prosecuting or continuing to prosecute the Californian Proceedings. This was granted by the SICC in so far as these proceedings related to the existence, validity and/or enforceability of the Trust. The appellants were also restrained from prosecuting such proceedings in the US and anywhere else in the world against the respondent or the beneficiaries of the Estate in so far as these related to the same subject matter. The appellants appealed, focusing on the judicial estoppel claim. Decision on appeal9 The issuance of the ASI in the present case could be justified on two jurisdictional bases. First, an abuse of the forum’s court process, or the need to protect the processes, jurisdiction or judgments of the forum court. Second, vexatious and oppressive conduct, in that it would also be vexatious and oppressive to the respondent for BCS to seek to relitigate in the Californian Proceedings matters which were already decided between the parties by reason of the Suit 3 Judgment. Under the first jurisdictional basis, the grant of an ASI was founded on the inherent power of the forum court to protect the integrity of its processes once set in motion. On the other hand, where the court granted an ASI under the second jurisdictional basis, this was in the exercise of the court’s equitable jurisdiction to restrain unconscionable conduct or the unconscientious exercise of legal rights: at [53]–[54].10 An overlap between these two jurisdictional bases occurred not infrequently as the reported cases did not always distinguish between the precise jurisdictional bases for the grant of an ASI. Nevertheless, an overriding principle of the court’s broad power in granting an ASI was that it would be granted where it was in the interests of justice to do so, and the categories of cases engaging these two bases were not closed. Further, two factors typically considered in the grant of an ASI under the equitable jurisdiction – that of the natural forum for the resolution of the dispute between the parties, and alleged injustice to the defendants to an ASI from an injunction depriving  them of the advantages sought in the foreign proceedings – had no relevance in the case of an ASI granted to protect the processes, jurisdiction or judgments of the forum court in the exercise of the court’s inherent jurisdiction: at [55]–[56].11 The claim in judicial estoppel was directed at the enforcement of the Trust, and was premised on the same factual basis (namely, Chantal’s false representations in the US Bankruptcy Proceedings) as relied on by the appellants in Suit 3 to argue that the alleged Trust was illegal as a matter of Singapore law and California law. In substance, therefore, the claim in judicial estoppel was raised and decided in Suit 3. If BCS succeeded in its claim in judicial estoppel in the Californian Proceedings, this would result in the defendants in the Californian Proceedings being liable to BCS for the Trust Assets and Trust Moneys that were determined in Suit 3 to belong to the respondent: at [60]–[63]. 12 The SICC had drawn a distinction between consecutive proceedings, where the forum court has already issued a judgment; and concurrent proceedings, where such a judgment had yet to be rendered at the time when the action was commenced in the foreign jurisdiction. In the former situation, it would be vexatious and oppressive for the defendant to an ASI to commence foreign proceedings, so as to relitigate issues that had been decided by the forum court. It was therefore crucial for the forum court to examine the status of the two proceedings at the time when the ASI was sought. Here, the ASI was only sought by the respondent after the Singapore courts had conclusively determined the enforceability of the Trust, and the rights of the respondent to the Trust Assets and Trust Moneys. To the extent that BCS’s claims in the Californian Proceedings sought to challenge or relitigate the findings in the Suit 3 Judgment, that would clearly constitute an abuse of the forum court’s process and vexatious and oppressive conduct: at [36], [72]. 13 Where an injunction was sought on the basis that the defendant’s conduct constituted an abuse of the forum court’s process, it was not generally necessary to demonstrate that the court was the natural forum for the dispute which was the subject matter in the foreign court.  Further, in deciding whether the proceedings were consecutive or concurrent, what was material was to examine when the specific claim to which the ASI was directed to enjoin was introduced in the foreign proceedings. Here, the Californian Proceedings in so far as the claim in judicial estoppel was concerned was consecutive to the Suit 3 Judgment. Where, as in the present case, a judgment on the merits had been issued in the forum court which was in substance identical to the specific dispute raised in the foreign proceedings, it would be plainly incongruous and perhaps even disingenuous for the party resisting the ASI to suggest that the natural forum for that dispute was nonetheless in some other jurisdiction: at [73], [77].  14 The appellants’ argument that they could not reasonably have been expected to raise the doctrine of judicial estoppel in Suit 3 was rejected. It was inherent in a world with different legal systems that parties may rely on the same subject matter to formulate different causes of action. What was crucial was to examine the substance of the cause of action or defence raised in the foreign proceedings. Further, the doctrine was not raised in circumstances where the appellants had already raised other US doctrines and procedural rules. The judicial estoppel claim was either an afterthought or kept in reserve: at [81]–[82], [84].15 The Court of Appeal agreed with the scope of the ASI as ordered by the SICC. Certain other claims in the Californian Proceedings were not raised and therefore not strictly decided in Suit 3, and correctly fell outside the scope of the ASI: at [87]–[90].16 The appellants’ argument that the doctrine of judicial estoppel was an advantage that BCS could enjoy only before the US courts was irrelevant in the context of an ASI granted on the basis of an abuse of the forum court’s process. More injustice would be occasioned to the respondent in having to relitigate matters already decided in Suit 3, were the injunction not issued: at [91]–[93].17 Accordingly, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal: at [94]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
