
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 September 2022Case summaryMichael A Baker (executor of the estate of Chantal Burnison, deceased) v BCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd and others [2022] SGCA(I) 8Civil Appeal No. 3 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA allows the appeal against the decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court to decline to falsify two deductions in the taking of an account. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal clarifies that a non-professional trustee is nevertheless expected to provide an explanation for the breakdown of expenses and to substantiate the same with sufficient supporting evidence, oral or documentary depending on the nature and quantum of such expenses. While a trustee who is able to provide documentary evidence in support of deductions would be placed in a favourable position to discharge his burden of proof, where such documentary evidence is not available, oral evidence may suffice. However, the quality of that oral evidence will naturally be subject to the scrutiny of the court and in this regard, it would be helpful for a trustee to have other cogent evidence to corroborate his oral account: at [30], [33].1 This was an appeal from the decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) to decline to falsify two deductions of US$340,000 and US$50,000 (the “Deductions”) that were reflected in the respondent trustees’ account of trust assets, on the basis that the latter’s explanations for them was reasonable. The appeal turned on the role of the burden of proof in deciding whether these expenses had been validly incurred. Background to the appeal2 The appellant was Mr Michael A Baker, the executor of the estate of Ms Chantal Burnison (the “Estate” and “Chantal”). The respondents were Mr Marcus Weber (“Weber”) and two companies he controlled, namely BCS Business Consulting Services Pte Ltd (“BCS”) and Renslade Holdings Limited (“Renslade (HK)”). 3 In SIC/S 3/2018 (“Suit 3”), which was commenced by the appellant on behalf of the Estate, the SICC held that there was a trust constituted by an oral agreement between Chantal and Weber, and that BCS and/or Renslade (HK) held the rights to the inventions and patents of the compound “Ethocyn” and the income or proceeds generated therefrom (collectively, the “Trust Assets”), and/or the moneys paid by Nu Skin International Inc to BCS (the “Trust Moneys”) on trust for the Estate. This decision was upheld on appeal. On 14 May 2021, the appellant filed SIC/SUM 25/2021 (“SUM 25”) for payment due on the taking of the accounts. 4 In SUM 25, the appellant sought to falsify numerous expenses in the accounts which were broadly termed as “Other outgoings including miscellaneous costs and expenses” (“Other Outgoings”) and amounted to nearly US$3.66m. Supporting documents were not furnished for these expenses and only bare assertions were provided by the respondents in respect of them. The SICC found substantially in favour of the appellant, but declined to falsify the Deductions. The present appeal only pertained to the Deductions. 5 As regards the US$340,000 deduction, Weber had deposed that in or around 2010, Chantal had informed him that a French attorney who was a former friend of Chantal’s daughter, Ms Heika Burnison (“Heika”), was blackmailing Heika. Chantal therefore asked him to pay the French attorney the amount. 6 As for the US$50,000 deduction, Weber had deposed that these were expenditures incurred in setting up the Amarillis Foundation (the “Foundation”) which was, according to Weber, first discussed between Chantal, Weber and a Swiss attorney (“Mr Wehinger”) in 2014; and Chantal had agreed to the by-laws of the Foundation in 2016. Weber deposed that the expenditures included legal fees for preparing the deed of incorporation and the regulations of the Foundation by Mr Wehinger, expenses for the incorporation of the Foundation in Panama, and follow up costs for the administration of the Foundation. 7 The SICC found that the US$340,000 deduction was justified as the situation described by Weber was very specific, and it might have been reasonable in the circumstances that Chantal’s request was not documented. There were also no counterindications that this expense was not directed by Chantal, apart from the appellant’s denial that this ever occurred. Further, no evidence was adduced from Heika to dispute Weber’s account. 8 The SICC was similarly of the view that there was sufficient basis for the US$50,000 deduction. It noted that, in its judgment in Suit 3, it had found that certain meetings in May and July 2016 were for the purposes of discussing how the alleged Trust Assets and/or Trust Moneys were to be returned to Chantal and her daughters through the Foundation. Since it was apparently only at a meeting in December 2016 that Weber claimed to be the beneficial owner of the Trust Assets, it appeared that there were some steps taken towards effecting a transfer of the Trust Assets through the Foundation, and these expenses incurred in doing so would have been properly made.Decision on appeal9 The duty of a trustee to be constantly ready with his account was the “first duty” of a trustee. The accounting procedure allowed the beneficiaries to know the status of the trust property and what transformations it had undergone, and had a substantive purpose in that any personal liability from maladministration of the trust may be ascertained. The onus of proof to explain the trustee’s disbursement was on the trustee since he had the day-to-day management and control over the funds: at [24]–[25].10 It was therefore particularly glaring that the respondents were not ready, over the course of about ten months, to provide even particulars in the form of a breakdown for the “Other Outgoings”, much less furnish any documentary evidence in respect of them. The duty to render proper accounts when called upon was clearly not performed: at [26].11 The trustees’ obligation to account was not satisfied by merely giving particulars of payments made by them, but extended to providing copies of the trust accounts and information as to the investments which represented the trust fund. Although the respondents were not professional trustees in the sense of being engaged in the profession or business relating to trusts, the bare assertions of Weber did not go towards the level of documentation that he ought to have provided in relation to both the fact of payment and the quantum thereof: at [28]–[29], [32].12 There was nothing particularly sophisticated about the essential task of a trustee, whether professional or lay, in documenting expenses. Save for exceptional circumstances, a trustee was expected to provide an explanation for the breakdown of expenses and to substantiate the same with sufficient supporting evidence, oral or documentary depending on the nature and quantum of such expenses. This would particularly be the case for the respondents given Weber’s background and experience: at [30].13 Whilst there was no rigid requirement for the respondents as trustees to always adduce supporting documents for every transaction, that would ultimately depend on the nature of the expenses, the quantum and whether such expenses would typically be reflected in some documentation. Thus, while a trustee who was able to provide documentary evidence in support of deductions would be placed in a favourable position to discharge his burden of proof, where such documentary evidence was not available, oral evidence may suffice. However, the quality of that oral evidence would naturally be subject to the scrutiny of the court and in this regard, it would be helpful for a trustee to have other cogent evidence to corroborate his oral account: at [33].14 The reasons provided by the SICC for finding that the US$340,000 deduction was justified did not support the refusal to falsify the specific and substantial expense. Taking the respondent’s case at its highest that, given the nature of the expense, Chantal might not have reduced her instructions into writing, the fact remained that such expenses should readily be supported by some form of documentation. The specificity of the situation described by Weber did not compensate for or account for the total absence of any material detail in respect of the deduction: at [38]–[39].15 The irresistible inference was that the respondents had failed to provide any details of this expense for the simple reason that it would have led to a train of inquiry which may well disprove this expense. For the court to allow this deduction would be to impermissibly reverse the burden of proof on the appellant: at [43].16 As for the US$50,000 deduction, the mere fact that strict records of Chantal’s instructions and approvals might not always be kept did not detract from the fact that there should nonetheless be supporting third-party documents for this expense. Further, any evidence supporting the existence of the Foundation was wanting: at [45], [47].17 Taking the respondents’ case at its highest that Chantal was aware of the Foundation and that some work might have been carried out to set up the Foundation, the issue was whether the specific deduction of US$50,000 should be falsified, bearing in mind the nature of the expense and the total absence of any documents in support of this specific expense. If the respondents sought to justify this deduction with such bare and plainly unsatisfactory information, they stood the risk that the court may find that the burden of proof in respect of the deduction had not been discharged. Any other view would denude the legal effect of placing such a burden of proof on the respondents: at [48]–[49].18 Although the appellant invited the Court of Appeal to presume against the respondents for their failure to keep proper records of the Deduction, it was not necessary to do so in the light of the court’s finding that the respondents had not discharged their burden of proof. The presumption was more applicable in a situation where an assessment of value or damages had become problematic due to wrongdoing by a trustee. In the present case, no evidence at all had been furnished by the respondents, and there was no real contest as to any ascertainment of value or loss. The respondents had failed to satisfy their burden of proof to show that the alleged expenses were incurred and properly so, and the issue of drawing any presumption as regards any ambiguity of the quantum of the expense did not arise: at [53], [55], [57].19 Accordingly, the Court of Appeal allowed the appeal: at [58]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
