
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE16 September 2022Case summaryThe Law Society of Singapore v Naidu Priyalatha [2022] SGHC 224Court of Three Judges – Originating Summons No 8 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: C3J orders that a solicitor who breached her undertaking be suspended for three months. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where a solicitor chooses to deliberately breach an undertaking that was given in a professional capacity, there is prima facie cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action. All solicitors should do their utmost to abide by the undertakings they give, and should they have any doubt about their ability to do so, no undertaking should be given: at [40]. Background and material facts 1 The respondent solicitor (the “Respondent”) was admitted to the roll of advocates and solicitors on 8 October 1980. At the material time, the Respondent was the sole proprietor of the firm Messrs P. Naidu. 2 The Respondent represented two shareholders and directors (the “Respondent’s Clients”) of Balestier Hui Kee Pte Ltd (the “Company”) who had a dispute with another shareholder and director (the “Complainant”). The dispute concerned the Complainant’s alleged discovery that the Respondent’s Clients had made unauthorised withdrawals from the Company’s bank account and the Complainant’s subsequent decision not to deposit the Company’s cash into that account. 3 The Respondent’s Clients threatened to sue the Complainant and another employee, Seah Sai Hong (“Seah”), for the return of the cash. 4 On 28 February 2017, the Complainant and Seah made a settlement offer that included a term that they would return the cash by way of a cashier’s order (the “Cashier’s Order”). On 29 March 2017, the Respondent asked for the Cashier’s Order to be given to her, failing which legal action would be commenced. The Complainant and Seah agreed to hand over the Cashier’s Order subject to an undertaking from the Respondent not to release the Cashier’s Order to the Respondent’s Clients until a comprehensive agreement had been reached between the parties in full and final settlement of all issues and claims (the “Undertaking”). The Respondent agreed to give the Undertaking on 30 March 2017.5 No settlement was forthcoming, and the Respondent’s Clients subsequently commenced legal proceedings against the Complainant and Seah. On 4 May 2017, the Complainant and Seah requested the return of the Cashier’s Order. On 9 May 2017, the Respondent informed them that the Cashier’s Order had been held until 18 April 2017, after which it was deposited by the Respondent’s Clients in the Company’s bank account. 6 A settlement was eventually reached between the Complainant and Seah and the Respondent’s Clients in April 2018. 7 On 29 November 2019, the Complainant complained to the Council of the Law Society of Singapore that the Respondent had breached the Undertaking. On 26 January 2021, a Disciplinary Tribunal (the “DT”) was appointed to hear and investigate the complaint. 8 The Respondent pleaded guilty to a charge of grossly improper conduct under s 83(2) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”), and the main issue for the DT was whether cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action existed. Both the Law Society and the Respondent took the position that no cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action existed. However, the DT was of the view that the Respondent’s breach of the Undertaking was deliberate, and that cause of sufficient gravity under s 83 of the LPA existed. The matter thus came up before the Court of Three JudgesThe Court’s grounds of decision9 An undertaking given by a solicitor is a solemn promise that is not merely an agreement or a contract. Having been given by a member of the legal profession, a solicitor’s undertaking is accorded a unique status that allows the average person and the court to rely on it without question: at [31] to [32].10 A solicitor should only give an undertaking with which the undertaking solicitor is able to comply. If the solicitor breaches an undertaking, there may be legal repercussions and possible disciplinary action: at [32]. 11 Where a solicitor chooses to deliberately breach an undertaking that was given in a professional capacity, there is prima facie cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action. All solicitors should do their utmost to abide by the undertakings they give, and should they have any doubt about their ability to do so, no undertaking should be given: at [40]. 12 The Respondent had committed a deliberate breach of the Undertaking when she handed the Cashier’s Order to her Clients in the absence of a settlement between the parties. The fact that the Respondent was facing pressure from the Respondent’s Clients was not a reason for her to breach the Undertaking. Accordingly, cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action was made out: at [41].13 By releasing the Cashier’s order to the Respondent’s Clients in breach of the Undertaking, the Respondent had done precisely what the Complainant and Seah had sought to prevent by obtaining the Undertaking. The fact that no loss had been shown to have been incurred by the Complainant was equivocal at best. Given the seriousness of a deliberate breach of a solicitor’s undertaking, due cause for disciplinary action was established: at [43] to [44]. 14 As for the appropriate sanction to be imposed, the Court did not consider a fine appropriate. However, the breach in this particular case was not serious enough to call for a striking off: at [53] to [55]. 15 The Court was satisfied that a term of suspension was called for in the present case. First, there was a need to protect public confidence in the integrity of the legal profession and to ensure that the public would be able to trust lawyers to keep the promises they have made in their professional capacity. Second, there was a need for the Court to show its clear disapprobation of deliberate breaches of undertakings by a solicitor, as a matter of specific and general deterrence: at [56]. 16 As for the appropriate length of the suspension, the Court considered a term of suspension of three months appropriate. First, the Respondent was a senior lawyer of over 36 years’ standing at the material time and should have understood the importance of keeping to a professional undertaking. Second, while the Respondent had been forthcoming with the details of her breach, this was only after the Respondent’s Clients had commenced legal proceedings and she knew that there was no settlement forthcoming between the parties. Third, she had only herself to blame for placing herself in a position where she could not comply with the Undertaking. Fourth, she had made a deliberate choice to breach the Undertaking: at [58]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
