
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 September 2022Case summaryCA/CM 10/2022 Adeeb Ahmed Khan s/o Iqbal Ahmed Khan v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 61--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: CoA dismisses, without an oral hearing, criminal motion by an offender seeking permission to appeal against his sentence out of time.Background and facts1 The applicant, Adeeb Ahmed Khan s/o Iqbal Ahmed Khan, had been charged for several offences that were dealt with in two sets of proceedings before the District Court and the High Court respectively, and did not contest either set of proceedings. 2 In the proceedings before the District Court, he pleaded guilty and was convicted on 24 August 2021 on two charges, one each under ss 8(a) for possession of not less than 1.59g of methamphetamine and under 8(b)(ii) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”) for consumption of methamphetamine punishable under ss 33(1) and 33A(1) of the MDA. He was sentenced in the aggregate to five years’ imprisonment with effect from 3 May 2017 and three strokes of the cane. 3 In the proceedings before the General Division of the High Court, he pleaded guilty and was convicted by the High Court judge (“the Judge”) some days later, on 30 August 2021, of a separate charge of abetting possession for the purpose of trafficking in not less than 166.99g of methamphetamine under s 5(1)(a) read with ss 5(2) and 12 of the MDA and punishable under s 33(4A)(i) of the MDA. He was sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment and 14 strokes of the cane. The term of imprisonment for the latter proceedings was to commence after the sentence imposed by the District Court. Another charge of conspiring to possess 329.99g of cannabis for the purpose of trafficking was taken into consideration when the High Court sentenced the applicant. 4 His aggregate sentence arising from the two sets of proceedings was 20 years’ imprisonment backdated to the date of his arrest on 3 May 2017 and 17 strokes of the cane. 5 On 21 April 2022, almost eight months after his conviction and sentence by the High Court, the applicant filed this criminal motion seeking an extension of time to appeal against the sentence that was meted out to him by the High Court. Decision6 In the criminal context, where a litigant fails to invoke its right of appeal in a timely way, as long as the court is satisfied that this stemmed from some oversight rather than because of an election to accept the merits of the first instance decision, it may exercise its discretion to extend the time for the appeal to be filed in accordance with the analytical framework set out in Lim Hong Kheng v Public Prosecutor [2006] 3 SLR (R) 358 (“Lim Hong Kheng”). The court will consider the length of delay in the prosecution of the appeal, the explanation put forward for the delay and the prospects of the appeal. The length of time by which the applicable time line is exceeded will be material. The longer that time, the greater the scrutiny applied by the court to the merits of the prospective appeal (at [1], [19] and [26(a)]).7 Where, however, because of the inordinate length of time by which any applicable time limit for filing an appeal has been exceeded, or because of the absence of any explanation to account for the failure to invoke the right of appeal in a timely way, or because of a combination of these and/or other factors, the court concludes that the applicant had elected to accept the merits of the original decision, then the more demanding threshold that was laid down in Public Prosecutor v Pang Chie Wei and other matters [2022] 1 SLR 452 (“Pang Chie Wei”) will have to be crossed before permission will be given to bring an appeal despite the passage of time (at [2] and [21]).8 In the context of applications for an extension of time to file an appeal, the test of substantial injustice in Pang Chie Wei is adapted by not limiting the material advanced by the applicant to “new” material. Thus, where an applicant seeks to set aside his conviction, an injustice will only have arisen if material is advanced that strikes at the soundness of the conviction in a fundamental way and the material points to a powerful probability that his conviction is unsound and the facts do not disclose any other offence of comparable gravity. Where an applicant seeks to challenge his sentence, an injustice will only have arisen if material is advanced that shows that the earlier decision was based on a fundamental misapprehension of the law and the said misapprehension had a significant bearing on the sentence imposed. The court must be mindful of all the facts before concluding that the outcome would very likely have been different (at [22] to [24]). 9 The determination of whether the case at hand falls within the category of cases where the delay is due to some oversight or the category of cases where the court concludes that the intending appeal is an afterthought coming after an earlier election to accept the finality of the particular judgment will be significantly influenced by the length of time that has passed without an appeal being filed. But it will nevertheless be a holistic inquiry in which the court will examine all the factors including the submissions made at the original hearing, the reasons advanced for the delay and any other factors (at [26(b)]).10 The applicable framework in the present case was that laid down in Pang Chie Wei. It was evident that the applicant accepted the finality and correctness of the decision of the Judge from the following facts (at [28]):a. After the decision of the Judge was rendered on 30 August 2021, nothing was done by the applicant to challenge that decision for a period of more than seven months.b. No sensible explanation was advanced from the applicant to account for the delay. His allegation that he decided not to appeal because of a computation error made by the Singapore Prison Service as regards his earliest date of release made no sense.c. The applicant himself sought a sentence of “less than 15 years’ imprisonment and caning” in his mitigation plea with the result that the aggregate sentence would be “just slightly less than 20 years”. He also contended for the Judge to adjust the final sentence in view of the totality principle given the separate sentence that was imposed by the District Court. The sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment and 14 strokes of the cane was very close to what the applicant had sought and this was the likely explanation for his failure to file a timeous appeal. 11 The applicant failed to identify any fundamental misapprehension of law let alone show that there would be a significant bearing on his sentence. There was also no basis for the applicant to assert that the sentences imposed by the District Court and High Court were manifestly excessive. The sentence imposed by the District Court of five years’ imprisonment and three strokes of the cane for the consumption of methamphetamine under s 8(b)(ii) of the MDA was the mandatory minimum sentence prescribed by s 33A(1) of the MDA since the applicant was a repeat offender. Despite the sentence of eight months’ imprisonment for possession of 1.59g of methamphetamine that was ordered to run concurrently with the sentence of five years’ imprisonment and three strokes of the cane and the seven other charges that were taken into consideration, the applicant was sentenced to the mandatory minimum only. In short, there could not have been a lower sentence imposed by the District Court (at [30]).12 The sentence imposed by the High Court of 15 years’ imprisonment and 14 strokes of the cane for one charge of abetment by conspiracy for Azmi to possess for the purpose of trafficking in not less than 166.99g of methamphetamine under s 5(1)(a) read with ss 5(2) and 12 of the MDA was at the low end of the sentencing band. The applicant had also admitted to another charge of abetment by conspiracy for Azmi to possess for the purpose of trafficking in not less than 329.99g of cannabis and consented for it to be taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing (at [31]).13 Since the applicant was a repeat offender, the indicative starting sentence was 19 years’ imprisonment and 14 strokes of the cane. Considering the aggravating factor of another drug trafficking charge in not less than 329.99g of cannabis that was taken into consideration and his various drug-related antecedents and the mitigating factors of his early plea of guilt and cooperation with the authorities, the Judge had given a generous discount which left the applicant facing a sentence at the low end of the band (at [40]). 14 The Court was amply satisfied that the Judge correctly applied her mind to the applicant’s mitigation and the sentence imposed by the District Court in coming to the view that the sentence of 15 years’ imprisonment and 14 strokes of the cane was appropriate. The applicant did not satisfy the Court that there was any fundamental misapprehension of the law much less any injustice that had any bearing on the sentence imposed. The applicant’s contention that his aggregate sentence would have been lower if all the charges from the two sets of proceedings had been heard before the Judge was categorically rejected (at [43] and [44]).15 In any event, even applying the framework in Lim Hong Kheng, the applicant’s criminal motion would have been dismissed (at [45]). This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
