
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE9 September 2022Case summaryReed, Michael v Bellingham, Alex (Attorney-General, intervener) [2022] SGCA 60 Civil Appeal No 174 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ, Andrew Phang Boon Leong JCA and Judith Prakash JCA) (judgment delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):Outcome: CoA restores DJ’s order for an injunction against the use, disclosure or communication by the respondent of the appellant’s personal data in breach of the Personal Data Protection Act (2012).Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Suffering emotional distress directly as a result of a contravention of Parts IV to VI of the Personal Data Protection Act 2012 (Act 26 of 2012) (“PDPA”) was an actionable head of “loss or damage” under s 32(1) of the PDPA. Section 32 would be significantly denuded of practical use if that were not so. It would not be uncommon for emotional distress to be the only loss or damage suffered as a result of a breach of Parts IV to VI of the PDPA (at [99] and [107]).•  Mere loss of control over personal data was not an actionable head of “loss or damage’ under s 32(1) of the PDPA because every contravention of Parts IV to VI of the PDPA would result in such loss of control (at [109] and [110]). The material facts1 IP Investment Management Pte Ltd (“IPIM”) and IP Real Estate Investments Pte Ltd (“IPRE”) (together, “the Employers”) were connected companies in the business of managing funds. IP Investment Management (HK) Ltd (“IPIM HK”) was another associate. The respondent (“Mr Bellingham”) was originally employed by IPRE but was seconded to IPIM HK in 2016. Mr Bellingham’s role included the management of an investment fund known as the “Edinburgh Fund”. 2 In January 2017, Mr Bellingham left the employ of IPRE and joined a competitor known as Q Investment Partners Pte Ltd (“QIP”) as its “Head of Fund Raising”. QIP was set up by the former Chief Executive Officer of IPIM. 3 In August 2018, Mr Bellingham contacted some investors in the Edinburgh Fund, including the appellant (“Mr Reed”) whom he had come to know of through his employment with IPIM. In an email sent to Mr Reed on 15 August 2018, Mr Bellingham referenced Mr Reed’s upcoming exit from the Edinburgh Fund and introduced certain investment opportunities with QIP.4 Mr Reed found it unacceptable that Mr Bellingham knew his name, personal email address and investment activity in the Edinburgh Fund (collectively, “the Personal Data”). On 21 August 2018, Mr Reed reported the matter to IPIM. On the same day, IPIM’s solicitors, M/s Allen & Gledhill LLP (“A&G”), sent Mr Bellingham a letter that, among other things, demanded that Mr Bellingham undertake that he and QIP would not make any further unauthorised use of the Personal Data.5 On 28 August 2018, Mr Reed wrote to Mr Bellingham asking how Mr Bellingham had accessed the Personal Data and how he would protect it. In early September 2018, Mr Bellingham replied to A&G and Mr Reed separately stating that he would not contact Mr Reed further but did not respond to the allegation of misuse of “privileged information”.6 On 1 October 2018, the Employers commenced a private action in the State Courts under s 32 of the PDPA. Mr Reed was joined as a party to the action on 23 May 2019. The District Judge (“DJ”) denied the Employers relief. They lacked legal standing to bring the action since it was not their personal data that had been misused. The DJ, however, (a) injuncted Mr Bellingham from using, disclosing or communicating the Personal Data; and (b) ordered Mr Bellingham to undertake to destroy the Personal Data.7 Dissatisfied with the DJ’s decision, Mr Bellingham filed an appeal in the High Court. The High Court judge (“the Judge”) allowed the appeal. The Judge accepted that Mr Bellingham had contravened ss 13 and 18 of the PDPA by collecting and using the Personal Data to market QIP’s services. However, he held that Mr Reed had suffered no “loss or damage” under s 32(1). To commence a private action under s 32(1) PDPA (“s 32 action”), “loss or damage” must have resulted directly from the breach of Parts IV to VI of the PDPA. The Judge rejected Mr Reed’s argument that his emotional distress and the loss of control over his Personal Data fell within the meaning of “loss or damage”. Mr Reed appealed to the Court of Appeal to restore the DJ’s decision.The decision of the Court of Appeal8 The court allowed the appeal and restored the orders made by the DJ on the ground that Mr Reed had a cause of action because his emotional distress was a form of “loss or damage” within the meaning of s 32(1) PDPA (at [132] and [134]).Mr Bellingham was not exempted from complying with ss 13 and 18 of the PDPA9 If Mr Bellingham had proved that, under s 4(1)(b) PDPA, he was “acting in the course of his employment with an organisation” when the breaches of ss 13 and 18 PDPA occurred, he would not have been liable for these breaches (at [43]).10 The issue of whether, in taking a particular action, an employee acted in the course of his employment was a question of mixed fact and law. Evidence had to be adduced of what was done; what the employment required the employee to do and, in appropriate cases, whether the employee deliberately evaded practices set up by the employer to deter such action. Only then would the court be able to determine whether the employee’s action should be attributed to the employment or whether the employee was off on a frolic of his own (at [51]).11 There was insufficient evidence to prove that Mr Bellingham breached ss 13 and 18 of the PDPA in the course of his employment with IPRE or QIP. This paucity of evidence was primarily attributable to the fact that Mr Bellingham had not invoked s 4(1)(b) as a defence before the DJ or Judge (at [52] and [53]).12 Granted, the DJ found that Mr Bellingham had collected the Personal Data in the course of his employment with IPRE. However, Mr Bellingham’s wrongful conduct under ss 13 and 18 of the PDPA included misusing the Personal Data. Such misuse took place after Bellingham joined QIP. Therefore, even if s 4(1)(b) exempted Mr Bellingham from the obligation to collect the Personal Data in compliance with the PDPA, thereafter he remained subject to the obligations in ss 13 and 18 governing the use of personal data (at [53]).13 While Mr Bellingham had commenced employment with QIP by the time he first contacted Mr Reed, this temporal connection between employment and the breaches of the PDPA was insufficient to prove that the breaches occurred in the course of and for the purposes of his employment rather than otherwise (at [54]).“Loss or damage” in s 32(1) PDPA included emotional distress14 The process of statutory interpretation consisted of ascertaining: (a) the possible interpretations of the provision; (b) the legislative purpose or object of the statute; and (c) which interpretation would further the purpose of the written text (at [69]).Step (a): the possible interpretations of “loss or damage”15 “[L]oss or damage” in s 32(1) either included emotional distress (“Wide Interpretation”); or excluded it (“Narrow Interpretation”) (at [70]).16 Even if only material damage was actionable under common law, reference to the common law was of limited help, if not inapplicable altogether, since Parliament had expressly created a new cause of action and could recognise damage that the common law did not. Further, it was not an immutable rule of the common law that emotional distress was not actionable in tort. The heads of actionable “damage” in civil law were not set in stone but were instead shaped by questions of policy (at [73] and [74]). 17 Parliament intended to displace the starting position at common law that emotional distress was not actionable. Excluding emotional distress as a head of “loss or damage” under s 32(1) would cut across Parliament’s intention to promote the right of individuals to protect their personal data (at [76] and [77]). 18 Also, nothing in the text and context of s 32(1) justified narrowing the meaning of “loss or damage” (at [85]).Step (b): general and specific purpose19 Regarding the general purpose of the PDPA, while Parliament intended to strike a balance between the interest of individuals in protecting their data and the economic interests that were served in an environment where data could be collected, used and disclosed, the PDPA called for a degree of robustness in the protection afforded to individuals (at [86]–[88]).20 As for the specific purpose of the “loss or damage” requirement in s 32(1), the scope of “loss or damage” should not be read down just to prevent frivolous lawsuits. This floodgates concern was addressed by a strict causal link requirement in s 32(1) and the principle that there was no legal recourse for minimal loss (at [93]).Step (c): ascertaining which interpretation furthered the purpose of the PDPA and s 32(1)21 The Wide Interpretation better promoted the general purpose of the PDPA and the specific purpose of s 32(1) (at [96]).22 Parliament intended to provide robust protection for individuals’ personal data. The vast and ever-increasing volume of personal data being collected and processed increased the risk of misuse of personal data. Remedial options in the PDPA, including s 32, must have been intended to be effective in guarding the right of individuals to protect their personal data. Section 32 would be significantly denuded of practical use if the Narrow Interpretation were adopted. It would not be uncommon for emotional distress to be the only loss or damage suffered (at [98] and [99]).23 Availability of injunctive and declaratory relief under s 32(3)(a) signalled Parliament’s recognition that the loss or damage caused by breaches of the PDPA may not be adequately compensated by damages or susceptible to easy quantification (at [101]).24 Further, the specific purpose of s 32(1) PDPA was furthered by the Wide Interpretation. Section 32, forming part of the enforcement regime of the PDPA, had to be an effective means by which individuals may enforce the right to protect their personal data (at [104]).“[L]oss or damage” in s 32(1) PDPA excluded mere loss of control over personal data25 Every contravention of Parts IV to VI of the PDPA (a breach of which was necessary to establish a s 32 action) inevitably involved some form of loss of control over personal data. Accepting that “loss or damage” in s 32(1) included mere loss of control over personal data would render that requirement in s 32(1) tautologous (at [109] and [110]).Mr Reed suffered emotional distress26 The inquiry was whether the very individual before the court subjectively suffered emotional distress. A multi-factorial approach was suitable for determining whether an individual had suffered emotional distress. Relevant factors included the nature of the personal data involved in the breach and the nature of the defendant’s conduct. Negative emotions that should be tolerated as part of the ordinary vicissitudes of life did not amount to emotional distress (at [114]–[116]). 27 The Judge erred in dismissing Mr Reed’s allegation of emotional distress. What tipped the scales in Mr Reed’s favour was Mr Bellingham’s unreasonable refusal to give him an undertaking not to use the Personal Data in the future (at [118]). Mr Bellingham merely promised to cease contact with Mr Reed. But the Personal Data was still in his possession and vulnerable to misuse (at [125]). Even to an outside observer, Mr Bellingham would have come across as dismissive and cavalier about the need to protect the Personal Data (at [128]). 28 Other factors supported a finding of distress. Firstly, the Personal Data included information about Mr Reed’s personal investments (at [129]). Secondly, at the time State Court proceedings had commenced, Mr Reed reasonably perceived a real prospect of future misuse of the Personal Data given Mr Bellingham’s refusal to offer an undertaking (at [130]). Thirdly, Mr Bellingham was evasive when confronted about the use of the Personal Data and dismissive of Mr Reed’s concerns about the Personal Data (at [131]). 29 Mr Reed acquired a right of action under s 32(1) because his emotional distress constituted “loss or damage” within the meaning of that provision (at [133]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
