
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE17 November 2023Case summaryChan Pik Sun v Wan Hoe Keet and others [2023] SGHC(A) 36Appellate Division of the High Court – Originating Application No 46 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):Outcome: The Appellate Division of the High Court (“the Appellate Division”) granted the application (“the PTA Application”) of a party (“the Applicant”) seeking permission to appeal against the decision of the judge in the General Division of the High Court (“the Judge”) on the quantum of costs payable by the Applicant. The Appellate Division held that the time for filing of an appeal only started to run when the Judge had determined the question of quantum, and not when the Judge had only decided on the merits of the claims and the Applicant’s liability to pay costs. The Appellate Division also held that the Applicant did not have to satisfy the usual grounds for obtaining permission to appeal.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Notwithstanding that a court might state that costs are to be “assessed”, the entirety of the court’s directions must be read in context to determine if the court was in fact referring to “assessment” in the technical sense, which envisaged the submission of a bill of costs as the initial stage of the process, or if the court was merely directing that costs were to be “fixed” at a later date: at [12].•  If there were split decisions such that the unsuccessful party had to file an appeal on the merits of the claims first and then file another one on costs, and the costs issue was independent of the outcome of the appeal on the merits of the claims, that party would require permission to appeal the costs issue. This might occur when a court had decided the merits of the claims and liability for costs before deciding the quantum of costs. In such situations, permission to appeal would generally be granted if the appellant was agreeable to both appeals being consolidated or fixed for hearing together: at [21]–[24].Background 1 On 14 April 2023, the Judge issued his decision (“the Main Decision”) in which he dismissed all the claims of the Applicant against the respondents in this application (“the Respondents”) in the underlying suit and awarded the Respondents “costs to be assessed, if not agreed”. He also directed that “[u]nless the parties agree on costs, they shall put in their costs submissions … within three weeks”. 2  The Applicant filed a notice of appeal on 11 May 2023 against the whole of the Main Decision. The Applicant took the view that the time for filing of an appeal had started to run from 14 April 2023 since the Judge had said that costs were to be “assessed”, whereas the Respondents took the view, in a letter to court dated 17 May 2023, that the filing of a notice of appeal against the Main Decision was premature as the parties had not agreed and the Judge had not determined the quantum of costs. At a subsequent case management conference, an Assistant Registrar informed the parties that the Judge was of the view that the time to file an appeal ran from 14 April 2023, and parties then proceeded on that basis,3 Thereafter, on 11 September 2023, the Judge issued his decision on the quantum of costs for which the Applicant was liable (“the Costs Decision”). The Applicant made the PTA Application on 25 September 2023 in respect of the Costs Decision, except for the sum of $59,040.41 which was not in dispute.Decision of the court4 An assessment did not simply refer to an evaluation of costs by the court following further submissions; rather, an assessment involved an entirely different process that began with the submission of a bill of costs, which contrasted with the fixing of costs. Accordingly, notwithstanding that a court might state that costs were to be “assessed”, the entirety of the court’s directions must be read in context to determine if the court was in fact referring to “assessment” in the technical sense, which envisaged the submission of a bill of costs as the initial stage of the process, or if the court was merely directing that costs were to be “fixed” at a later date: at [12].5 Although the Judge did direct costs “to be assessed”, there was a second sentence where he directed that parties file their costs submissions without mentioning a bill of costs. The two sentences, when read together, meant that when the Judge referred to an assessment of the costs, he was not using the word “assessed” in the technical sense but used it to mean that he would evaluate or “fix” the costs himself. Consequently, this meant that there was no determination yet on the issues of costs on 14 April 2023 when he directed costs “to be assessed” and that the time to file any appeal did not run from 14 April 2023: at [13].6 Therefore, had the Applicant not already filed an appeal against the Main Decision, the Applicant would only have had to file a single appeal on both the Main Decision and the Costs Decision, provided that she did that within 28 days from 11 September 2023, the date of the Costs Decision. However, since the Applicant had filed an appeal against the Main Decision, and her intended appeal on the Costs Decision appeared to be independent of the outcome of the appeal against the Main Decision, she had to file a separate notice of appeal against the Costs Decision; and, to do so, she required permission: at [14]–[16].7 The Applicant did not have to satisfy the usual requirements for obtaining permission to appeal. The Judge had made a split decision where he decided on the merits of the claims and liability for costs first before deciding the quantum of costs, and the Applicant found herself in the position where she had already appealed the former (ie, the Main Decision) and thereafter sought permission in the PTA Application to appeal the latter (ie, the Costs Decision). In this situation, permission to appeal would generally be granted if the Applicant was agreeable to both appeals being consolidated or fixed together. In the circumstances, there was no reason why permission to appeal should be denied: at [21]–[24] and [26]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
