
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE31 August 2022Case summaryPT Adidaya Energy Mandiri v MS First Capital Insurance Ltd [2022] SGHC(I) 14--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Jeremy Lionel Cooke IJ):Outcome: SICC dismisses insurance claim for damage to Single Point Mooring Buoy “Banner Hex SPM Hex 06” (“SPM”) as a result of collisions with the storage vessel attached to it. Background1 The plaintiff claimed from its insurer, the defendant, the sum of US$4,700,000 as the insured value (“the Insured Value”) of the SPM as a constructive total loss (“CTL”) as a result of damage which occurred in collisions with the storage vessel attached to the SPM. It also claimed the sum of US$2,165,528.71 as Sue and Labour charges (“S & L”) for expense incurred for the purpose of averting a CTL. The defendant denied that the SPM was a CTL, or that it was otherwise liable to pay the plaintiff under the insurance policy (“the Policy”).2 The plaintiff also sought rectification of the Policy by deletion of cll 1, 2, 3 and 5–10 of the warranties (“the Warranties”) on the basis that they were included in the Policy by the defendant’s unilateral mistake. The defendant denied the plaintiff’s allegation and took the position that they were agreed to by the parties.3 It was common ground between the parties that the SPM was badly damaged and had, among others, one fracture in each of the side shell plating of Compartments Nos 4 and 5 (“the Compartments”) and lost skirts (pipe fender and attached plating) adjacent to Compartment Nos 1, 4, 5 and 6. Due to the side shell fractures, the Compartments were flooded and in such condition, the relevant experts agreed that the SPM was at risk of sinking. Furthermore, the loss of buoyancy and entrained water inside the Compartments adversely affected the stability of the SPM. 4 Temporary emergency repairs to the Compartments were carried out at the end of August and in late September 2018. By the end of September 2018, the water had been drained from both Compartments, the temporary repairs were complete and the SPM was no longer listing. By October 2019, the SPM no longer had a skirt such that the classification society (“ABS”) only required that its “sharp edges” had to be ground off.The material facts5 The plaintiff subscribed to Slip No HMH 180152/001 dated 14 April 2018 (“the Slip”), which named the plaintiff, among its other related entities, as the “Assured” for the “Interests” of a “Marine & Subsea Equipment Insurance”  for the SPM. The “Main Conditions” were as per “Machinery & Equipment All Risks Policy (Marine & Subsea Equipment Policy Wordings), but amended to insure for total loss only on physical damage to property”. The “Clause Wordings” of the Slip included a law and jurisdiction clause in favour of Singapore and other clauses, with “all other terms and conditions unchanged”. On the documents and the evidence of both the broker and the underwriter, the terms of the insurance were originally to be found in the Slip which expressly incorporated the Machinery & Equipment All Risks Policy (Marine & Subsea Equipment Policy Wordings), which was then superseded by the Policy issued on 26 October 2018 which properly reflected those terms.6 The Policy contained several clauses and definitions pertinent to the dispute. A “Condition Precedent” was defined to be a “clause where compliance is strictly required in all respects”, the failure of which “may prevent [the Assured] from making a claim under the Policy or may discharge [the defendant’s] liability under the Policy”. The Policy contained, as part of the “General Claims Conditions Applicable to All Sections”, a “Claims Notification Clause” which provided that it was a “strict Condition Precedent” to the defendant’s liability under the Policy that “in the event of the Assured becoming aware of any incident giving rise to a claim which may be covered under this Policy that [the defendant] be given written notification of such circumstances within thirty days”. If the time period was not complied with, the defendant “will not be liable under this Policy or otherwise”. Another clause in that section stipulated that the defendant would “in addition to any loss recoverable under this Policy, reimburse the Assured for any charge properly and reasonably incurred in pursuance of the duties contained within these General Claims Conditions applicable to all Sections”.7 “Warranties” were stated to be “clauses setting out information provided by the Assured as to the current or future state of affairs, requiring steps to be taken or not taken by the Assured and based upon which [the defendant has] chosen to underwrite this risk”. If a Warranty was breached, the defendant may have “no liability in respect of any loss which happens after the breach has occurred but before it is remedied”. Clause 1 of the Warranties provided that the “Insured Equipment is only to be operated by and under the supervision of suitably trained and authorised personnel” and cl 8 of the Warranties provided that “[s]uitable precautions and preservation/maintenance measures to be adopted when storing, handling, transporting and operating Insured Equipment”. 8 In addition to the Law and Jurisdiction clause in favour of Singapore, the Policy also contained a Marine Insurance Act Clause providing that “it is expressly agreed and declared that all of the terms, conditions, warranties and other matters contained within the [English] Marine Insurance Act 1906 (as amended by the Insurance Act 2015) [“IA (UK)”] shall still be applicable to this Policy” (collectively, “MIA (UK)”).9 It was common ground that following collisions between the SPM and the Bratasena, which was acting as the storage vessel (the “FSO” or “the Vessel”) attached to the SPM, the SPM was damaged and that repairs were effected to the SPM, the extent and permanence of which was in dispute. It was however accepted that the total sum actually spent on repairs by the plaintiff could not give rise to a CTL. The plaintiff, after obtaining quotations for repairs, tendered its notice of abandonment on 22 May 2019 (“NOA”) which the defendant rejected on 31 May 2019. 10 On 25 June 2019, the plaintiff sold the SPM to another company related to it through a common shareholder and his wife for US$400,000 which was agreed, in a joint experts’ memorandum, to be a considerable undervalue. Except for periods when repairs were being conducted to the SPM in situ, the plaintiff continued to utilise the SPM at all times until sale, collecting revenue from it until that point. Following such sale, it has continued in operation in situ, with further repairs being carried out there which took place in October–November 2019.The court’s ground of decision11 There was no basis available to the plaintiff upon which to pursue a claim for rectification of the Policy. The terms of the insurance were the subject of negotiation between a professional broker and an underwriter and were contained in documents agreed between them and it was clear that the parties embodied their entire agreement in the written contract documents, which were reflected in the Policy. It could not  be said that there was anything akin to unconscionable conduct on the defendant’s part which would justify the grant of the equitable remedy of rectification in the course of a standard negotiation of terms between a broker and underwriter. Nor was there evidence of any mistake as to the terms of the Policy agreed between the professional broker and underwriter. The underwriter was not cross-examined on any unilateral mistake on his part and the plaintiff’s rectification case was not put to him: at [8]–[11] and [27(d)]. 12 The question arose whether the Warranties were of application to what was or was not done by the Vessel, its Officers and crew. The SPM was to function in conjunction with the Vessel. The SPM, on its own and without any FSO, could not perform its intended function and it would be senseless to consider the handling or operating of the SPM without reference to the FSO. Although the SPM was unmanned, it was connected to and operated together with the Vessel as part of the condensate storage and offloading facility in the Yetagun Gas Field. It was therefore critical to the operation of the SPM that the SPM and the Vessel should be kept apart so as not to collide one with the other: at [53]–[54], [135], [137] and [143].13 The phrase “shall still be applicable” in the Marine Insurance Act Clause suggested that parties specifically considered, intended and agreed to incorporate “all of the terms, conditions, warranties and other matters” contained in the MIA (UK) even though the proper law was Singapore law. On an objective interpretation of the Marine Insurance Act Clause, the parties’ common intention was for the MIA (UK) to apply. Section 10 of the MIA (UK) thus applied in relation to the effect of breaches of warranties, which was that an insurer has no liability under a contract of insurance in respect of any loss occurring, or attributable to something happening, after a warranty (express or implied) in the contract has been breached but before the breach has been remedied: at [131] and [139].14 As between the plaintiff, as the Assured, and the defendant, as insurer, the plaintiff had warranted a state of affairs in the future and breached that warranty if that state of affairs did not eventuate, whether or not another entity was responsible to it for those matters or it had delegated the specific obligations to some other person. It was not relevant that the Vessel was owned by a separate legal entity. The operation of the SPM necessarily involved appropriate station keeping by the FSO and if appropriate precautions and preservation measures were not adopted to achieve that end by suitably trained and authorised personnel, both cll 1 and 8 of the Warranties would be breached: at [140] and [144].15 The plaintiff breached cl 8 of the Warranties. It was clear that the requirement to have a static tow available at all times was a suitable precaution and preservation measure which should have been adopted in relation to the SPM and Vessel and was thus required under cl 8 of the Warranties. After the first collision which formed the factual backdrop of the claim (which was, 1 July 2018), if not before, that should have been obvious but, regardless of whether it was appreciated at the time, it was a suitable precaution which should have been in place on an objective view. Other failures in the provision of suitable precautions and preservation measures included the absence of 24/7 watchkeeping on the part of the Vessel’s crew which would have enabled the Master or Chief Officer on the bridge to call on the services of the static tow tug, when required, and the failure to secure the disconnected end of the export hose so as not to impede the use of the Vessel’s main engines and propeller: at [124]–[125] and [146]–[147].16 The legal burden was on the defendant to establish a breach of at least one of the Warranties. In the light of the expert witness’ strong criticisms of the seamanship of those on board the Vessel which resulted in extensive damage to the SPM and the Vessel, however, the evidential burden of showing suitable training and authorisation shifted to the plaintiff which could have readily provided such evidence. The plaintiff failed to do so. Clause 1 of the Warranties was breached because the SPM was not operated, in conjunction with the Vessel, by and under the supervision of personnel on board the Vessel who were suitably trained for the functions that they had to carry out as an FSO connected to the SPM. It could not be assumed that the Master, Officers and crew of the Vessel were all properly certificated, trained and authorised to do the tasks with which they were entrusted in circumstances where the experts agreed that there had been gross negligence in seamanship: at [128] and [150]–[152].17 There was a breach of both cll 1 and 8 of the Warranties. Consequently, the defendant was not liable under the Policy for any loss resulting from the collisions. The claim for a CTL and for S & L expenses failed on that basis alone: at [156].18 Moreover, the defendant was likewise not liable under the Policy for any loss resulting from the collisions as a result of the plaintiff’s breach of the Claims Notification Clause. Since the plaintiff notified the defendant of a potential claim under the Policy on 5 September 2018, the question was whether the Assured was, as at or before 6 August 2018, aware of an incident giving rise to a claim which might be an actual total loss or a CTL. The plaintiff was aware, by 6 August 2018, of the collision incidents and of damage to the SPM and appreciated the risk of sinking as a result of the collisions, which would inevitably mean an actual total loss. The plaintiff must thereby have been aware of an incident that gave rise to a potential claim under the Policy: at [157], [160], and [168].19 Having determined that the defendant was not liable under the Policy in respect of the CTL based on the breaches of cll 1 and 8 of the Warranties or otherwise because of the plaintiff’s failure to satisfy the Claims Notification Clause, there was no need to determine whether or not the SPM was a CTL. Nonetheless, the plaintiff’s claim in CTL was not made out because it was not necessary to reinstate the SPM skirting to its condition prior to the collisions, which was the major issue in relation to the cost of repairs, in order to restore the SPM to a safe operational state. The major element of the cost of any replacement of the skirts lay in the requirement to disconnect the SPM and take it to a yard for repair before returning it or, if in situ, lifting it out of the water with a spread involving offshore vessels, barges and a large heavy lift crane. No prudent uninsured would decide to repair or replace the skirting by disconnecting the SPM and transporting it to a yard and back because of the prohibitive cost of doing so when the function of the skirting, as agreed by the experts, was only to protect the SPM from soft collisions. Even if it was desirable to renew the skirting, the obviously sensible thing to do was to defer any repair of the skirting to the next drydocking: at [67], [73], [170], [173]–[174] and [176].20 On the face of three quotations obtained by the plaintiff upon which it relied in support of its claim, it would have been obvious to the plaintiff that there was a case to be made for CTL of the SPM by, at the very latest, mid-December 2018. In those circumstances, even allowing for a period of time for the plaintiff to consider the position and discuss the matter and take legal advice, a further five months passed before the plaintiff tendered the NOA on 22 May 2019. The obtaining of a fourth quotation in April 2019 provided no good reason for delay. Even after obtaining such quotation, a further seven weeks passed before the NOA was sent. The NOA was thus not given with reasonable diligence after the receipt of reliable information of the loss, as required by s 62(3) of the MIA (UK), the effect of which being that the plaintiff was taken as having treated the loss as partial only. In any case, the plaintiff had preferred its own interests over those of the defendant by, among other actions, selling the SPM at an undervalue in June 2019, and was thereby taken to have elected not to treat the SPM as a CTL and/or waived its right to do so and/or was precluded from doing so by its conduct: at [196]–[197], [200], and [215]–[217].21 The issue of S & L charges did not arise because the plaintiff could not succeed on any claim under the Policy at all. If that were not the case, only expenses consisting of costs incurred in relation to, and/or incidental to, the inspection and repair of the Compartments to drain the water and prevent further flooding amounting to US$20,875, could qualify as S & L: at [229(b)] and [234].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
