
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE30 August 2022Case summaryCKH v CKG [2022] SGCA(I) 6Civil Appeal No 1 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Jonathan Hugh Mance):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against SICC Judge’s decision that various points raised by the appellant fell outside the scope of the remission to the arbitral tribunal.  Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where the court has suspended proceedings to set aside an arbitral award (under Article 34(4) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration) so as “to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity to resume the arbitral proceedings or to take such other action as in the arbitral tribunal’s opinion will eliminate the grounds for setting aside”, the tribunal’s jurisdiction is only revived to the extent of the remission ordered, and the order for remission defines the limits of the exercise which the parties and the tribunal can undertake when the matter returns before the tribunal: at [6] and [7].Background to the appeal and material facts1 The case arose from a strongly contested arbitration which had led to an arbitral award (“the Award”) made by the arbitral tribunal (“the Tribunal”). In previous proceedings to set aside the Award, which reached the Court of Appeal in CKH v CKG and another matter [2022] SGCA(I) 4 (“CKH v CKG”), the court upheld (with one presently irrelevant variation) the International Judge (“the Judge”)’s decision that the Award failed to take into account the existence and quantum of a debt (“the Principal Debt”) and interest owing by the appellant (“CKH”) to the respondent (“CKG”) in relation to freight and taxes for logs supplied. 2 The Judge had exercised the power under Article 34(4) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“the Model Law”) scheduled to the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“the IAA”) to suspend proceedings to set aside the Award “to give the arbitral tribunal an opportunity to resume the arbitral proceedings or to take such other action as in the arbitral tribunal’s opinion will eliminate the grounds for setting aside”. The Order of Court giving effect to the Judge’s judgment ordered that “[t]he Remitted Matters shall be remitted to the Tribunal on the Terms of Reference set out in Annex A” thereto.3 When the matter returned to the Tribunal, CKH claimed to raise a number of points relating to the Principal Debt and interest which CKG contended fell outside the scope of the remission ordered. The parties then sought the Judge’s decision on this dispute. The Judge held that the Tribunal’s role was strictly limited to the exercise defined by the order for remission contained in Annex A, and that the further points which CKH claimed to raise were not open to it before the Tribunal on such remission.4 CKH subsequently appealed against the Judge’s decision under Order 21 rule 20 of the Singapore International Commercial Court Rules 2021.Decision on appeal5 The Judge had clearly, comprehensively and correctly addressed the issues of (a) whether and how far a party could, on a remission under Article 34(4) of the Model Law, go outside the scope of the order for remission, and (b) whether the appellant was seeking, but should not be permitted, to do this: at [1]. 6 Although the power conferred by Article 34(4) of the Model Law was on its face relatively broad, the scope of remission was necessarily defined by the terms of the order ordering remission. Apart from the remission ordered, there was no basis on which a party in CKH’s position or the Tribunal itself could seek to re-open or expand the subject matter of the award or arbitration. The Tribunal’s original Award rendered it functus officio, save to the extent that the order for remission gave it revived power. The order for remission defined the limits of the exercise which the parties and the Tribunal could undertake when the matter returned before the Tribunal. This principle, which was in its essence that the Tribunal’s jurisdiction was only revived to the extent of the remission ordered, was well-supported in authority: at [6] and [7]. 7 CKH’s challenges to the recitals and order for remission made by the Judge – which had been upheld, so far as material, on appeal – were not open to it. The recitals and order were integral aspects of the remission ordered under Article 34(4) of the Model Law and were res judicata. All that was open on the application before the Judge and the present appeal were issues of interpretation of the meaning and scope of the remission ordered. In this case, the matters raised by CKH fell outside the scope of the limited remission ordered: at [8] to [11].8 In these circumstances, the court did not consider it necessary to hear oral arguments and dismissed the appeal with costs at the full amount of $30,000 claimed by CKG: at [1] and [12].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
