
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 August 2022Case summaryPerry, Tamar and another v Esculier, Bonnet Servane Michele Thais and another [2022] SGHC(I) 13 Suit No. 4 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Justice Simon Thorley):Outcome: After consideration of several relevant factors, the Defendants were awarded costs of S$800,000 and were allowed to recover S$293,065.60 for their disbursements.  Background 1 This was a judgment on costs arising from the substantive decision handed down in respect of Suit No 4 of 2020 on 15 July 2022, ie, Perry, Tamar and another v Esculier, Bonnet Servane Michele Thais and another [2022] SGHC(I) 10 (the “Substantive Judgment”). Seven issues were determined in the Substantive Judgment, including a counterclaim by the Defendants. Six of those issues concerned the Plaintiffs’ claim, and they were unsuccessful on all but one issue, which was not itself sufficient for their claim to succeed. The Defendants, by contrast, were successful in their counterclaim, which was the seventh issue. 2 The parties did not address the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) on costs prior to the Substantive Judgment. The SICC therefore directed that the normal order would be that the Plaintiffs’ pay the Defendants’ costs. If the Plaintiffs wished to contest this, they were to write in to the SICC with reasons. Thereafter, the parties were to file written submissions (see the Substantive Judgment at [204]). The Plaintiffs wrote in on 22 July 2022 accepting that the appropriate order was that they should pay the Defendants’ costs. However, they disputed that the Defendants were entitled to their full costs for various reasons. On 18 August 2022 the parties filed written submissions and agreed that the SICC should resolve the dispute without an oral hearing.The factors the SICC took into account in determining costs3 As a general starting point, the Plaintiffs submitted that the SICC ought to have regard to Appendix G of the Supreme Court Practice Directions (“Appendix G”). The Plaintiffs also submitted that the Defendants’ cost should be reduced to take into account:a. The disproportionality of the Defendants’ costs to the value of the claim;b. That the Defendants were unsuccessful in respect of one issue;c. That the Defendants refused to admit numerous uncontentious points; d. That there were wasted trial dates; and e. The overall reasonableness of the costs claimed.4 In respect of whether regard should be had to Appendix G, the Plaintiffs had – earlier in the proceedings – taken the position that reference to Appendix G should not be made. They accepted that their present position was a departure from their earlier position and sought to argue that, as the case turned out, it was no more complex than a “run of the mill” commercial case suitable for resolution in the General Division of the High Court. The SICC rejected this. The case involved a novel issue of whether the victim of a Ponzi scheme could seek redress from another victim. There were prior proceedings in Hong Kong and Switzerland, and the Plaintiffs had also earlier contended that this was an “offshore” case which enabled them to instruct Queen’s Counsel. In the round, the SICC took the view that this case clearly could not be classified as a “run of the mill” commercial case and, thus, it was not appropriate to have regard to Appendix G: at [9] to [14]. 5 In respect of proportionality, the SICC took the view that the Defendants’ costs of less than S$1 million without disbursements in respect of a S$10 million claim was not disproportionate. This was supported by the fact the Plaintiffs’ own costs schedule showed that they had themselves incurred some S$1.7 million in costs: at [15] to [17].6 In respect of the issue which the Plaintiffs succeeded in the Substantive Judgment, abbreviated the “JL Transfer issue” (see the Substantive Judgment at [186]–[191]), the SICC found that a 10% reduction in costs was appropriate: at [18].7 The Plaintiffs’ primary complaint was that the Defendants did not admit the existence of the Ponzi scheme. The SICC held that it was not unreasonable for the Defendants to have put the Plaintiffs to proof of this issue. No reduction was therefore appropriate. The other unadmitted points were of a minor character which were to be taken into account when considering overall “reasonableness”: at [19] and [20].8 Some trial dates were wasted as a result of COVID, but the SICC considered that this was just part of the vicissitudes of litigation for which the Defendants could not be blamed. Thus, no reduction was applied: at [21].9 Finally, as regards overall reasonableness, the SICC took the view that a reduction was appropriate based on the Defendants non-admission of certain minor points. For example, the fact that proceedings took place in Hong Kong and Switzerland, and the fact that the First Defendant was in receipt of funds transferred from one of the companies associated with the alleged Ponzi scheme: at [22]. The SICC’s decision10 The Defendants submitted that their disbursements were S$293,065.60 and they were entitled to recover this in full. Their claim for costs was S$940,000 which was to be reduced first by 10% to account for the issue in respect of which they failed. The reduced sum of S$846,000 was further adjusted downwards to S$800,000 to account for overall reasonableness. The total order was therefore for S$1,093,065.60: at [23].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
