
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE25 August 2022Case summaryXu Yuan Chen (alias Terry Xu) v Attorney-General [2022] SGCA 59Civil Appeal No. 68 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against decision that AG’s committal application against the appellant was not prima facie in breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Article 12(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint) (“the Constitution”) did not mean that all persons were to be treated equally, but simply that all persons in like situations would be treated alike. The first step of the two-step test for determining whether executive action breached Art 12(1) therefore required an applicant alleging a breach of Art 12(1) to show that he had been treated differently from other equally situated persons. It was thus essential for the applicant to be able to point to a relevant and appropriate comparator who was equally situated, and whose treatment could therefore be meaningfully compared with his or her own: at [1].•  In ascertaining whether persons were equally situated, the court had to have regard to the nature of the executive action in question. Where the executive action in question was the exercise of prosecutorial discretion, the multitude of factors which the Prosecution was entitled and obliged to take into account in making prosecutorial decisions in each case meant that it would generally be relatively challenging for an applicant to establish that he was “equally situated” to another person: at [24] and [27].Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellant was the Chief Editor of The Online Citizen (“TOC”), a news media platform. An open letter to the Chief Justice (“the Letter”) had been published by one Ms Julie Mary O’Connor (“Ms O’Connor”) on her blog (“BOTT”), and the appellant obtained Ms O’Connor’s permission to repost the Letter on TOC’s website and Facebook page (as “the Article” and “the Facebook Post” respectively).2 Following investigations, the Attorney-General’s Chambers (“the AGC”) was satisfied that the contents of the Letter, and by extension the Article and the Facebook Post, amounted to contempt of court under s 3(1)(a) of the Administration of Justice (Protection) Act 2016 (Act 19 of 2016) (“the AJPA”). The AGC wrote to the appellant inviting him to withdraw his remarks (including by deleting the Article and the Facebook Post) and to apologise to the Judiciary.  However, the AGC did not send a similar letter to Ms O’Connor. The appellant did not take the steps that the AGC invited him to take.3 The Attorney-General (“the AG”) then sought and obtained leave to apply for an order of committal against the appellant for contempt of court in connection with the Article and the Facebook Post. Subsequently, the AG applied for an order of committal against the appellant and for an order for the appellant to delete the Article and the Facebook Post from TOC’s website and TOC’s Facebook page respectively, and to cease further publication of the same (“the Committal Application”).4 In response, the appellant applied for leave to apply for prohibiting orders preventing the AG from proceeding with the Committal Application (“the Prohibiting Orders”), as well as declarations that the Committal Application was in breach of Arts 12(1), 12(2) and 35(8) of the Constitution (“the Declarations”). 5 The judge below (“the Judge”) dismissed the appellant’s application. The Judge found that the appellant had not shown a prima facie breach of Art 12(1) as the relevant comparator was Ms O’Connor, and the appellant was not prima facie equally situated with Ms O’Connor as there were at least three material differences between them. The Judge then found that the appellants’ other claims and prayers for relief had effectively fallen away. The appellant appealed against the Judge’s decision.Decision on appeal6 Although the appellant initially sought to challenge the AG’s decision to file the Committal Application against him on four related grounds, he was no longer pursuing his arguments on illegality and/or irrationality or on Art 12(2) on appeal. Further, although the appellant initially appeared to be contending that both Art 35(8) and Art 12(1) had been breached, his case on Art 35(8) was predicated on the alleged breach of Art 12(1), and no separate breach of Art 35(8) was alleged. Article 12(1) was therefore the cornerstone of the appellant’s case: at [13] to [15].7 The AG’s procedural objection in the proceedings below – that the appellant should first have obtained leave to apply for the Prohibiting Orders before including the prayers for the Declarations in his subsequent summons – was erroneous. Instead, the correct legal position was that the appellant could not be granted the Declarations under O 53 of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) unless he first succeeded in obtaining leave to apply for the Prohibiting Orders: at [20] and [21].8 The issue that arose for determination in respect of the Prohibiting Orders in this case was whether the appellant had raised a prima facie case of reasonable suspicion that the alleged breach of Art 12(1) was made out: at [22]. 9 A two-step test applied in determining whether executive action breached Art 12(1) of the Constitution. First, the AG’s actions had to have resulted in the appellant being treated differently from other equally situated persons. This would then shift the burden to the AG to provide justification for the differential treatment by showing that it was “reasonable”, in that it was based on legitimate reasons which made the differential treatment “proper”. Further, in ascertaining whether persons were “equally situated”, the court had to have regard to the nature of the executive action in question, and the test was a factual one of whether a prudent person would objectively think the persons concerned were roughly equivalent or similarly situated in all material respects: at [23].10 The fact that an individual faced prosecution, while another who might have committed similar actions did not, did not ipso facto indicate a breach of Art 12(1). Indeed, the multitude of factors which the Prosecution was entitled and obliged to take into account in making prosecutorial decisions in each case meant that it would generally be relatively challenging for an applicant to establish that he was “equally situated” to another person for the purposes of the exercise of prosecutorial discretion: at [27]. 11 The central premise of the appellant’s case on Art 12(1) was the comparison between his treatment and that of Ms O’Connor. However, it was clear that they were not equally situated in view of the differentiating factors between them: at [34] and [63].12 The key differentiating factor in the present case was the difficulty in investigation, prosecution and enforcement that would be faced by the authorities in respect of Ms O’Connor compared to the appellant, arising from the fact that she was an Australian citizen residing overseas (and had not evinced any intention to come to Singapore) whereas the appellant resided in Singapore and was within Singapore’s contempt jurisdiction at all material times. The AG’s overriding duty was to act in the public interest, and in assessing what would be in the public interest, the AG was entitled to take into account the degree of difficulty that was likely to be faced in investigating and prosecuting Ms O’Connor, and was also entitled to consider whether taking action against the appellant in respect of the Article and the Facebook Post would be sufficient in the public interest. There was no basis for the court to draw the inference that if the AG had written to Ms O’Connor to invite her to come to Singapore, she would have been willing to do so and subject herself to investigation and prosecution in Singapore: at [39], [43] and [51].13 Another differentiating factor was that the appellant’s publication of the Article and the Facebook Post on TOC’s platforms was likely to cause a greater degree of harm than Ms O’Connor’s publication of the Letter on BOTT. The assessment of the degree of harm entailed both a quantitative and a qualitative analysis. On a quantitative analysis, the appellant’s publication of the Article and the Facebook Post likely gave Ms O’Connor’s allegations much wider circulation than they would otherwise have enjoyed, given TOC’s substantial audience and reach compared to BOTT. On a qualitative analysis, TOC was an established alternative news platform in Singapore, whereas BOTT was Ms O’Connor’s personal blog and was far less established and less widely followed than TOC. By publishing the Article on TOC’s website and the Facebook Post on TOC’s Facebook page, the appellant conferred on the allegations made in Ms O’Connor’s Letter a greater appearance of journalistic and editorial legitimacy than they would have enjoyed if they had been published on BOTT alone. In assessing what the public interest required, the AG was entitled to undertake both a quantitative and a qualitative assessment and to conclude that the Committal Application against the appellant was in the public interest whereas the prosecution of Ms O’Connor might not have been. This differentiating factor further weighed against the appellant and Ms O’Connor being equally situated: at [52] to [56], [58] and [59]. 14 The appellant had therefore failed to discharge his burden of showing that the AG’s actions had resulted in him being treated differently from another equally situated person for the purposes of Art 12(1) of the Constitution. As he had not established any prima facie case of reasonable suspicion in relation to the alleged breach of Art 12(1), there was no basis for the court to grant him leave to apply for the Prohibiting Orders, and his prayers for the Declarations thus also fell away: at [63] to [65].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
