
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE4 August 2022Case summaryIskandar bin Rahmat and others v Attorney General and another [2022] SGCA 58 Civil Appeal No 31 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (comprising Sundaresh Menon CJ, Tay Yong Kwang JCA and Woo Bih Li JAD) (judgment delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: CoA dismisses constitutional challenge against certain costs provisions in the Criminal Procedure Code and declines to stay the execution of the second appellant.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The true scope of ss 356, 357 and 409 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (2020 Rev Ed) (“CPC”) (“the CPC Cost Provisions”) did not impinge on one’s right of access to justice or right to counsel at all, simply because there was and could be no right to advance a position in court improperly (at [40]). •  A civil suit filed by the second appellant two days before his scheduled execution, in which his criminal trial lawyer was named as the defendant, was an abuse of process for a number of reasons, including that it was baseless, an afterthought, an impermissible collateral attack on earlier decisions in the criminal proceedings and brought much too late in the day. For this reason, among others, the civil suit was struck out under O 3 r 2(2) of the Rules of Court 2021 to prevent an abuse of process (at [57] and [67]). The material facts1 There were two matters before the court. The first was a claim by 24 convicted prisoners seeking: (a) a declaration that the CPC Cost Provisions denied their constitutional right to access to justice and thereby violated Arts 9(1) and 12(1) of the  Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (2020 Rev Ed) (“the Constitution”) (“the Declaration Claim”); and (b) damages from the Attorney-General for the breach of his statutory duty to allow, facilitate and/or not to obstruct access to counsel and/or legal advice (“the Damages Claim”). The claimants alleged that this statutory duty arose from Art 9 of the Constitution, the Legal Profession Act 1966 (2020 Rev Ed), Prisons Act 1993 (2020 Rev Ed) and/or the Prisons Regulations (2002 Rev Ed). Both claims had been struck out by a High Court Judge (“the Judge”) for disclosing no reasonable cause of action, and the prisoners appealed against this decision (and shall henceforth be referred to as the “appellants”).2 At the hearing of the appeal, the appellants alleged that the Singapore Prisons Service (“SPS”) had deliberately refused to accept service of their filing of the Declaration and Damages Claims on 28 July 2022 because SPS wanted first to issue the Notice of Execution against the second appellant (“Abdul Rahim”) on the next day. The AG hotly contested this. The appellants argued that because of the SPS’ initial rejection, they only filed the claims on 1 August 2022, which required the claims to be dealt with on an expedited basis because of the pendency of Abdul Rahim’s Warrant of Execution a few days later. They argued that the expedited nature of the hearing deprived them of the opportunity to gather evidence to show that practising lawyers had in fact been deterred by the prospect of having to incur liability for costs from taking on the task of advising or representing applicants such as themselves.3 The second matter was an oral application made by the second appellant (“Abdul Rahim”) seeking a stay of his execution, which was scheduled on 5 August 2022. He sought a stay pending the disposal of a civil claim he had filed on 3 August 2022 (“the Civil Claim”). Before elaborating on the Civil Claim, the procedural history of Abdul Rahim’s conviction for drug trafficking should be recounted. 4 At a joint trial with a co-accused person (“Joint Trial”), Abdul Rahim was convicted and sentenced to death on 15 March 2018 for trafficking in drugs. Nadwani Manoj Prakash (“Manoj”), Jeeva Arul Joethy and Luo Ling Ling represented him at the Joint Trial. On 5 March 2020, Abdul Rahim’s appeal against conviction and sentence were dismissed. At the appeal, Abdul Rahim was represented by a different counsel, Dhillon Surinder Singh (“Mr Singh”) who was assisted by one of the assisting counsel, Luo Ling Ling, who had also been part of the team representing him at trial. Abdul Rahim received his Notice of Execution on 29 July 2022. His execution was scheduled on 5 August 2022. 5 On 3 August 2022, Abdul Rahim filed the Civil Claim against his assigned counsel for the Joint Trial, Manoj. Among other allegations, Abdul Rahim accused Manoj of failing to call one Nuraiin Binte Rosman (“Nuraiin”) as a witness to give evidence. In his oral submissions, Abdul Rahim explained that he wanted to adduce evidence from Nuraiin to show that the drugs he had were in fact for a person he referred to as “Jebek”. He claimed that Manoj declined to call Nuraiin as a witness.6 The AG informed the court that Nuraiin’s statements were available to Abdul Rahim for the purposes of the Joint Trial, but that he had chosen not to call her as a witness. He also stated that while Abdul Rahim gave evidence at trial, he never suggested that Nuraiin would be able to assist with his defences nor was she mentioned in his submissions on appeal. The court’s decision 7 The court dismissed the appeal against the Judge’s decision to strike out the Declaration and Damages Claims, and dismissed the second appellant’s application for a stay of execution (at [52] and [67]).8 As a preliminary point, the court declined the appellants’ request for a McKenzie friend. A McKenzie friend may not act as an advocate for a litigant, and is best seen as a support to aid the litigant in the way of helping with documents or with taking notes or with guiding a litigant through the process (at [5]). The appellants did not need the assistance of a McKenzie friend. The appellants had advanced their arguments before the Judge and directions had been given for those to stand as submissions for the purposes of the appeal. It was evident from those submissions that they either had already been assisted in developing their legal points or they did not require such assistance. Further this was not a case where there were voluminous documents such that they needed help to be assisted with these (at [6]).Declaration Claim9 To determine whether there was a viable claim to begin with, it was the confluence of a legal cause of action and the supporting substratum of fact that a court was concerned with in cases like the present. Although the appellants presented a robust case to the effect that there were factual points to be investigated, this would only be so if there was a viable legal cause of action that the factual averments could conceivably support. And this was where the appellants failed (at [33]).10 The fatal flaw in the appellants’ case was that when the case law of the Court of Appeal dealing with the CPC Cost Provisions was understood, as it should be by any reasonable person, and even more so by lawyers, these provisions could not reasonably deter lawyers from acting in bona fide applications/appeals for death row inmates. A high threshold had to be met before adverse costs consequences could be imposed. The CPC Cost Provisions could only be invoked to inflict cost consequences if the proceedings were brought or conducted with some impropriety (such as where they were frivolous, vexatious or an abuse of process). The true scope of the CPC Cost Provisions did not impinge on one’s right of access to justice or right to counsel at all because such a right did not and could not extend to a right to have frivolous, vexatious or abusive positions advanced in court (at [34] and [40]).11 The CPC Cost Provisions also did not unfairly target counsel in post-appeal applications for criminal matters. First, it was not correct that all the provisions only applied to post-appeal applications. Sections 357 and 409 of the CPC, for instance, were not so limited. Further, there was a difference between an appeal and a post-appeal application. An appeal was a process available to an accused person as a right. A post-appeal review was a process that took place after the merits had been reviewed not only at trial but on appeal and it was a discretionary process that was made available to avert possible miscarriages of justice in rare cases where there had been some development in terms of the law or the evidence. It was therefore entirely rational to provide for costs sanctions to be imposed more readily against improper applications being made at the post-appeal stage (at [43]–[45]).12 The Declaration Claim thus had no chance of success on the face of the pleadings (at [46]).Damages Claim13 The Damages Claim disclosed no reasonable cause of action. The appellants had not pleaded precisely what statutory duty had been breached (at [48] and [52]).14 The Judge also rightly noted that the appellants had not pleaded how the alleged statutory duty was breached by the AG. The Judge inferred that the alleged breach was constituted by the AG’s applications for cost orders against defence counsel in past cases. But any right of access to justice could not possibly include the right to bring improper applications/appeals and that was when such an application may be made successfully (at [51]).Application for stay of execution15 The Civil Claim, which was the basis of the application for stay of execution, was an abuse of process and was plainly an afterthought (at [57]). 16 The suggestion that Manoj was told that Abdul Rahim wished to call Nuraiin and refused to do so was wholly untenable when one considered that Abdul Rahim did not mention this at all in his evidence at trial; he did not even raise this with his counsel in the appeal whose work he said, even at the hearing of this matter, that he was happy with, and who he felt had conducted his appeal properly; and he failed to take any step to act on this until literally days before the sentence was to be carried out (at [57]).17 Further, the Civil Claim was a collateral attack on the decision of the High Court in his trial and of the Court of Appeal in his appeal. This was because his claim against Manoj must have rested on the notion that his alleged misconduct caused Abdul Rahim damage in that but for Manoj’s failure, he would not have been subject to the punishment he now faced because he would have been found to be just a courier (at [59]). But he was found not to be just a courier by both the trial judge and the Court of Appeal and to make out his claim against Manoj, Abdul Rahim would have to mount a collateral attack against those prior decisions in the criminal proceedings. Abdul Rahim had the opportunity to challenge the trial judge’s findings on appeal. Nuraiin’s evidence, which he claimed was new, was available then. Even if assuming in his favour that he raised this with his trial counsel, he accepted that he had not mentioned it to his counsel at the appeal (at [60]).18 Moreover, the Civil Claim was not a relevant proceeding to warrant the stay of execution. The claim suffered from a patent lack of merit and had no bearing on the merits of Abdul Rahim’s conviction (at [61]).19 In addition, where evidence was available at the time of the trial and not adduced it will not readily be admitted on appeal without some consideration of why it was not produced earlier and without due regard to its materiality and reliability. This was even more so the case after the appeal (at [62] and [63]).20 That the Civil Claim was filed at the eleventh hour and almost five days after the Notice of Execution was issued was also a factor the court took into account (at [67]). The court struck out the Civil Claim under O 3 r 2(2) of the Rules of Court 2021 on the basis that it was appropriate and necessary to do so to prevent frustration of the administration of justice (at [68]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
