
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE3 August 2022Case summaryC3J/OS 1/2022 Law Society of Singapore v Ooi Oon Tat [2022] SGHC 185--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: C3J orders a five-year suspension for solicitor who repeatedly failed to disclose documents he possessed in discovery in breach of court orders which led to his client’s claim being struck out.Background and facts1 This was the Law Society of Singapore’s application for the respondent, Mr Ooi Oon Tat, to be sanctioned under s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”).2 The respondent was a solicitor of some 27 years’ standing and practised as the sole proprietor of M/s Judy Cheng & Co (“J&C”) at the material time. Prior to engaging the respondent, the complainant, Mr Lim See Meng, commenced DC/DC 2679/2015 (“DC 2679”), a claim in relation to an accident that took place on 12 November 2012, and obtained interlocutory judgment with liability fixed at 100% against the defendant in DC 2679. The complainant subsequently engaged the respondent to see to the assessment of damages stage of DC 2679. 3 On 15 June 2016, the solicitors for the defendant in DC 2679, United Legal Alliance LLC (“ULA”), sought discovery of several documents pertaining to the complainant’s other road accidents. Despite the complainant having promptly provided various categories of the requested documents to the respondent, the respondent did not respond to the discovery request. 4 ULA subsequently applied to the District Court and obtained an order for discovery on 4 October 2016 and an unless order on 13 December 2016. However, despite attending the hearings of the applications, the respondent failed to comply with the orders. This resulted in DC 2679 being struck out on 20 January 2017. By then the action was time-barred and it was not a realistic option to issue fresh proceedings. The respondent also failed to inform the complainant of the applications and orders that were made against the complainant.5 The applicant brought three charges against the respondent in respect of the respondent’s misconduct before a disciplinary tribunal. These charges were for having failed to (i) keep the complainant reasonably informed of the progress of DC 2679, (ii) act with reasonable diligence, (iii) provide timely advice in relation to DC 2679, and (iv) follow the instructions given by the complainant. The disciplinary tribunal found that all the charges were made out and there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action. Decision6 As regards due cause under s 83(2)(b)(i) of the LPA, the central inquiry is whether the conduct of the lawyer is dishonourable to the lawyer as a person or dishonourable to the legal profession (at [29]).7 The respondent’s conduct, while not fraudulent, fundamentally breached a lawyer’s duty to his client. The complainant proactively furnished the requested documents to the respondent and also explicitly instructed the respondent to comply with the discovery request and extend him a copy of the reply to ULA. The respondent failed to produce the documents despite having every opportunity to do so. He also neglected to keep the complainant informed of these developments which obviously had an adverse effect on the complainant’s case. His utter disregard for the interests of his client was wholly unsatisfactory and unacceptable (at [30] to [31]). 8 The respondent conceded that due cause had been shown for him to be sanctioned. Thus, the main issue before the Court was the appropriate sanction to be imposed (at [32]).9 A fine was manifestly inadequate in reflecting the egregiousness of the respondent’s misconduct. The respondent’s suggestion that a fine was appropriate reflected an utter failure on his part to acknowledge the gravity of his misconduct and the degree of harm he had caused his own client. He either had no appreciation of the reality of his situation or was disingenuous in making this suggestion (at [35] to [36]).10 It was not outside the realm of possibility for an order of striking off to have been made in this case. It is well-established that where a solicitor conducts himself in a way that falls below the required standards of integrity, probity and trustworthiness and brings grave dishonour to the profession, he will be liable to be struck off. While the respondent’s misconduct did not attest to a character defect rendering him unfit to be a member of the legal profession, his abject failure in his duty to his client brought dishonour to the standing of the legal profession. However, considering that his failure did not rise to the level of establishing a pattern of such disregard, the Court decided against striking the respondent off the roll of advocates and solicitors (at [36], [38] to [39]).11 An order of suspension for five years was appropriate (at [40]) for the following reasons:a. First, the respondent’s dereliction of his duties was inexcusable and wholly unmitigated. He neglected to inform the complainant regarding the court orders made against the complainant, and completely failed to advise the complainant on the appropriate course of action to take. The respondent repeatedly and inexplicably “overlooked” disclosing the required documents notwithstanding that he had most if not all of the documents sought and court orders had been made ordering the production of those documents. When the respondent was probed on the reason for this, he could offer nothing by way of a meaningful response. There were also no mitigating factors to speak of (at [41] to [43]).b. Second, the respondent’s misconduct resulted in very real prejudice to the complainant. DC 2679 was struck out and the complainant effectively lost his right of action because of the time bar that applied by then. The respondent’s inaction transformed what appeared to be a complete victory in favour of the complainant in DC 2679 into a complete defeat. The complainant was then left to pursue a claim in negligence against the respondent and obtained a judgment against him which remained unsatisfied (at [44]).c. Third, the respondent displayed a troubling lack of remorse throughout the proceedings against him. A respondent-solicitor who vigorously contested the allegations against him in the face of clearly established objective facts (and therefore wasted the court’s time without any conceivable purpose) was less likely to be treated leniently than one who appropriately admitted his guilt. During the disciplinary proceedings, the respondent chose not to plead guilty. The defence he attempted to mount at the hearing was not only ill-conceived in principle but was not supported by a modicum of objective evidence. The disciplinary tribunal appeared to have found that the respondent had lied about certain aspects of his defence or at the very least that he had been less than forthright. The way the respondent went about conducting his defence was aggravating and the respondent also displayed an utter disregard for the disciplinary process (at [45] to [49]).d. Finally, the respondent had a relevant antecedent for failing to deposit client monies into the appropriate account for which he had been sanctioned with a one-year suspension. This too showed the respondent’s lack of sensitivity to the interests of his clients. The respondent was also a senior practitioner of some 27 years’ standing at the material time and this meant that greater damage was done to the standing of the legal profession by virtue of his misconduct (at [50]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
