
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 July 2022Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Mohammed Lutfi bin Hussin [2022] SGHC 182Court of Three Judges – Originating Summons No 6 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: C3J orders that solicitor who falsely attested to his client signing a mortgage instrument is to be suspended for three years.Background to the application and material facts1 In 2014, a prospective buyer of a property, Mr Mohammad Naseeruddin bin Allamdin (“Naseeruddin”), engaged Mr Mohammed Lutfi bin Hussin (the “Respondent”), the sole director of Lutfi Law Corporation (the “Law Firm”), to act for him in a conveyancing transaction. The transaction involved a transfer instrument and a mortgage instrument. However, the Respondent never met Naseeruddin throughout the entire transaction. His non-legally trained staff was the only one who met Naseerudin.2 The Respondent falsely represented on the mortgage instrument and the accompanying certificate of correctness that he had witnessed Naseeruddin signing on the mortgage instrument, when the Respondent did not in fact witness it.3 The Respondent also represented, by signing the certificate of correctness to the transfer instrument, that Naseeruddin had accepted proprietorship and was of full age and legal capacity. However, he never met with Naseeruddin personally, did not personally check with Naseeruddin whether he was of full age or lacked legal capacity, and did not ask Naseeruddin whether he accepted proprietorship of the property.4 The Law Society of Singapore brought two charges against the Respondent. The first was in respect of the Respondent’s false attestation on the mortgage instrument and the accompanying certificate of correctness. The second was in respect of the Respondent’s recklessness and negligence in certifying that Naseeruddin had accepted proprietorship and was of full age and legal capacity.5 The disciplinary tribunal convicted the Respondent on both charges and, upon finding that there was a prima facie case of due cause, referred this matter to the Court of Three Judges (“C3J”). The Law Society of Singapore then applied for the Respondent to be sanctioned under s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed). It argued that the appropriate sanction was for the Respondent to be struck off the roll, or be suspended for not less than 21 months in the alternative.The court’s ground of decision6 The C3J held that a composite sanction should be imposed in respect of both charges. The analysis of what this composite sanction should be centred on the first charge because it involved dishonest conduct which the C3J had consistently taken a firm stance on: at [27].7 The C3J held that the Respondent was irresponsible and neglectful in the conduct of his conveyancing practice. The Respondent had put in place a “system” pursuant to which he entrusted his non-legally trained staff to carry out conveyancing transactions, including witnessing the execution of conveyancing documents, so that he did not have to meet his own clients, unless he deemed it necessary. Under this “system”, the Respondent presupposed that everything was in order until and unless his staff flagged any issues. In relation to Naseeruddin’s conveyancing transaction, nothing out of the ordinary was brought to his attention. He therefore assumed that all was in order and never met Naseeruddin. This resulted in his act of false attestation: at [32] to [34].8 The Respondent’s lack of conscientiousness stemmed from his failure to discern the impropriety of his action in what appeared to be a straightforward case of dishonesty: at [35] to [41].9 That said, the presumptive sanction of striking off did not apply. The Respondent’s failure to appreciate the dishonesty entailed in false attestations was not a shortcoming which indicated that he lacked an understanding of basic standards of honesty and integrity altogether. It also could not be inferred that there were previous instances of false attestations. Likewise, it could not be inferred that the Respondent never met his clients for all other transactions. Thus, the extent of the Respondent’s flaws was insufficient to support a finding that the Respondent suffered from fundamental character defects which rendered him unfit to remain in the profession: at [42] to [43].10 The C3J then proceeded to consider the circumstances holistically to determine the appropriate sanction to be imposed. The C3J’s key considerations were as follows:a. The Respondent’s defects in attitude and character pointed towards a much stricter sanction, even though they did not rise to the level warranting a presumptive striking off order: at [45].b. The Respondent’s “system” gave rise to the possibility of an inaccurate or invalid instrument making its way to the public land register, thereby compromising the mirror principle undergirding the conveyancing system. This potential for harm ought to have been recognised by the Respondent, who had about nine years of experience as a conveyancing solicitor at the material time: at [48] to [51].c. The Respondent betrayed the public’s expectation that solicitors would treat their statutory duties under the Land Titles Act (Cap 157, 2004 Rev Ed) seriously and act honestly in relation to the certificate of correctness. His act of false attestation demonstrated his woeful lack of responsibility and professionalism: at [52].d. The Respondent’s moral compass was not beyond the pale as he had since expressed some remorse and appreciated the impropriety of his actions: at [53].e. Prior cases which bore some similarity to the instant facts resulted in a term of suspension. That said, there were distinguishing factors which indicated that a considerably longer term of suspension was merited in this case: at [57] to [65].11 Having considered all the circumstances, the C3J suspended the Respondent for three years: at [67].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
