
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE25 July 2022Case summarySingapore Democratic Party v Attorney-General [2022] SGCA 56Court of Appeal — Originating Application No 3 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (comprising Tay Yong Kwang JCA and Steven Chong JCA) (judgment delivered by Tay Yong Kwang JCA):Outcome: CoA dismisses Singapore Democratic Party’s application for permission to appeal against High Court judge’s decision declining to set aside POFMA Correction Direction.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In considering applications for permission to appeal against a decision of a Judge of the General Division of the High Court in appeals under ss 17, 29, 35 or 44 of the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act 2019 (Act 18 of 2019) (“the POFMA”), the applicable principles and legal test were the same as those for non-POFMA decisions. Thus, permission to appeal would only be granted if one or more of the well-established grounds set out in Lee Kuan Yew v Tang Liang Hong and another [1997] 2 SLR(R) 862 (“Lee Kuan Yew”) was established: (a) a prima facie case of error; (b) a question of general principle decided for the first time; or (c) a question of importance upon which further argument and a decision of a higher tribunal would be to the public advantage.•  There was no legal rule that in cases where permission to appeal was required under the Fifth Schedule to the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (2020 Rev Ed) (“the SCJA”), permission ought to be granted where the decision below disposed of the parties’ substantive rights. Where the relevant restriction on the right to appeal was a subject-matter restriction, it was irrelevant that the decision in question affected a party’s substantive rights.•  The default position in O 28 r 2 of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (“the ROC 2014”) (now O 15 r 1(1) of the Rules of Court 2021 (“the ROC 2021”)), that all originating summonses would be heard in chambers, applied even in respect of POFMA cases.Background to the application and material facts1 In April 2018, the then-Chief Executive Officer of the Housing & Development Board (“Dr Cheong”) had delivered a lecture which stated that Singapore’s living density would increase to 13,700 persons per sq km between then and 2030.  2 In July 2020, as part of its campaign in the 2020 Singapore Parliamentary General Elections, the Singapore Democratic Party (“the SDP”) published a press release on its Facebook page which stated that Dr Cheong had said that Singapore’s population density would increase to 13,700 people per sq km between then and 2030, and that given Singapore’s land area, this meant that its population would go up to nearly 10 million by 2030. 3 Subsequently, the Alternate Authority for the Minister for National Development issued a Correction Direction (“CD”) to the SDP under s 11 of the POFMA. After the SDP applied unsuccessfully to the Minister to cancel the CD, it appealed to the High Court under s 17 of the POFMA to set aside the CD (“the OS”). The High Court judge (“the Judge”) first dismissed the SDP’s preliminary oral application for the OS to be heard in open court and directed that it be heard in chambers. After hearing the OS on its merits, the Judge dismissed the OS and declined to set aside the CD. The SDP then filed the present originating application for permission to appeal to the Court of Appeal against the Judge’s decision. The Attorney-General (“the AG”) opposed the application, submitting that permission to appeal should not be granted.4 The SDP argued that permission to appeal should normally be granted in POFMA cases and that the principles set out in Lee Kuan Yew v Tang Liang Hong and another [1997] 2 SLR(R) 862 should not be applied in this context. The SDP also contended that the requirement for permission to appeal in POFMA cases (as set out in para 3(m) of the Fifth Schedule to the SCJA) was anomalous and inconsistent with the wording of s 17(8) of the POFMA. Further, the SDP submitted that even if the Lee Kuan Yew principles were applied, permission to appeal should be granted because the OS involved questions of general principle decided for the first time (“questions of general principle”) and questions of importance upon which further argument and a decision of a higher tribunal would be to the public advantage (“questions of importance”). These questions, as framed by the SDP, were as follows:a. What are the principles (if any) that apply to applications for permission to appeal against POFMA decisions? (“the Permission Principles Question”)b.  When should a POFMA appeal be heard in open court? (“the Open Court Question”)c. How should the third and fourth steps of the TOC Framework be applied to a situation where the subject statement is a report of a statement made by someone else? (“the Report of Statement Question”)d. What is a statement of opinion for the purposes of the POFMA? (“the Opinion Question”)The court’s decision Principles governing permission to appeal in POFMA cases5 First, the court rejected the SDP’s argument that POFMA decisions were appealable as of right at the time the POFMA was enacted. Section 17(8) of the POFMA and r 16 of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation) Rules 2019 (No S 665), which first came into operation together with the POFMA itself, provided a clear indication that appeals against POFMA decisions were always intended to be subject to the same restrictions as appeals against decisions made by the High Court in the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction. This weighed against the SDP’s suggestion that a different approach to permission to appeal was intended to be (or should be) applied to POFMA cases: at [27] and [28].6 Next, the court rejected the SDP’s assertion that the requirement of permission to appeal from POFMA decisions in para 3(m) of the Fifth Schedule was introduced without explanation by the Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Bill (Bill No 32/2019) (“the 2019 SCJ Amendment Bill”), by way of an amendment to the Fifth Schedule which purported to be merely procedural in nature. The provision that was now para 3(m) was first introduced as para 1(j) of the Fifth Schedule to the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (as was in force from 2 October 2019 to 11 September 2020). It was not inserted by the 2019 SCJ Amendment Bill but by the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Amendment of Fifth Schedule) Order 2019 (S 666/2019) with effect from 2 October 2019 – the date of commencement of the POFMA itself. The requirement of permission to appeal against POFMA decisions had thus existed since the inception of the POFMA: at [30].7 Third, the court rejected the SDP’s argument that POFMA decisions should be appealable as of right because such decisions disposed of the parties’ substantive rights. There was no legal rule that in cases where permission to appeal was required under the Fifth Schedule to the SCJA, permission ought to be granted where the decision below disposed of the parties’ substantive rights. A distinction ought to be drawn between restrictions relating to substantive matters as opposed to those concerning interlocutory matters on the one hand, and restrictions relating to the subject matter of the intended appeal on the other hand. Where the relevant restriction on the right to appeal was a subject-matter restriction, it was irrelevant that the decision in question affected a party’s substantive rights. As para 3(m) of the Fifth Schedule to the SCJA plainly imposed a subject-matter restriction on the right to appeal, it was irrelevant that decisions falling within the scope of this paragraph might dispose of the parties’ substantive rights. According to the plain words of para 3(m), POFMA decisions listed in that paragraph were appealable only with permission: at [34], [35] and [37].8 The court therefore rejected the SDP’s position that different principles or a different legal test should apply when considering applications for permission to appeal against POFMA decisions, and that permission to appeal should normally be granted as a matter of course. Permission to appeal would only be granted if the SDP established one or more of the well-established grounds set out in Lee Kuan Yew: at [38] and [39].Whether permission to appeal should be granted9 Applying those principles, the SDP’s application for permission to appeal was dismissed as none of the questions framed by the SDP could be regarded as questions of general principle or importance which would arise for decision in an appeal against the Judge’s decision in the OS: at [62]. 10 The Permission Principles Question was not a question that arose from the Judge’s decision, nor was it one which would arise in the substantive appeal against the Judge’s decision. Instead, it arose in this application for permission to appeal and had already been addressed by the court: at [42]. 11 As for the Open Court Question, the SDP was out of time to apply for permission to appeal against the Judge’s decision to hear the OS in chambers. Accordingly, the Open Court Question would not arise for this court’s determination in any appeal against the Judge’s decision: at [44].12 In any event, the Open Court Question was not a question of general principle or importance. Its resolution involved the application of established principles to the specific facts of the present case. The default position stated in O 28 r 2 of the ROC 2014 (now O 15 r 1(1) of the ROC 2021) was that all originating summonses would be heard in chambers, and this applied even in respect of POFMA cases. The legal principles regarding when a departure from this default statutory position would be justified were well established: the applicant seeking an open court hearing had to show “special reasons”. This was a fact-sensitive inquiry to which no general answer could be given: at [45] to [50].13 The Report of Statement Question was not a question of general principle or importance that would arise in an appeal against the Judge’s decision. The issues of whether a subject statement which was a report of a statement made by someone else was a “statement of fact” and whether that statement of fact was “false” could be answered by an application of the principles set out at the third and fourth steps of the analytical framework in The Online Citizen Pte Ltd v Attorney-General and another appeal and other matters [2021] 2 SLR 1358. No further explanation was needed: at [56].14 The Opinion Question was not a question of general principle or importance that would arise for determination in an appeal against the Judge’s decision because its resolution turned ultimately on the specific facts of each case. The court had to take an objective approach in ascertaining whether the identified subject statement fell within the definition of a “statement of fact” in s 2(2)(a) of the POFMA. The question of how a particular statement should be construed was a question of fact and there could be no set formula because it depended on the specific facts and context: at [58] and [61].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
