
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 July 2022Case summarySaw Beng Chong v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGHC 175General Division of the High Court – Magistrate’s Appeal No 9007 of 2022/02--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):  Outcome: HC dismissed the appeal. Pertinent and significant point of the judgment:•  The sentencing framework for an offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt in Public Prosecutor v BDB [2018] 1 SLR 127 required a broad-based, fact-specific inquiry in identifying the starting point, as it would depend on the nature and severity of the harm caused. It was therefore impossible to finely compare and calibrate each case, and place each instance of hurt neatly on the spectrum of the permitted sentencing range: at [26].•   It would be erroneous to rely on the sentencing benchmarks in Low Song Chye v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2019] 5 SLR 526 for an offence of voluntarily causing hurt for an offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt. The permitted sentencing range for and the type of injuries typically covered by the two offences was different, and as such the relevant starting point situated within the respective range would differ as well, even if the harm caused were identical: at [29] and [30]. Background to the appeal1 The Appellant, Saw Beng Chong, pleaded guilty to and was convicted of one charge under s 325 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “Penal Code”), for voluntarily causing grievous hurt to the victim (“the Victim”). 2 On 20 February 2020 at around 5.00am, the Appellant hailed a taxi driven by the Victim. Shortly after the Victim started driving, the Appellant told the Victim that he had forgotten to take something from home and asked the Victim to stop at the bus stop by 427 Hougang Avenue 6 Singapore. As soon as the Victim stopped the taxi to comply with his request, the Appellant grabbed the Victim from the rear passenger seat and choked him. The Victim struggled to break free but was unable to do so. The Victim sounded his car horn in the hope of scaring the Appellant off or getting the attention of any passers-by. The Appellant released the chokehold on the Victim and then grabbed his hands to stop him from sounding the horn. The Victim managed to bite the Appellant’s hand and the Appellant let go. 3 The Appellant then got out of the taxi, opened the door where the Victim was seated and then punched him on his face around four times, pushed him towards the front passenger seat, and again choked him on the neck. The Appellant then released his grip, and fled from the scene. The Appellant left for Malaysia shortly after and returned to Singapore some 18 months later. He was arrested on 22 October 2021 upon his return.  4 The Victim sustained multiple fractures, including a mildly displaced nasal bone fracture, an undisplaced rib fracture, and a minimally displaced orbital wall fracture. He was given six days of hospitalisation leave. The learned District Judge in the State Courts (the “District Judge”) applied the sentencing framework in Public Prosecutor v BDB [2018] 1 SLR 127 (“BDB”), and sentenced the Appellant to a term of imprisonment of 13 months, and additionally, ordered compensation of $885.71 in favour of the Victim under s 359 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (2020 Rev Ed). Caning was sought by the Prosecution, but the District Judge did not impose any caning. 5 The Appellant appealed against the sentence of imprisonment imposed by the District Judge contending that it was manifestly excessive. The Appellant relied on the sentencing benchmarks for an offence of voluntarily causing hurt under s 323 of the Penal Code in Low Song Chye v Public Prosecutor and another appeal [2019] 5 SLR 526 (“Low Song Chye”), and argued that the starting point should have been no more than nine months’ imprisonment as this was a case of moderate harm, for which the Low Song Chye benchmarks prescribed a range of six weeks to nine months’ imprisonment.The decision of the Court 6 The applicable two-stage sentencing framework was as set out in BDB. In identifying the indicative starting point as a part of the first stage of the BDB analysis, the court should have primary regard to the seriousness of the injury caused to the victim, as the gravity of the injury would differentiate an offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt from the offence of voluntarily causing hurt under s 323 of the Penal Code. This would necessarily be a broad-based, fact-specific inquiry due to the wide range of possible permutations of grievous hurt, which made it impossible to finely compare and calibrate each case. The court’s assessment of the indicative starting point should be informed by the full breadth of the permitted sentencing range, which is the maximum imprisonment term of ten years: at [26], [28].   7 The court held that it would be erroneous to transpose the sentencing benchmarks in Low Song Chye, which was for a different offence of voluntarily causing hurt, to the present offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt. The full breadth of sentencing range differed for the two offences. The maximum sentence for an offence of voluntarily causing hurt was three years, whereas the maximum for voluntarily causing grievous hurt was ten years. Therefore, it followed that the sentencing bands in Low Song Chye cannot be logically and accurately transposed here since the relevant starting point for each offence would have to be situated within its own permitted range. The sentencing regimes for a voluntarily causing hurt offence and that for a voluntarily causing grievous hurt offence were therefore fundamentally different. The same harm, when prosecuted under difficult provisions, would be differently situated on the spectrum of possible sentences: at [29], [30]. 8 The District Judge was not wrong in identifying the starting point to be around 12 or 13 months’ imprisonment, as there were multiple fractures on the face and in the ribs. The injuries here were less serious than those in BDB where there were multiple rib fractures and fractures to the elbow and calf. Where the injuries involved multiple fractures that were no more serious than those in BDB, and caused a victim to suffer some degree of disruption and persistent pain, a starting point of 9 to 14 months’ imprisonment would be appropriate: at [32], [40]. 9 As for the second stage of the BDB analysis, there were multiple factors that warranted an uplift from the starting point of 12 or 13 months’ imprisonment. The attack was sustained and relentless. The attack was also unprovoked and gratuitous if it was not premeditated. All that the Appellant said, without any particularisation, were that he did not like the Victim’s tone, and that he had personal issues to deal with. But this was not a reasonable explanation for what he did to the Victim: at [42], [43].10 Further, this was an attack against a public transport worker in the very early hours of the morning, which the District Judge had rightly observed to be a high-risk time for taxi drivers. There was a need to impose a deterrent sentence to send a clear signal that assaults on public transport workers would not be tolerated: at [44].11 The Appellant had fled the scene and left for Malaysia soon after the attack; there was nothing to suggest that he intended to surrender. There was also nothing to substantiate the Appellant’s claim that he went back to Malaysia to attend to personal matters. Given the timing and duration of his sudden departure from Singapore, it was plain, in any case, that there was a lack of remorse: at [45].12 The Appellant’s plea of guilty was of some, but not significant mitigating value, as the case against him was strong and he had little option but to accept liability. In such circumstances, a plea of guilt had limited weight: at [46].13 Taking all these aggravating factors and one mitigating factor into account, the court found that the sentence of 13 months’ imprisonment imposed by the District Judge was lenient and clearly not manifestly excessive: at [47].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
