
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 November 2023Case summaryW. Power Group EOOD v Ming Yang Wind Power (International) Co. Ltd [2023] SGHC(I) 20SIC/OA 2/2023 (SIC/SUM 13/2023)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Thomas Bathurst IJ):Outcome: SICC orders that unless W. Power Group EOOD (“WPG”) provides security of S$70,000 for Ming Yang Wind Power (International) Co. Ltd’s (“Ming Yang”) costs up to the commencement of trial in accordance with Order 1 of the judgment delivered on 29 September 2023 in SIC/OA 2/2023 (SIC/SUM 13/2023) (“SUM 13”), the proceedings are dismissed. SICC also orders that WPG pays Ming Yang’s costs of the application in SUM 13 assessed in the amount of $6,000 inclusive of disbursements. Background 1. The claimant, WPG, was a Bulgarian company and described itself as an international developer engaged in investing and developing wind farms in Bulgaria, Romania and other countries. The defendant, Ming Yang, was a Chinese wind turbine manufacturer engaged in the design, manufacture, construction, sales and services of wind turbines in the global market. WPG and Ming Yang had entered into a joint venture agreement to establish a joint venture company for the purpose of developing two wind farm projects. In SIC/OA 2/2023 (“OA 2”) WPG claims Ming Yang breached its obligations under the joint venture agreement essentially by failing to secure financing for one of the two projects (the “second project”) and by withdrawing a performance guarantee for the same project. Ming Yang’s defence broadly speaking stated that certain changes to the legal and regulatory regime introduced by the Bulgarian government had negatively affected renewable energy projects such as the second project. Consequently, the second project was no longer viable and the parties had agreed not to proceed with it sometime in 2012.2. Ming Yang applied in SUM 13 for WPG to provide security for its costs of the proceedings. By a judgment delivered on 29 September 2023 the Singapore International Commercial Court (“the SICC”) ordered WPG to provide security for Ming Yang’s costs up to the commencement of trial in the amount of $70,000. The SICC further ordered the security be provided by 6 October 2023. 3. WPG failed to provide security and did not seek any extension of time to do so. 4. On 13 October 2023, WPG’s lawyers wrote to the court indicating that they wished to make further arguments in respect of SUM 13. On 20 October 2023, the court rejected the request for further arguments, noting that WPG had had ample opportunity to adduce any arguments on the issues raised in the request and in fact did so. The court also directed the parties to provide written submissions as to the quantum of Ming Yang’s costs in respect of SUM 13 and also to provide submissions as to why the court should not exercise its power under O 1 r 11(6) of the Singapore International Commercial Court Rules 2021 (“SICC Rules”) to dismiss the proceedings in OA 2 if the security was not supplied by 6 November 2023.The court’s decision 5. This being a case transferred to the SICC, the court ordered at the time of the transfer that the costs incurred post-transfer would be determined on the SICC regime of costs under O 22 of the SICC Rules: at [5].6. While the court agreed that the matter in SUM 13 was not particularly complex, having regard to the work done by Ming Yang in this matter and taking into account that the matter was heard in the SICC, the court took the view that the sum of $6,000 inclusive of disbursements was reasonable: at [6]. 7. WPG submitted that the court should not exercise its discretion under O 1 r 11(6) of the SICC Rules to make an order dismissing the proceedings unless the security is paid because it intended to file a request for further arguments and may appeal if the court rejects its request. However, the court had rejected the request for further arguments yet no application for permission to appeal had been filed. In any event, even if an application for permission to appeal had been filed, it would not operate as a stay of the proceedings. In the circumstances, the court was satisfied that it would be appropriate to exercise its power to dismiss the proceedings unless security is provided: at [7]–[8].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
