
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE19 July 2022Case summaryTiong Sze Yin Serene v Chan Herng Nieng [2022] SGHC 170--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the High Court (delivered by Justice Tan Siong Thye):Outcome: The High Court dismisses Ms Serene Tiong’s (“Ms Tiong”) claims for medical negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress against Dr Chan Herng Nieng (“Dr Chan”), a psychiatrist with whom she was in an intimate relationship.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Dr Chan did not breach his duty of care to Ms Tiong when he gave her 14 Xanax tablets for short-term use without registering her as his patient: at [81] and [108]•  This case was one of the few cases in Singapore to consider the application of the rule in Wilkinson v Downton [1897] 2 QB 57 (“Wilkinson”). The court held that Ms Tiong failed to prove on a balance of probabilities her claim under the rule in Wilkinson: at [153], [162] and [165]Background 1 This Suit was brought by Ms Tiong against Dr Chan, a psychiatrist with whom she was in a romantic relationship from January 2017 to May 2018.2 Ms Tiong and Dr Chan first met at a social event on or about 21 December 2016. They soon started an intimate relationship in January 2017. During their relationship, Dr Chan gave Ms Tiong Xanax tablets to help her cope with her anxiety.  3 Sometime in April 2018, Ms Tiong discovered WhatsApp messages in Dr Chan’s mobile phone between him and his good friend, Dr Julian Ong Kian Peng (“Dr Ong”). The WhatsApp messages revealed that Dr Chan was unfaithful and was engaging in multiple sexual relationships with other women. The relationship between Ms Tiong and Dr Chan rapidly went south and Dr Chan decided to end the relationship at the end of May 2018.4 Ms Tiong took various actions against Dr Chan and Dr Ong, including attempts to extort Dr Chan and a complaint to the Singapore Medical Council (“SMC”) against Dr Chan and Dr Ong (“the SMC Complaint”). After Ms Tiong sent emails attaching the SMC Complaint to several of Dr Chan’s colleagues, Dr Ong sued Ms Tiong for defamation. Dr Ong was successful on appeal.5 Ms Tiong claimed that Dr Chan acted in breach of his duty of care to her as his de facto patient when he gave her Xanax. Alternatively, Ms Tiong relies on the rule in Wilkinson v Downton [1897] 2 QB 57 (“Wilkinson”) in alleging that Dr Chan had caused her psychiatric harm as a result of his infidelity.The court’s ground of decision6 The court dismissed both of Ms Tiong’s claims for medical negligence and for intentional infliction of emotional distress under the rule in Wilkinson: at [145] and [172]. Medical negligence7 To establish her claim that Dr Chan breached his duty of care to her, Ms Tiong relied heavily on the SMC’s Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines (2016 Edition) (“the ECEG”). The court held that a breach of the ECEG may suggest a breach of the general professional standard, but was otherwise not relevant to the trial: at [47] and [51].8 In determining whether Dr Chan had acted in breach of the general professional standard when he gave Xanax to Ms Tiong without registering her as his patient, the court relied on the evidence of the joint expert, Dr Lim Yun Chin (“Dr Lim”). Dr Lim testified that the ECEG did not prohibit doctors from prescribing medication to their loved ones, and that he would have been similarly prepared to prescribe Xanax to a loved one if he had been in Dr Chan’s shoes: at [62], [63] and [67].9 Ms Tiong gave eight different versions on the critical issues of (a) the frequency with which Dr Chan purportedly gave her Xanax and (b) the quantity of Xanax she received from Dr Chan. Given the lack of contemporaneous evidence supporting Ms Tiong’s case and the ever-changing nature of her evidence, it was highly unsafe to rely on her allegation that Dr Chan gave her 280 or 330 tablets. On the other hand, Dr Chan’s version that he only gave Ms Tiong 14 tablets in May 2018 was more creditable: at [84] and [108].10 Dr Lim gave evidence that the risk of physical dependency would be very low if 14 tablets of Xanax were taken over a period of several days or weeks as short-term use. It followed that a reasonably experienced psychiatrist in Dr Chan’s position would not have foreseen that Ms Tiong would become addicted to Xanax from being given 14 tablets of Xanax. Accordingly, the court found that Dr Chan did not breach his duty of care to ensure Ms Tiong would not become addicted to Xanax or to ascertain its suitability for her when he gave her 14 tablets of Xanax for short-term use: at [109].11 Even on Ms Tiong’s account that Dr Chan gave her 330 tablets of Xanax across a 15-month period, Dr Lim’s expert evidence was that the risk of dependency was low. Furthermore, Ms Tiong was prescribed 330 tablets of Xanax by Dr Thomas Lee from Resilienz Clinic over a shorter period of eight months: at [110]–[112].12 Ms Tiong failed to prove on a balance of probabilities that she suffered harm as a result of Dr Chan giving her Xanax, either in the form of side effects from consuming Xanax or from developing a dependency on Xanax. Her claim that she suffered such harm lacked objective evidence and were unsupported by Dr Lim’s expert evidence: at [118]–[139].13 Ms Tiong’s counsel raised belatedly during the trial that Dr Chan was liable to Ms Tiong for $250,000 worth of damages, on the basis that she suffered from a lifelong dependency on Xanax. There was no evidence that the harm suffered was tantamount to $250,000, the minimum civil jurisdiction of the High Court: at [140]–[144].The rule in Wilkinson v Downton14 The Singapore courts have recognised that the rule in Wilkinson can give rise to an actionable claim in Singapore. However, the precise contours and elements of the rule were yet to be explored fully: at [149] and [150].15 The court considered O (A Child) v Rhodes and another (English PEN and others intervening) [2016] AC 219 and accepted that there are three key elements to make out a claim under the rule in Wilkinson: a conduct element, a mental element and a consequence element: at [152].16 The court found that Ms Tiong’s claim under the rule in Wilkinson was factually unsustainable. The evidence plainly did not indicate that Dr Chan had expressly told Ms Tiong or impliedly suggested, through his conduct or otherwise, that he wanted a long-term and exclusive relationship with a view to marriage: at [158]–[167].17 There was also no evidence that (a) Dr Chan had the intention to cause Ms Tiong physical harm or severe mental or emotional distress, or that (b) Ms Tiong suffered physical harm or recognised psychiatric illness after discovering Dr Chan’s infidelity: at [168]–[171].Assessment of the witnesses18 Ms Tiong’s evidence was confusing, contradictory and highly unreliable. She gave egregious and gravely inconsistent accounts on key aspects of her case, and also appeared to embellish her evidence on critical points. The court found that Ms Tiong’s claims were without merit and was an abuse of process: at [173], [181] and [185].19 While Dr Chan’s testimony was largely untarnished by inconsistencies when weighed against Ms Tiong’s testimony, this did not in any way excuse or vindicate Dr Chan’s disturbing conduct. The court observed that doctors such as Dr Chan, who are entrusted with the care of physically or mentally vulnerable patients, are subject to high levels of professional scrutiny in the discharge of their duties. Dr Chan’s conduct in exploiting Ms Tiong and other women for his own perverse desires was debauched, degenerate and highly deserving of censure: at [191] and [192].20 Accordingly, Ms Tiong’s claims were dismissed. Ms Tiong was ordered to pay costs to Dr Chan: at [193] and [195].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
