
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 July 2022Case summaryPerry, Tamar and another v Esculier, Bonnet Servane Michele Thais and another [2022] SGHC(I) 10 Suit No. 4 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Justice Simon Thorley):Outcome: The Plaintiffs claimed that certain monies (the “Disputed Monies”) transferred into the Defendants’ joint bank account with DBS Bank Ltd in Singapore (the “DBS Account”) were being held subject to a trust in their favour. They therefore sought by this suit to recover those monies. The Singapore International Commercial Court (the “Court”) dismissed the Plaintiffs’ claim. Background 1 The Plaintiffs and Defendants both invested in funds administered by a group of companies trading under various names, each comprising as its principal denominator the word “Lexinta”. These companies were under the control and management of one Mr Bismark Badilla (“Badilla”), a Spanish citizen, resident in Switzerland. For precision, it should also be noted that the first Plaintiff, Ms Tamar Perry (“TP”), did not directly invest with these Lexinta companies, instead, she claimed to be the beneficiary of funds investment by a company called JL Securities (“JL”).2 The Defendants were the earlier investors, having made their initial investment in 2014. Importantly, the Defendants’ investment agreement (the “Esculier Asset Management Agreement” or “Esculier AMA”) with “Lexinta” only identifies some of the Lexinta companies as parties to the agreement, Lexinta Limited (“LL”), Lexinta Management Limited (“LML”) and Lexinta Inc (“L Inc”). There were two other companies identified by the parties to this suit – Lexinta AG (“LAG”) and Lexinta Group Limited (“LGL”) – but they were not listed as parties to the Esculier AMA. 3 In 2015, the Defendants sought to terminate the Esculier AMA. They asked for the return of their principal investment and for any gains to be paid out. It was agreed between the Defendants and Badilla that this would be done in April 2016. 4 Come April 2016, such payments were not forthcoming and Badilla gave the excuse to the Defendants that the Lexinta companies were undergoing an audit. During this period, the Defendants pressed Badilla to make payment, and around this same time – between April 2016 and February 2017 – the Plaintiffs also became investors in the same funds administered by Lexinta, making transfers to a bank account held by LGL in Hong Kong. Again, it is important to note that the Plaintiffs’ investment agreements (the “Plaintiffs’ AMAs”) with “Lexinta” similarly did not name either LAG or LGL; their counterparties were stated to be LL, LML and L Inc.5 Eventually, Badilla caused payment to be made to the Defendants pursuant to their desire to terminate their investment agreement. Such payment was made into the Defendants’ DBS Account. However, after payment was made, it came to light that Badilla may have been running a Ponzi scheme, and was the subject of criminal investigations in Switzerland. 6 Accordingly, the Plaintiffs took steps to identify what happened to the monies they transferred to LGL. They discovered that some of those monies were transferred to the DBS Account (ie, the Disputed Monies), and TP’s lawyers therefore wrote to DBS to demand that those monies be transferred to her. DBS froze the account and availed itself of interpleader proceedings by way of HC/OS 1016/2019 (“OS 1016”). After some procedural complications, OS 1016 led to this suit (ie, SIC/S 4/2020) in the Singapore International Commercial Court. The Plaintiffs’ claim and the Defendants’ counterclaim7 The Plaintiffs’ claim against the Defendants was proprietary, and premised on five central allegations: a. First, that both the Plaintiffs and the Defendants had been deceived by one Badilla into investing in a Ponzi scheme, the Defendants being earlier investors.b. Second, that the Plaintiffs retained an equitable proprietary interest in the funds they paid to LGL because LGL was not a party to the Plaintiffs’ AMAs with LL, LML and L Inc. Thus, LGL held the funds for the benefit of the Plaintiffs either on a constructive, resulting or Quistclose trust.c. Third, that the Plaintiffs’ payments to LGL were then transferred from LGL to the Defendants in a series of back-to-back transactions.d. Fourth, that the Defendants were put on notice of the Ponzi scheme before those back-to-back transfers were made and, therefore, had notice that the Disputed Monies they received from those transfers belonged to someone else.e. Lastly, and as a consequence of the foregoing, it was averred that the Plaintiffs’ equitable proprietary interest in the Disputed Monies persisted into the Defendants’ DBS Account because they did not receive such monies for valuable consideration, in good faith and without notice.8 In connection with the interpleader proceedings, the Plaintiffs provided a cross-undertaking that – should they fail in their suit to recover the Disputed Monies – they would compensate the Defendants for the losses suffered as a result of being denied access to those monies. The Defendants brought a counterclaim on this basis and argued that the Plaintiffs should be made to pay interest at a rate of 5.33% on the Disputed Monies from 15 March 2019, the date on which the monies were frozen in the DBS Account.The Plaintiffs’ claimThe dispositive issue9 Given the Plaintiffs’ positive case, the dispositive issue was whether the Plaintiffs and LGL were in a contractual relationship notwithstanding that the Plaintiffs’ AMAs only expressly listed LL, LML and L Inc as counterparties. This issue was dispositive of the suit because it was the sole basis on which the Plaintiffs claimed to have retained equitable property in the monies transferred to LGL. There was no suggestion that, if a contract existed between the Plaintiffs and LGL, the Plaintiffs may nevertheless have retained property in the monies. Thus, if the Plaintiffs and LGL were in a contractual relationship, the Plaintiffs would not have retained property in the monies transferred to LGL. Consequently, they would also not have property in the monies transferred from LGL to the Defendants, and it followed that the Plaintiffs’ proprietary claim against the Defendants would fail.Basis of the Court’s decision10 The Court examined how the Plaintiffs and the Defendants dealt with the “Lexinta” group of companies, in particular, whether they understood and consequently treated each of the Lexinta companies as distinct entities. Upon its assessment of the evidence, the Court came to the view that the parties did not – at the time of entering their respective AMAs and making the relevant transfers of money – treat LGL as being unique and distinct from the rest of the “Lexinta” group of companies. On this basis, the Court concluded that LGL was impliedly a party to the Plaintiffs’ AMAs, and thus, their claim against the Defendants failed: at [26] to [32], [54] to [66] and [88] to [99].Other significant issues considered in the alternative11 Although the Court’s decision in respect of the above issue was sufficient to dispose of the Plaintiffs’ claim, it nevertheless went on to consider their claim on the alternative footing that LGL was not a party to the Plaintiffs’ AMAs: at [100].12 The significant issues which arose on this alternative footing, and the Court’s decisions on them, were as follows:a. The first issue was the law applicable to Plaintiffs’ claim that a trust arose upon its transfer to LGL. Two options were pleaded – Swiss law and Hong Kong law – and during closing submissions, counsel for the Plaintiffs proposed a third option that the law of Singapore was applicable. After examining the relevant connecting factors, the Court took the view that the applicable law was that of Switzerland: at [74(f)], [75(g)], and [101] to [118].b. The second issue considered was whether, if Swiss law applied, what the outcome of the Plaintiffs’ claim ought to be. The Defendants’ Swiss law expert witness gave evidence that: (i) Swiss law did not recognise the concept of beneficial ownership; and (ii) in order for a Ponzi scheme investor to impugn the validity of a payment to another investor, bad faith on the part of the other investor must be established. The Plaintiffs made no attempt to prove that the Defendants acted in bad faith when they received the Disputed Monies, and so the Court was satisfied that – if Swiss law applied – the Plaintiffs would have no cause of action: at [119] to [135]. c. The third issue the Court considered was a further alternative, that is, what the outcome of the Plaintiffs’ claim would have been had the law of Hong Kong (or Singapore) been applicable. The parties accepted that Hong Kong and Singapore law were the same for the purposes of this case. The Plaintiffs needed to show that the Defendants did not give valuable consideration for their receipt of the Disputed Monies and that a reasonable person in the position of the Defendants would have had notice of the alleged Ponzi scheme. Relying on In the Matter of Stanford International Bank Ltd (in liquidation) [2019] UKPC 45, the Court accepted that where an investor is paid as part of a Ponzi scheme, he receives such payment for consideration as it is paid pursuant to a contractual entitlement. On the question of notice, the Court found on the evidence that the Defendants acted reasonably in the circumstances, and they had therefore established the defence of “bona fide purchaser for value without notice”: at [136] to [185].d. The fourth issue the Court considered was whether TP was indeed the beneficiary of the transfer made by JL. After assessing the evidence, the Court concluded that there was enough to establish – on a balance of probabilities – that the funds paid by JL to LGL’s Hong Kong bank account were for the benefit of TP. Thus, TP had standing to sue, though her claim failed for the reasons above: at [186] to [191].The Defendants’ counterclaim13 The Court adopted the approach suggested in AstraZeneca AB v KRKA dd Novo Mesto [2015] EWCA Civ 484 for assessing a claim for damages made under a cross-undertaking. In summary, this approach involved the application of the following principles: (a) the approach is compensatory not punitive, but the principle of “liberal assessment” should apply; (b) the fact that certainty or precision is not possible does not mean that a principled approach cannot be attempted; (c) if the assessment involves estimating what might have happened in the future the court must make an estimate of the chances of that thing happening and adjust the award by reference to those chances; and (d) the court should not be over eager in scrutinising the evidence or too ready to subject any proposed methodology to minute criticism: at [196].14 Applying these considerations, the Court took the view that an award of damages at the rate of 4% on the Disputed Monies from 15 March 2019 was appropriate, but with credit being given for all sums actually accrued by way of interest on the DBS Account in the meantime: at [197] to [201].  This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
