
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 July 2022Case summaryPublic Prosecutor v Azlin bte Arujunah and other appeals [2022] SGCA 52Criminal Appeals No. 17, 24 and 25 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA allows the Public Prosecutor’s appeal against Azlin binte Arujunah and convicts her of murder under s 300(c) and punishable under s 302(2) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) for causing the death of her young son by inflicting severe scald injuries on the deceased together with her husband, Ridzuan bin Mega Abdul Rahman (“Ridzuan”). CoA allows the Public Prosecutor’s appeal against Ridzuan and sentences him to life imprisonment for a charge of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by means of a heated substance under s 326 of the Penal Code.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (“s 300(c) murder”) had been jointly committed in a “single crime” scenario (that is, multiple offenders jointly commit a single offence of s 300(c) murder), the test set out in Daniel Vijay s/o Katherasan and others v Public Prosecutor [2010] 4 SLR 1119 did not apply, so there is no need for the offender who is charged with a s 300(c) common intention murder charge to have intended to inflict an injury that would be sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. Instead, the test set out in Virsa Singh v State of Punjab AIR 1958 SC 465 applied such that it was sufficient that the said offender intended to cause the actual injury that was inflicted on the victim: at [106] to [118] and [180(b)].•  Section 34 of the Penal Code could be employed to attribute liability for component acts committed by another person to the offender so as to aggregate those component acts with other acts personally committed by the offender to form a “larger” criminal act that was the actual basis of the offence charged. The text of s 34 permitted this, and this interpretation of s 34 would also further its purpose, which was to deter group crimes and expand the criminal liability of those who commonly intend and participate in group crimes beyond the specific actions personally committed by the offender: at [147] to [167] and [180(e)].Background to the appeal and material facts1 Azlin binte Arujunah (“Azlin”) and Ridzuan bin Mega Abdul Rahman (“Ridzuan”) are Singaporeans who were jointly tried before the High Court judge (the “Judge”) on six and nine charges respectively of offences involving various acts of physical abuse they committed against their young son (the “Deceased”) from July until October 2016. Azlin and Ridzuan were 24 years’ old at the time of the offences. The charges included one charge of murder under s 300(c) read with s 34 and punishable under s 302(2) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) (“Penal Code”) brought against each of them (“Murder Charges”). The Murder Charges arose out of four occasions when Azlin and/or Ridzuan intentionally inflicted severe scalding injuries on the Deceased by pouring very hot water on him over the course of a week from 15 to 22 October 2016, which ended in his death. These scalding incidents shall be referred to as Incidents 1 to 4 respectively.2 Azlin was solely responsible for Incidents 1 and 3, while Incidents 2 and 4 were carried out by her acting jointly with Ridzuan. Specifically, the Judge found that Azlin and Ridzuan both scalded the Deceased in Incident 2, while Ridzuan was the only one who physically committed the acts in question in Incident 4 (though these acts were intended by Azlin who had instigated Ridzuan). 3 It is undisputed that it was the cumulative scald injury caused by the collective acts of scalding carried out by Azlin and Ridzuan over the four incidents (“Cumulative Scald Injury”) that killed the Deceased. The hot water that Azlin and Ridzuan poured on the Deceased was between 70 and 90.5℃, and the undisputed medical evidence was that water hotter than 70℃ would cause mid to deep thermal burns even with minimal contact.4 Azlin and Ridzuan had also cruelly abused the Deceased in many other ways in the three months prior to the fatal week. These were the subject of the other charges brought against Azlin and Ridzuan. Ridzuan first used pliers to hurt the Deceased twice in July 2016. This was followed in August 2016 by Azlin hitting the Deceased with a broomstick so hard that he was limping thereafter. Later that same month, Azlin pushed the Deceased so hard that he fell, hitting his head on the edge of a pillar. As a result, he bled from the head. In October 2016, Ridzuan used a heated spoon on the Deceased’s palm, flicked ash from a lighted cigarette on him, and hit him with a hanger.5 In another incident, seemingly after Incident 2, Azlin pushed the Deceased, causing him to hit his head against the wall, and Ridzuan punched the Deceased on the face so hard that his nasal bone was fractured. On 21 and 22 October 2016, Azlin and Ridzuan locked the Deceased in a cat cage which measured 0.91m in length, 0.58m in width, and 0.70m in height, while the Deceased was 1.05m tall at the material time. He was only let out of the cage to be fed. 6 The Judge acquitted Azlin and Ridzuan of their respective Murder Charges primarily because she considered that there was insufficient evidence to infer that Azlin and Ridzuan intended specifically to inflict what was referred to as a “s 300(c) injury”. By this, the Judge meant a bodily injury which is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. The Judge thought that this had to be shown when a conviction was sought in the context of acts done pursuant to a common intention under s 34 of the Penal Code. The Prosecution then sought the conviction of Azlin alone on the following amended charge under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (“alternative s 300(c) charge”):You, … are charged that you, between 15 October 2016 and 22 October 2016 (both dates inclusive), at [her home] … did commit murder by causing the death of [the Deceased], to wit, by intentionally inflicting severe scald injuries on him on four incidents, namely:a) On or around 15 to 17 October 2016, you poured/splashed hot water (above 70 degrees Celsius) at the Deceased multiple times [Incident 1];b) On or around 17 to 19 October 2016, together with Ridzuan bin Mega Abdul Rahman (‘Ridzuan’) and in furtherance of the common intention of you both, both of you splashed several cups of hot water (above 70 degrees Celsius) at the Deceased [Incident 2];c) On or around 21 October 2016, you threw 9 to 10 cups of hot water (above 70 degrees Celsius) at the Deceased [Incident 3]; andd) On 22 October 2016 at about 12 noon, together with Ridzuan and in furtherance of the common intention of you both, Ridzuan poured/splashed hot water (above 70 degrees Celsius) at the Deceased [Incident 4];which injuries are cumulatively sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, and you have thereby committed an offence under s 300(c) read with s 34 in respect of incidents (b) and (d) above, and punishable under s 302(2) of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed).[emphasis added]7 The Judge rejected the alternative s 300(c) charge for two broad reasons: see Public Prosecutor v Azlin bte Arujunah and another [2020] SGHC 168 (“GD”). The first main reason was her view that s 34 was not a “free-standing principle of attribution” that allowed the court to attribute liability for acts done by another that formed a part of the “criminal act” that was the subject of the charge against the accused person (GD at [121]). The second reason was that, in the Judge’s view, for Ridzuan’s acts in Incidents 2 and 4 “to be attributed to Azlin for the purposes of liability under s 300(c) of the Penal Code”, the “common intention they needed to share” was the common intention to inflict a s 300(c) injury (GD at [121]). In coming to the latter view, the Judge relied on what she understood to be the Court of Appeal’s ruling in Daniel Vijay s/o Katherasan and others v Public Prosecutor [2010] 4 SLR 1119 (“Daniel Vijay”) to the effect that, if two offenders, A and B, intended to commit a certain offence, say robbery, but in the course of carrying out that intention, one of the offenders, A, committed the offence of murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code, then B could only be held jointly liable for murder under s 300(c) read with s 34 of the Penal Code if B intended specifically that A should inflict a s 300(c) injury, meaning that B must have intended that an injury that was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death was inflicted (“Daniel Vijay test”) (see GD at [97]). The Judge found that the Prosecution was not able to prove a common intention to inflict the s 300(c) injury beyond reasonable doubt in this case, and so she held that the alternative s 300(c) charge was not made out (GD at [110] and [121]).8 In the event, the Judge amended the Murder Charges to charges of voluntarily causing grievous hurt by means of a heated substance under s 326 of the Penal Code and sentenced Azlin to an aggregate sentence of 27 years’ imprisonment and an additional 12 months’ imprisonment in lieu of caning, and Ridzuan to an aggregate sentence of 27 years’ imprisonment and 24 strokes of the cane. In particular, for Azlin, the Judge amended her Murder Charge to four charges under s 326 of the Penal Code for Incidents 1 to 4 respectively (charges “C1B2”, “C1B3”, “C1B4”, and “C1B1” respectively). The two charges for Incidents 2 and 4 – charges C1B3 and C1B1 – are under s 326 read with s 34 of the Penal Code, and the Judge imposed a sentence of 12 years’ imprisonment and an additional 6 months’ imprisonment in lieu of caning for charge C1B3, and a sentence of 14 years’ imprisonment and an additional 6 months’ imprisonment in lieu of caning for charge C1B1. As for Ridzuan, the Judge amended his Murder Charge to two charges under s 326 read with s 34 of the Penal Code for Incidents 2 and 4 respectively (charges “D1B2” and “D1B1” respectively), and the Judge imposed a sentence of 12 years’ imprisonment and 12 strokes of the cane for charge D1B2 and 14 years’ imprisonment and 12 strokes of the cane for charge D1B1. 9 CA/CCA 17/2020 (“CCA 17”) is the Prosecution’s appeal against the Judge’s decision not to amend the Murder Charge against Azlin to the alternative s 300(c) charge. CA/CCA 24/2020 (“CCA 24”) and CA/CCA 25/2020 (“CCA 25”) are the Prosecution’s appeals against the Judge’s decision not to sentence Ridzuan and Azlin to life imprisonment for charge D1B1 and charge C1B3 respectively. Professor Goh Yihan SC was appointed as amicus curiae to assist the court in its determination of  the issues in CCA 17.Decision on appeal in CCA 17 and CCA 2510 A “dual crime” scenario was where the offenders commonly intended to commit a “primary criminal act” but, in the course of carrying out that primary criminal act, one of the offenders – the “primary offender” – committed an additional “collateral criminal act”. The primary offender was the person who directly and physically committed the collateral criminal act, and the secondary offender was the person who did not directly and physically commit the collateral criminal act. Under the existing law, where murder under s 300(c) of the Penal Code (“s 300(c) murder”) had been committed by a primary offender as the collateral criminal act in such a “dual crime” scenario, the Daniel Vijay test applied to determine if the secondary offender charged with a charge under s 300(c) read with s 34 of the Penal Code (“s 300(c) common intention murder charge”) should be constructively liable for the s 300(c) murder: at [87] to [100] and [180(a)].11 On the other hand, where s 300(c) murder had been jointly committed in a “single crime” scenario (that is, multiple offenders jointly commit a single offence of s 300(c) murder), the current state of the law was such that the Daniel Vijay test did not apply, so there was no need for the offender who was charged with a s 300(c) common intention murder charge to have intended to inflict a s 300(c) injury (that is, an injury that would be sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death). Instead, the test set out in Virsa Singh v State of Punjab AIR 1958 SC 465 applied such that it was sufficient that the said offender intended to cause the actual injury that was inflicted on the victim: at [106] to [118] and [180(b)].12 However, the present case was neither a “single crime” nor a “dual crime” scenario. Instead, the present case presented a novel third type of situation where s 34 might potentially be applicable. This was where there was a variety of acts committed by multiple offenders, and each act could potentially form a distinct offence because the offenders’ intentions in respect of the aggregate of the acts might be different even if they might share the intention to commit some of the acts. Moreover, these acts, when aggregated, potentially form a different offence: at [98] to [124].13 Furthermore, the alternative s 300(c) charge was not a s 300(c) common intention murder charge. This was because s 34 was only being employed in the alternative s 300(c) charge to satisfy part of the criminal act forming the actus reus of s 300(c) murder. On the other hand, s 34 was conventionally used to render an offender liable for all the elements of the offence once the requirements of s 34 were satisfied. Thus, the Daniel Vijay test was irrelevant to the alternative s 300(c) charge, as that test went toward the common intention element of s 34. In this case, the alternative s 300(c) charge did not even allege that the entire criminal act forming the basis of the charge – Incidents 1 to 4 – were done by several persons in furtherance of their common intention, as was required under s 34. The question then was whether s 34 could be employed in the manner envisaged under the alternative s 300(c) charge, which was to attribute liability for component acts committed by another person to the offender so as to aggregate those component acts with other acts personally committed by the offender to form a “larger” criminal act that was the actual basis of the offence charged (the “expanded interpretation” of s 34): at [128] to [134] and [180(c)].14 The Judge’s comments at [121] of the GD that s 34 was not a “free-standing principle of attribution” to attribute liability for component parts of the “criminal act” accurately reflected the state of the law on s 34 as it was at the time of the judgment. However, the specific issue that the Court of Appeal was concerned with in the present case had not arisen in the cited cases that had interpreted s 34, all of which dealt with either a “dual crime” or “single crime” situation. One reason why s 34 had not been given the expanded interpretation was that no court had explicitly been asked to consider doing so. Therefore, the prevailing interpretation of s 34 was not dispositive of the question whether s 34 of the Penal Code could, in principle, be given the expanded interpretation: at [138] to [141], [144] to [145] and [180(d)].15 The Court of Appeal held that s 34 could be employed to attribute liability for component acts committed by another person (Incidents 2 and 4 committed by Ridzuan in this case) to the offender (Azlin) so as to aggregate those component acts with other acts personally committed by the offender (Incidents 1 and 3 committed by Azlin) to form a “larger” criminal act (the four scalding incidents cumulatively) that was the actual basis of the offence charged (the alternative s 300(c) charge). The text of s 34 permitted this, and this interpretation of s 34 would also further its purpose, which was to deter group crimes and expand the criminal liability of those who commonly intend and participate in group crimes beyond the specific actions personally committed by the offender: at [147] to [167] and [180(e)].16 When considering whether s 34 was satisfied when it was employed in the manner under the expanded interpretation, the traditional elements of s 34 should be applied in relation to the relevant component acts. It was also important to consider, in each case, whether the aggregation of the component acts and intentions would achieve the concurrence of the actus reus and mens rea of the offence charged: at [172] and [180(e)].17 Three elements were required to establish joint liability pursuant to s 34: (a) there must be a “criminal act” done by several persons (the criminal act element); (b) that act must have been done “in furtherance of the common intention of all” (the common intention element); and (c) the offender must have participated in the criminal act (the participation element). In this case, it was clear that the requirements of s 34 were satisfied to attribute Ridzuan’s acts in Incidents 2 and 4 to Azlin. The criminal act element was satisfied because there were criminal acts (Incidents 2 and 4) which were done by several persons (Azlin and Ridzuan): at [85(a)] and [182].18 The participation and common intention elements were also satisfied. For Incident 2, Azlin was acting in implicit agreement with Ridzuan for them to splash hot water on the Deceased together. It was Azlin who first became angry at the Deceased and splashed hot water on the Deceased repeatedly all over his body. When Ridzuan later also splashed hot water on the Deceased together with Azlin, Azlin not only did not stop Ridzuan but also pursued the Deceased around the house and splashed hot water on him repeatedly as well. Thus, it was clear that the acts of scalding in Incident 2 were done in furtherance of Azlin and Ridzuan’s common intention, and it was clear that Azlin participated in this criminal act: at [182(a)].19 For Incident 4, it was Azlin who woke Ridzuan up when the Deceased refused to bathe and who asked him to deal with the Deceased. When Ridzuan started splashing hot water at the Deceased, Azlin, together with Ridzuan, continued to shout at the Deceased to remove his shorts. Thus, it was also clear that the acts of scalding in Incident 4 were done in furtherance of Azlin and Ridzuan’s common intention, and Azlin also participated in this criminal act: at [182(b)]. 20 In addition, the “aggregation” of Azlin’s acts and intentions in Incidents 2 and 4 with her acts and intentions in Incidents 1 and 3 would also satisfy the actus reus (causation of the Cumulative Scald Injury) and mens rea (intention to cause the Cumulative Scald Injury) requirements of the alternative s 300(c) charge. Azlin’s commission of Incidents 1 and 3, when combined with her joint commission of Incidents 2 and 4 with Ridzuan, gave rise to the commission of Incidents 1 to 4 which was what caused the Cumulative Scald Injury. It was not disputed that this was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, and did cause the death of the Deceased. This satisfied the actus reus for the alternative s 300(c) charge: at [183(a)].21 It was undisputed that Azlin intended to commit Incidents 1 and 3 and carried out these incidents herself. It was also undisputed that Azlin intended to commit Incidents 2 and 4. The aggregation of Azlin’s intention to commit Incidents 1 and 3 with her intention to commit Incidents 2 and 4 with Ridzuan amounted to an intention to commit all four incidents of scalding to cause the Cumulative Scald Injury. This satisfied the mens rea requirement for the alternative s 300(c) charge, which was the intention to cause the particular injury caused (the Cumulative Scald Injury): at [183(b)].22 Accordingly, the Court of Appeal found that it was clear beyond reasonable doubt that Azlin intended to cause all four scalding incidents, and that Azlin was guilty of the alternative s 300(c) charge beyond reasonable doubt. The appeal in CCA 17 was allowed such that Azlin’s conviction on the four s 326 charges was replaced by her conviction on the alternative s 300(c) charge: at [184] and [229(a)]. 23 In light of the Court’s finding in CCA 17, the appeal in CCA 25 was dismissed as it was moot. The Court of Appeal directed that the matter be adjourned for further submissions on sentence pending the intimation of the Prosecution’s position on sentencing for the alternative s 300(c) charge: at [190] and [229(c)].Decision on appeal in CCA 2424 The Judge found that life imprisonment was not appropriate for Ridzuan because this was not the “worst case” of offending under s 326 of the Penal Code. The Judge reasoned that there were “multiple individual charges” in the instant case and that “to address the consequence of all four incidents in the sentence on one offence could be an excessive sentence for the particular charge” (GD at [189]). However, the Court of Appeal found that the Judge seemed to have overlooked the fact that the totality principle possessed not only a limiting function, in guarding against an excessive overall sentence, but also a boosting effect on individual sentences where they would otherwise result in a manifestly inadequate overall sentence: at [206]. 25 The Judge failed to consider the multiple cumulative aggravating factors in this case. First, there was a prolonged period of escalating abuse. Second, the manner in which the offence was carried out was particularly cruel, as the Deceased was burnt extensively over his entire body, including sensitive parts of his body such as his face and genital area. The Deceased’s distress from Incident 4 could only be appreciated once all the scalding acts were considered collectively, as the final incident of scalding was done not for the first time on unblemished skin, but on skin that had already been repeatedly and brutally injured over three previous scalding incidents. Third, the offences were committed by the Deceased’s own parents against their young child. It was because it was the Deceased’s parents who were committing the offences against a defenceless young child in their own home that the abuse was able to continue for four whole months in an escalating fashion from July until it culminated in the final incident in October 2016: at [207] to [214].26 Ridzuan’s case was devoid of any material mitigating factors. First, Ridzuan was a fully grown working adult aged 24 years when he committed the offences. Therefore, the argument that Ridzuan was “young” when he committed the offences did not move the Court of Appeal. Second, it appeared from Ridzuan’s investigative statements that he was not even truly remorseful for the actions that the Deceased suffered. Finally, Ridzuan’s reliance on his low adaptive functioning also held no water. The intellectual assessment test which was administered on Ridzuan to test his adaptive functioning involved a series of questions in which Ridzuan had to rate his ability and initiative in performing various activities. While Ridzuan’s test score showed an extremely low to low average adaptive functioning, the psychologist who conducted the test on Ridzuan clarified on the stand that Ridzuan’s low test score was because he self-reported his actions in a way that did not accurately reflect his actual adaptive functioning in reality; Ridzuan actually had the ability to perform tasks, but he simply chose not to do so and to rely on others instead. In other words, Ridzuan’s adaptive functioning was higher than what his test scores suggested. There was no other expert evidence to support an inference that Ridzuan was unable to appreciate the consequences of his acts due to his purported low adaptive functioning or low intelligence: at [215] to [225].27 The combination of the multiple cumulative aggravating factors in this case and the fact that there were no material mitigating factors made this one of the worst type of cases under s 326 of the Penal Code which justified the maximum sentence of life imprisonment: at [206] and [226].28 The appeal in CCA 24 was allowed and the Court of Appeal amended Ridzuan’s sentence for charge D1B1 to life imprisonment. The sentences for the other charges which Ridzuan had been convicted on were to run concurrently with the sentence of life imprisonment for charge D1B1, pursuant to s 307(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (“CPC”): at [226].29 However, a sentence of caning could not be run “concurrently”. This is because s 306(2) of the CPC, which empowered the court to run sentences concurrently, only applied to the sentence of imprisonment. The Prosecution only submitted for an aggregate sentence of life imprisonment, but the Prosecution had not sought a reduction of Ridzuan’s sentence for charge D1B2 to remove the 12 strokes of the cane imposed for that charge. Given the lack of clarity, the Court of Appeal directed the parties to address the Court on this by way of further submissions. Thus, the appeal in CCA 24 was allowed, but with the parties’ further submissions to be made on the sentence of caning: at [227] to [228] and [229(b)].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
