
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE6 July 2022Case summaryKiri Industries Ltd v Senda International Capital Ltd and another and other appeals and other matters [2022] SGCA(I) 5--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Robert French IJ):Outcome: CoA allows appeal in part by minority shareholder against SICC’s decision on the valuation of its shares for the purposes of a buyout order made under s 216(2) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed). Background1 DyStar Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“DyStar”) is part of a global group in the business of manufacturing and selling dyes. Senda International Capital Ltd (“Senda”) was a majority shareholder of DyStar with 62.43% of its shares. Kiri industries Ltd (“Kiri”) was a 37.57% shareholder in DyStar. Kiri commenced proceedings against Senda in 2015, alleging the latter of oppressive conduct. On 3 July 2018, a three judge coram of the Singapore International Commercial Court (“SICC”) found for Kiri and ordered that Senda purchase Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar, which was to be valued as at the date of the judgment. In making the buyout order, the SICC held that the value of Kiri’s shareholding was to take into consideration the effects of various aspects of oppressive conduct by Zhejiang Longsheng Group Co Ltd (“Longsheng”), of which Senda was a wholly-owned subsidiary. 2 Further proceedings then took place before the SICC to determine how Kiri’s shareholding was to be valued for the purposes of the buyout order. For that, the SICC heard expert evidence presented by the parties – Kiri’s valuation expert being Ms Roula Harfouche (“Ms Harfouche”) and Senda’s being Mr Lie Kok Keong (“Mr Lie”). The SICC delivered its decision over four judgments. In sum, it accepted the interim valuation of US$1,636m put forth by Ms Harfouche. However, it directed that several adjustments were to be made to that interim valuation. It also declined to impose any discretionary enhancement on DyStar’s share value. It eventually adjudged the final valuation of Kiri’s shares as US$481.6m for the purposes of the buyout order. 3 Kiri and Senda both appealed. Their appeals raised 11 distinct issues (each of which was designated by the Court of Appeal as an “Appeal Issue”) arising from of the SICC’s judgments concerning matters affecting the valuation of DyStar and adjustments for various factors, as well as the valuation of Kiri’s shareholding and adjustments relevant to that. Appeal Issues 1 to 5 were raised by Senda’s appeals while Appeal Issues 6 to 11 were raised by Kiri’s appeals. The court’s decision 4 Appeal Issue 1 arose from the SICC’s rejection of Senda’s objection in the valuation proceedings that various broker and market reports relied on by Ms Harfouche in her valuation exercise were inadmissible hearsay. Senda appealed against that decision. However, in its arguments, Senda accepted that the Court of Appeal could adopt Ms Harfouche’s interim valuation of US$1,636m and that its case in these appeals was instead focused on how the SICC-directed adjustments were to be applied to that interim valuation. Accordingly, whether or not those reports constitute inadmissible hearsay did not arise for determination by the Court of Appeal and the court did not have to consider Senda’s challenge under Appeal Issue 1. However, the Court of Appeal observed that it is common practice in commercial litigation for expert evidence to draw upon material of the kind to which Ms Harfouche referred in her reports: at [3], [40(a)] and [43]. 5 In her valuation exercise, Ms Harfouche had applied different valuation methods like the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) method and various markets-based approaches. Her chosen valuation (and which the SICC accepted as DyStar’s interim valuation) corresponded to DyStar’s enterprise value derived from one of the valuation methods under the markets-based approaches: by comparing the EV/Revenue of companies comparable to DyStar to their EBITDA-Capex margins in financial year (“FY”) 2017. However, in incorporating the financial impact of the expiration of two of DyStar’s patents (the Orange 288 patent and a patent for the manufacture of a solution known as Indigo 40%) into DyStar’s valuation, Ms Harfouche had applied the DCF method. This worked to Kiri’s advantage as it meant that the financial impact of the patent expirations on DyStar’s valuation was lesser. Before the SICC, Senda complained that Ms Harfouche, by doing so, had “force-fed” the DCF method into her valuation of DyStar. 6 Appeal Issue 2 arose from the SICC’s decision to accept this approach of Ms Harfouche’s as an explicable “compromise solution”.  Senda appealed against that decision. It submitted that there is a clear basis for the court to find that Ms Harfouche’s approach was arbitrary as she had adopted an approach to the adjustments inconsistent with the valuation methodology she had applied to arrive at the interim valuation of US$1,636m, and so her approach should not be accepted. The Court of Appeal rejected Senda’s arguments and held that there was no impermissible arbitrariness in the approach adopted by Ms Harfouche, that the SICC did not err in its consideration of her application of that methodology and had given a perfectly comprehensible explanation of why Ms Harfouche adopted a different approach between valuation of the impact of the patent expirations and the other SICC-directed adjustments that were to be made. Senda therefore failed in its challenge under Appeal Issue 2: at [52], [63] to [68], [71] to [75] and [81]. 7 Appeal Issue 3 arose from the SICC’s decision that the closure of two of DyStar’s plants in China had no impact on DyStar’s valuation. The first of these plants was in Nanjing and it had closed following an explosion in February 2018. The second of them was in Wuxi and it closed after the plot of land on which it occupied was returned to the Chinese authorities pursuant to a 2014 acquisition and redevelopment notice. Both these events were foreseeable as at the valuation date of 3 July 2018. The SICC held that there was ample evidence that DyStar had in place contingency plans to ameliorate the impact of the closures of the Nanjing and Wuxi plants. Senda appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. It argued that the SICC failed to consider the limitations of those contingency plans. It pointed to the evidence of Mr Eric Hopmann (“Mr Hopmann”), DyStar’s CEO, who had testified before the SICC, that there were limitations to those mitigating measures. Senda argued that the SICC could only have concluded that there was no financial impact from the closures of the plants if it had been satisfied that the effect of those closures could be fully mitigated. 8 The Court of Appeal held that there was no demonstrable error on the part of the SICC which warranted it interfering with the SICC’s findings in relation to the closures of the Nanjing and Wuxi plants. The Court of Appeal held that the mere fact that reasonable arguments for a different conclusion exist did not warrant the court substituting a different conclusion based on those arguments. Senda therefore failed in its challenge under Appeal Issue 3: at [82] to [83], [92] to [101] and [117]. 9 As mentioned earlier, two of DyStar’s patents were a subject of these court proceedings – the Orange 288 patent and the Indigo 40% patent. Appeal Issue 4 arose from the SICC’s decision that the expirations of these patents would only have a finite impact on DyStar’s valuation. The SICC rejected Senda’s contention that these patent expirations would have a perpetual impact. It considered that the evidence did not support such a finding. In particular, the SICC noted that Mr Hopmann himself had forecast a financial impact of five years arising from these patent expirations but not beyond that. Senda appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. The Court of Appeal held that the SICC was entitled to reach the conclusion that it did based on the evidence before it and there were no grounds for the court to intervene with that conclusion. The only concrete projection put before the SICC was the management forecast from Mr Hopmann which demonstrated a five-year impact. Senda had no evidence to establish that the effect of the patent expirations would extend indefinitely. Senda therefore failed in its challenge under Appeal Issue 4: at [123], [128] to [129] and [140] to [144]. 10 The next two issues in the appeals arose from matters affecting the calculation of DyStar’s cost of equity. They related to “size premium” and “country risk premium”. As the SICC explained, in broad terms, a size premium may be applied to a company’s cost of equity to reflect the fact that smaller companies are subject to greater risks, although it noted that the precise basis for awarding a size premium is obscure. On the other hand, as agreed between the parties’ experts, a country risk premium is applied when the company operates in jurisdictions prone to volatility, which results in those jurisdictions being classified as riskier by market literature.11 Appeal Issue 5 arose from the SICC’s decision that no size premium be applied. The SICC did not accept that DyStar, with an annual revenue of over US$1b, earned from a global spread of business, should be characterised as a “risky small company” for which investors would demand a size premium. It concluded that it would be inappropriate for a size premium to be applied because there was little indication, if any, that DyStar would be regarded as a risky investment by virtue of its size. Senda appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. It argued that a study relied on by its expert Mr Lie had shown that a size premium was applied even to companies with an annual revenue between US$129m up to US$123.8b. 12 The Court of Appeal held that the application of a size premium reflects an assessment of a market response to a theoretical sale of DyStar and the SICC was entitled to take the view, which it did, that clear evidence was needed to demonstrate that DyStar presented clear and patent risks to its investors by virtue of its size within the market in which it operated. The Court of Appeal held that the SICC had not been shown to be in error in reaching the conclusion that there was no such clear evidence. Senda therefore failed in its challenge under Appeal Issue 5: at [145], [149] to [152], [154] and [159]. 13 Appeal Issue 6 arose from the SICC’s decision that a country risk premium be applied. The SICC held so because DyStar had a widespread global presence, and its operations were not restricted to countries insulated from risk. The SICC also rejected Ms Harfouche’s view that diversification had insulated DyStar from country-specific risks because Ms Harfouche had not built a model using a weighted average of the risk based on DyStar’s global business activity, which would demonstrate that the risk was negligible or absent. Kiri appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. The Court of Appeal held that the arguments advanced by Kiri did not persuade it that the SICC was in error in its approach. Specifically, the Court of Appeal noted that, while Kiri’s case was that country risks of a globally diversified corporation like DyStar are diversifiable and effectively cancel out, that had not been Ms Harfouche’s evidence. Accordingly, Kiri failed in its challenge under Appeal Issue 6: at [160] to [161] and [165]. 14 Appeal Issue 7 arose from the SICC’s decision that a downward adjustment be made to DyStar’s interim valuation on account of the expiration of the Orange 288 patent and the Indigo 40% patent. The SICC reasoned that this was because there had been no evidence of any contingency plans put in place in respect of the expiration of both patents. Kiri appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. The Court of Appeal held that the conclusion which the SICC reached was one that was reasonably open on the basis of the evidence before it and in the nature of an evaluative judgment. There was no reason for disturbing the SICC’s conclusion. Kiri therefore failed in its challenge under Appeal Issue 7: at [120], [125] and [167] to [168]. 15 Appeal Issue 8 arose from the SICC’s decision that a discount for lack of marketability (“DLOM”) be applied in the valuation of Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar. The SICC held that a DLOM be imposed on Kiri’s shares because those shares were not readily marketable. The SICC held that a DLOM should generally be applied to both the income and market-based approaches to valuation because both approaches arrive at the price of the shares which an average market participant would be willing to pay, based on either the company’s expected future earnings or the company’s market value predicted by reference to comparable companies. Since market participants would generally pay less for illiquid assets, compared to assets that they could easily sell to others, that would necessitate a discount in the former case. 16 Kiri appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. It argued that the focus of the court in exercising its discretion under s 216(2)(d) of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (“the Companies Act”) is to fix a price which is fair in a forced buyout situation. On the other hand, Senda submitted that it should be left to the valuer to determine whether listed company inputs had been used in the valuation of a company and whether a DLOM should apply to adjust for a difference in marketability. Senda also submitted that Kiri’s arguments were wrong as a matter of law. Since the valuation of shares for a buyout order is intended to be “fair, just and equitable” and to prevent “unfairness”, for Kiri to persuade the court that a DLOM be disapplied, Senda argued, it must demonstrate some kind of link between the disapplication of a DLOM and how that would achieve “fairness” in the circumstances, which Kiri has not. 17 The Court of Appeal considered that this issue required it to begin from first principles governing the operation of s 216 of the Companies Act. It held that an important distinction was to be made between the general criterion of fairness which the court must apply in shaping the orders made under s 216(2) of the Companies Act and the valuation test of “fair market value” which a valuer may be required to apply. The general rubric of fairness which informs the exercise of the discretion under s 216(2) of the Companies Act would readily authorise the court to conclude that a limitation to “fair market value”, assessed in the hypothetical context of willing buyers and sellers, would not be fair. Thus, the Court of Appeal held, it is appropriate that courts making buyout orders and referring the question of valuation to an independent expert should first determine whether it is appropriate to order a DLOM. The answers to those questions respond to a broader principle than the quantification of the discounts, which is properly within the sphere of the experts. It is not for the court to substitute the judgment of the valuer for the judgment which the court has to make in determining whether the application of a DLOM is fair or not.  The Court of Appeal held that, in this case, a DLOM should not be applied. It considered that there was no reason why a sale forced upon Kiri by Senda’s conduct, not involving any contributory conduct by Kiri, should reflect anything less than the enterprise value of DyStar underpinning the value of Kiri’s shareholding. Kiri therefore succeeded in its challenge under Appeal Issue 8: at [172] to [173], [185], [200], [204] to [205], [217], [237], [241] and [244] to [245]. 18 In the liability tranche of these proceedings, the SICC had held the Orange 288 patent to have been exploited by Longsheng, which used it in producing black and blue disperse dyes, and that such exploitation amounted to oppression. The next two issues in the appeals arose in connection with how the benefits derived by Longsheng from that exploitation was to be factored into DyStar’s valuation. 19 Appeal Issue 9 arose from the SICC’s decision that the benefits obtained by Longsheng from its exploitation of the Orange 288 patent be incorporated into the valuation of DyStar based on the value of the notional licence fee that Longsheng would have paid to DyStar for its use of that patent. The SICC rejected Kiri’s contention that DyStar should be entitled to an account of profits for those benefits obtained by Longsheng. It reasoned that Longsheng would have been able to exploit the Orange 288 patent with DyStar’s consent, and the failure by Longsheng to obtain DyStar’s consent was the oppressive act. Had Longsheng sought and obtained DyStar’s consent, DyStar would have charged Longsheng a licence fee. The SICC also accepted Senda’s contention that DyStar was not in a position to fully exploit the Orange 288 patent itself. Kiri appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. It argued that the SICC had been wrong in limiting itself by looking at Longsheng’s oppression solely through the lens of breach of contract. 20 The Court of Appeal held that Kiri has not shown that the remedial discretion invested in the SICC under s 216(2) of the Companies Act miscarried because the reasoning which led the SICC to adopt a notional licence fee was perfectly defensible as it was reflective of the reality that the only counterfactual was Longsheng’s use of the Orange 288 patent under a licensing arrangement. Accordingly, Kiri’s challenge under Appeal Issue 9 failed: at [246] to [247], [254] to [256] and [258] to [260]. 21 Appeal Issue 10 arose from the SICC’s decision that the notional licence fee, by which the benefits derived by Longsheng from its use of the Orange 288 patent was to be assessed, must cover what DyStar would have charged Longsheng for exploiting the Orange 288 patent. In calculating the notional licence fee, the SICC had relied on figures of the quantities of products manufactured using the patent put forth by Senda, even though it accepted Kiri’s submission about Senda’s incomplete disclosure of information in that regard. This was because, the SICC explained, there had been no evidence on exactly how severe the under-disclosure by Senda was. Kiri appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. It argued it had put forward before the SICC a compelling estimate of the quantity of those products that Longsheng had produced using the Orange 288 patent and it was inexplicable that the SICC accepted Senda’s numbers without regard to its figure. 22 The Court of Appeal held that it was not clear whether and to what extent the SICC had accepted Kiri’s position with respect to this issue, which was an important quantum element in the assessment of damages. The Court of Appeal considered that this was not an issue to be disposed of simply on the application of a burden of proof (which the SICC did) where that burden operated to the disadvantage of Kiri because of the apparent under-disclosure of Senda. The Court of Appeal held that the appropriate course was to remit this aspect of the matter to the SICC for determination on the best evidence available to it. Kiri’s challenge under Appeal Issue 10 therefore succeeded: at [262], [266], [270] and [290] to [292]. 23 Before the SICC, Kiri submitted that it should have an adjustment to the final purchase price in the buyout order as an element of compensation for the oppression, and that the adjustment should run from the date of the Writ of Summons, with the statutory default interest rate of 5.33% be used as a proxy for the adjustment. Appeal Issue 11 arose from the SICC’s decision that there was no basis in this case to make an adjustment to the value of DyStar’s shares. The SICC accepted that in an oppression case the court has a discretion to enhance or adjust the value of the shares to give a fair and equitable result. However, the SICC reasoned, based on existing case law, that such an enhancement had been made to reflect the value of the shares as at the date of the buyout order because events occurring in the intervening period between the date of the buyout order and the valuation date (which stood apart from each other) have had an impact on its value. The SICC therefore found those cases distinguishable from the case before it, where the date of the valuation and the date of the buyout order were the same. 24 Kiri appealed against the SICC’s decision on that point. It submitted that there was a gap between the valuation date and the date of implementation of the buyout order in this case and that it should be compensated for the deferred payment of its investment in DyStar. This was because any order made on 3 July 2018 for Senda to buyout Kiri’s shares could not come into effect unless and until the issue of valuation had been fully determined by the SICC. Kiri submitted that the interval for which it should be compensated for the deferred payment would be from 3 July 2018 (the valuation date) to the date of the actual transaction of the buyout order, or in the alternative, 21 July 2021, which was the date the SICC rendered a final determination on the value of Kiri’s shares, or the date on which the Court of Appeal finalises the valuation figure. 25 The Court of Appeal considered it open to a court to order a discretionary enhancement of the value of the shares to be purchased under a buyout order, particularly where the innocent minority shareholder is to receive the value of the shares as at the buyout date and has to wait for a significant period before he receives payment for the value of those shares. It considered that this may occur where there are protracted valuation proceedings before a final figure is adjudged and an enforceable judgment is delivered. The Court of Appeal considered that a factor relevant to this exercise of discretion was whether either party had been responsible to any extent for the delay which occurred in the execution of the buyout order, although there were no prescriptive rules governing the operation of the discretion. However, the Court of Appeal considered that Kiri had not asked the SICC to consider a discretionary enhancement in the context of a delay between the making of a buyout order and its completion. Thus, what had been put before the Court of Appeal was not an appeal point but an application by Kiri to vary the outcome secured before the SICC on a basis not clearly put before the SICC. The Court of Appeal considered that, while there may well have been merit in such an application, it was not a matter on which the court should intervene as that would amount to an exercise of original rather than appellate jurisdiction. Kiri’s challenge under Appeal Issue 11 therefore failed: at [293] to [296], [302] and [323] to [325]. Conclusion26 For the foregoing reasons, the Court of Appeal dismissed the entirety of Senda’s appeal and allowed Kiri’s appeal in respect of Appeal Issue 8 and Appeal Issue 10. The Court of Appeal thus set aside: (a) the SICC’s decision that a DLOM be applied in determining the value of Kiri’s shareholding in DyStar for the purposes of the buyout order; and (b) the quantum of the notional licence fee payable by Longsheng to DyStar for its wrongful exploitation of the Orange 288 patent as determined by the SICC. The Court of Appeal remitted the matter to the SICC to give effect to the judgment of the court in relation to those issues: at [326] to [327] and [330]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. 
