
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE8 November 2023Case SummaryConsorzio di Tutela della Denominazione di  Origine Controllata Prosecco v Australian Grape and Wine Incorporated [2023] SGCA 37Civil Appeal No. 50 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Judgment of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judith Prakash JCA):Outcome: The Court of Appeal (the "Court") allowed the appeal and held that the Geographical Indication, “Prosecco”, should be allowed to proceed to registration because the ground of opposition under s 41(1)(f) of the Geographical Indications Act had not been made out.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  A Trade Mark is a species of intellectual property that is distinct from a Geographical Indication (“GI”) and it cannot be assumed that the principles governing the refusal of registration of a trade mark under s 7 of the Trade Marks Act 1998 can be wholly imported into the Geographical Indications Act 2014 (No 19 of 2014) (the “GIA”): at [47].•  Section 41(1)(f) of the GIA authorises refusal of registration of a GI that contains the name of an animal breed or plant variety that is likely to mislead the consumer as statutorily prescribed. In determining its applicability, one must first consider whether the GI sought to be registered contains such a name. This is to be done on an objective basis. It is only when this element is met that one can move on to consider whether the GI sought to be registered is likely to mislead consumers into thinking that the product could only originate from the specified region, when, in fact, its true origin could be other geographical locations where the plant variety or animal breed used to make the product are found. In answering this question, it is necessary to focus on matters which the Singapore consumer is aware of given that such awareness naturally affects whether the Singapore consumer is likely to be misled by the GI that is sought to be registered: at [30], [51] – [61].•  Three factors should be taken into account in considering whether a GI is likely to mislead the Singapore consumer. First, whether the average consumer here is even aware that the name in question is indeed the name of a plant variety or an animal breed. Second, whether the consumer is aware that the plant variety or animal breed in question is involved in the production of the product over which GI protection is sought. Third, whether the GI sought to be registered is identical with the name of the plant variety or animal breed: at [56]–[59].•  While advertising materials may be useful insofar as they provide evidence as to how the product for which the GI is being registered has been marketed to the consumer in Singapore, consumer surveys would be a more direct way of demonstrating whether the Singapore consumer would be misled by the Application GI. However, such surveys are not determinative and parties must also provide evidence of how such surveys had been conducted: at [68]–[69].Introduction1 This was an appeal against the decision of the General Division of the High Court in Australian Grape and Wine Inc v Consorzio di Tutela della Denominazione di Origine Controllata Prosecco [2022] SGHC 33.Background and the decision below2 The Appellant in this case is the Consorzio di Tutela della Denominazione di Origine Controllata Prosecco (the “Consorzio”). The Consorzio is a trade body established and organised under the laws of Italy. It is responsible in Italy for protecting, promoting, marketing and generally overseeing the use of the term “Prosecco”.3 The Respondent is Australian Grape and Wine Incorporated (“AGWI”). It is the representative body for grape growers and winemakers in Australia.4 On 3 May 2019, the Consorzio applied to register “Prosecco” as a GI in respect of wines in Singapore (the “Application GI”). The claimed geographical area for the production of “Prosecco” wines was the “North East region of Italy”, and included the entire territory of Belluno, Gorizia, Padova, Pordenone, Treviso, Trieste, Udine, Venice and Vicenza (the “Specified Region”). The Application GI was accepted and published in the Geographical Indications Journal under Geographical Indication No 50201900088S on 21 June 2019.5 On 9 September 2019, AGWI filed a notice of opposition against the registration of the Application GI. It relied on two grounds of opposition. First, under s 41(1)(f) of the GIA, that the Application GI contained the name of a plant variety and was likely to mislead the consumer as to the true origin of the product. Secondly, under s 41(1)(a) of the GIA, that the Application GI did not fall within the meaning of a “geographical indication” as defined in s 2(1) of the GIA.6 AGWI’s opposition was dismissed by the Principal Assistant Registrar of Geographical Indications (“PAR”) who ruled that neither ground of opposition had been made out. In her decision, the PAR noted the length of time that Italian “Prosecco” wine had been sold in Singapore (since 2010) and the amount sold over eight years (387,100 litres in 2018 alone) and considered that the likelihood of consumers being misled was small in view of the popularity, reputation and renown of these wines. Australian “Prosecco” wine, on the other hand, had only been introduced into the Singapore market in 2015 and the quantity of such wine sold here was significantly lower (9,657 litres in 2018).7 Dissatisfied with the result, AGWI appealed against the PAR’s decision. The appeal was heard by a judge in the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”). The Judge ruled that AGWI’s opposition under s 41(1)(f) of the GIA succeeded but dismissed AGWI’s opposition under s 41(1)(a) of the GIA: Australian Grape and Wine Inc v Consorzio di Tutela della Denominazione di Origine Controllata Prosecco [2022] SGHC 33 (the “GD”).8 The Judge ruled, in relation to AGWI’s ground of opposition under s 41(1)(f) of the GIA, that the Application GI did, objectively, contain the name of a plant variety, to wit the Prosecco grape. It thus followed that the Application GI would be likely to mislead the consumer if “Prosecco” grapes and “Prosecco” wines had been cultivated or produced in significant quantities outside the Specified Region. Given the evidence that “Prosecco” wines were being produced in commercial quantities in countries such as Australia, the Judge concluded that the Application GI was likely to mislead the consumer in Singapore and thus allowed AGWI’s opposition under s 41(1)(f) of the GIA.9 As to AGWI’s second ground of opposition under s 41(1)(a), the Judge ruled that s 2(1) of the GIA simply required that a GI be any indication used in trade to identify goods as originating from a place. The Judge concluded from the evidence that “Prosecco” was an indication used in trade to identify wine originating from the Specified Region. The crucial question was whether there was a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of the goods (ie, Prosecco wine) which was essentially attributable to the Specified Region. In making the Application GI, the Consorzio had adduced evidence to establish that the relevant characteristics of “Prosecco” wine were essentially attributable to the Specified Region. AGWI disputed the adequacy of the Consorzio’s evidence. But AWGI was unable to adduce expert factual evidence to prove its assertion that the specified characteristics of the wine, Prosecco, did not attach to the entirety of the Specified Region or its assertion that the “Prosecco” wine could be made outside the Specified Region. Therefore, it failed in its opposition on this ground.10 The Consorzio appealed against the Judge’s decision in relation to the ground of opposition under s 41(1)(f) of the GIA. There was no cross-appeal by AGWI against the Judge’s decision to dismiss its ground of opposition under s 41(1)(a) of the GIA.The Court’s decision11  First, in order for s 41(1)(f) of the GIA to apply, it must first be shown that the name of the GI sought to be registered indeed contains the name of a plant variety or an animal breed. This is to be established on an objective basis, and it is sufficient to show that the name in question is indeed recognised as the name of a plant variety or an animal breed by a not insignificant population of people. Evidence of this could come from sources such as reputable scientific journals, or legal registers of plant varieties, or from the general usage of the term as denoting a plant variety or an animal breed among a body of consumers or producers: at [30], [51].12 In applying s 41(1)(f) of the GIA, the key inquiry is whether the Singapore consumer is likely to be misled, by the GI sought to be registered, as to the true geographical origin of the goods. Three factors should be taken into account in considering whether a GI is likely to mislead the Singapore consumer. First, whether the average consumer here is even aware that the name in question is indeed the name of a plant variety. Second, whether the Singapore consumer is aware that the plant variety or animal breed in question is involved in the production of the product over which GI protection is sought. Third, whether the GI sought to be registered is identical with the name of the plant variety or animal breed: at [55]–[59].13 The party opposing the registration of the Application GI bears the legal burden of proof of establishing that the ground of opposition under s 41(1)(f) of the GIA has been made out: at [62] – [63].14 In this case, that party was AGWI. It thus had to demonstrate that s 41(1)(f) of the GIA applied because the Application GI contained the name of a plant variety, and that the Singapore consumer was likely to be misled by the Application GI. While AGWI was able to demonstrate that the Application GI contained the name of a plant variety, it was unable to show that the Singapore consumer was likely to be misled by the Application GI. The evidence adduced by AGWI, which was limited to marketing materials and statistics showing the increase in import volumes of Australian “Prosecco”in Singapore, did not establish that the Singapore consumer was likely to be misled by the Application GI at the time the application was made: at [67] – [74].Conclusion15 The appeal was allowed, and the order of the Judge was set aside. The result was that the Application GI was allowed to proceed to registration. The costs of the appeal together with the costs of the hearing before the Judge and PAR were fixed at $120,000 inclusive of disbursements: at [95]–[96].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
