
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE[24 June 2022]Case summaryNg Hwee Phong v Thum Sow Chan [2022] SGHC 145General Division of the High Court – Suit No 1045 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Andre Maniam):Outcome: The General Division of the High Court dismisses a claim for half of the balance of a joint bank account containing the sale proceeds of a jointly-owned property, that was withdrawn by the defendant. (199 characters, including spaces) Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Absent evidence to the contrary, the sale proceeds of a property held on a joint tenancy continue to be held by the co-owners as joint tenants. Where such sale proceeds are deposited into a joint bank account, the co-owners continue to hold the chose in action for the balance sale proceeds in the account as joint tenants: at [46]. •  The withdrawal of the entire balance of a joint bank account, where such balance represents the sale proceeds of a jointly owned property, severs the joint tenancy over the sale proceeds. This is because the four unities of interest, title, time and possession, which are prerequisites for a joint tenancy to exist, would no longer be present: at [92] and [95]. Material facts of the dispute 1 The plaintiff, Mr Ng, and the defendant, Mdm Thum, entered into a romantic relationship in the 1970s which soured in late 2019. Mr Ng had a wife and children when his relationship with Mdm Thum began, and he never married Mdm Thum. Mr Ng and Mdm Thum operated a business together (“Seacon”). Mdm Thum had worked for Seacon without remuneration; she also channelled profits from trades on her own account to Seacon, and contributed to Seacon from her own savings. The parties purchased a property at Sennett Lane (the “Property”) as joint tenants for $160,000 using money from Seacon’s bank account. Mdm Thum also procured loans from several members of her family for Seacon’s business, although it is unclear if those loans were procured before or after the Property had been fully paid up.2 In or around 2011, Mr Ng and Mdm Thum sold the Property. The sale proceeds of $3,738,796.99 were deposited on 9 January 2012 into an account with United Overseas Bank (“UOB”) that was in the parties’ joint names. Prior to the sale proceeds being deposited, there was a balance of $5,325.15 in the UOB account. Various payments were made out of the UOB account, including $1m to Mdm Thum, $300,000 to three of Mr Ng’s four children, and $38,000 to repay Mdm Thum’s nephew for a loan he had extended. 3 On 11 January 2012, two $1m cheques were drawn on the UOB account and placed as two $1m time deposits with the Bank of China (“BOC”). The BOC account was opened in the joint names of the parties. Subsequently, Mdm Thum bought another property in 2014 and Mr Ng lived there with her for a few years, before eventually moving to live in a nursing home. By March 2022, the balance in the BOC account had been reduced to $1,532,140.94. Mdm Thum withdrew $762,000 from the account, which was about half of the balance, and left the remainder half for Mr Ng. Thereafter, Mr Ng withdrew the balance in both the BOC account and the UOB account and closed them. 4 Mr Ng commenced an action against Mdm Thum for the $762,000 which she withdrew, arguing that (1) Mdm Thum had undertaken that she was a joint account holder of the BOC account in name only, that the money in the account belonged solely to Mr Ng, and that she was not to draw out any money from the account; and (2) the sum was held by Mdm Thum on a resulting trust, constructive trust or bare trust for him. In response, Mdm Thum argued that she was beneficially entitled to the $762,000 that she withdrew, as she had contributed financially to the purchase of the Property. Moreover, she argued that the Property, the money in the UOB account, and the money in the BOC account were all held on a beneficial joint tenancy. The court’s decisionThe parties’ interest in the Property 5 It was found that Mdm Thum had contributed financially to the purchase of the Property, as the Property was purchased using funds from Seacon’s business to which Mdm Thum had contributed. In particular, Mdm Thum had worked for Seacon without remuneration and had also used profits from her own trades and her own savings for Seacon’s business: at [20]–[22]. 6 Applying the framework set out in Chan Yuen Lan v See Fong Mun [2014] 3 SLR 1048, the parties were presumed to hold the Property as legal and beneficial joint tenants, as (1) there was insufficient evidence of each party’s respective financial contributions to the purchase price of the Property; and (2) there was also insufficient evidence of an express or inferred common intention that the parties should hold the beneficial interest in the Property in a proportion different from their legal interest: at [41]--–[42]. The parties’ interest in the balance in the UOB account and BOC account 7 Absent evidence to the contrary, the sale proceeds of a property held on a joint tenancy would continue to be held by the co-owners as joint tenants. Where such sale proceeds are deposited into a joint bank account, the co-owners hold the chose in action for the balance sale proceeds in the account as joint tenants. In this case, the sale proceeds of the Property were deposited into the UOB account (that was in the joint names of Mr Ng and Mdm Thum). The court held that the balance in the UOB account was also held by Mr Ng and Mdm Thum as beneficial joint tenants as their conduct was consistent with this. In particular, Mr Ng had not taken any steps to remove Mdm Thum as a joint account holder of the UOB account, despite stating that he was fearful of having assets in joint names with Mdm Thum as problems would arise if the relationship soured: at [46] and [51]. 8 It was also found that the money in the BOC account, which was drawn from the UOB account, was held by Mr Ng and Mdm Thum as joint tenants. The court rejected Mr Ng’s allegation that Mdm Thum was only added as a joint account holder of the BOC account after giving some undertaking to the effect that he was beneficially entitled to the entire balance in the BOC account: at [63], [64] and [66]. 9 The balance of $5,325.15 in the UOB account prior to the sale proceeds being received on 9 January 2012 was found to have been withdrawn and expended before March 2020. Hence, by March 2020, what remained in the UOB and BOC accounts was the balance of the sale proceeds of the Property (including interest thereon): at [87]-–[88].Severance of the joint tenancy over the sale proceeds of the Property 10 In a Canadian case with similar facts, the British Columbia Supreme Court and Court of Appeal held that where the entire balance of a joint account is drawn down to zero, any joint tenancy over sale proceeds formerly in the joint account is necessarily severed – the four unities of interest, title, time and possession, which are pre-requisites for a joint tenancy to exist, would no longer be present: at [92]. 11 When Mdm Thum withdrew $762,000 from the BOC account (which was about half of the balance then in the account), and Mr Ng withdrew the remaining balance in the BOC and UOB accounts and closed them, there ceased to be any chose of action that was held jointly by both parties, and the four unities no longer existed. Accordingly, the joint tenancy over the sale proceeds of the Property (which had been deposited into the joint bank accounts) was severed: at [93].12 Moreover, when Mdm Thum and Mr Ng each withdrew the amounts that they did, they both did so with the intention that the money withdrawn was not to be shared with the other. Mr Ng’s and Mdm Thum’s withdrawal of the entire balance of the sale proceeds of the Property amounted to operating on their own respective interests in the sale proceeds, which is a recognised mode of severing a joint tenancy in equity: at [94]–[95]. 13 Absent any other intention of the parties, severance of a joint tenancy resulted in a tenancy in common in equal parts between Mr Ng and Mdm Thum. Accordingly, Mdm Thum was entitled to a half-share of the balance sale proceeds, and what she withdrew from the BOC account on 9 March 2000 was slightly less than a half-share of the balance sale proceeds. Mr Ng’s claim was therefore dismissed: at [96]–[97]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
