
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE8 November 2023Case summaryRashmi Bothra v SuntecCity Thirty Pte Ltd and others [2023] SGCA 38Court of Appeal — Civil Appeal No 6 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Kannan Ramesh JAD):Outcome: The court allows the appeal and sets aside the appointment of liquidators nominated by the private trustees of the estate of a bankrupt. The private trustees had no locus standi to nominate liquidators in an application to wind up the company, as the bankrupt was neither a contributory nor creditor of the company. The court instead appoints a liquidator jointly nominated by the registered shareholders of the company.   Introduction and background1 The present appeal in CA/CA 6/2023 (“CA 6”) concerned two applications, HC/CWU 234/2022 (“CWU 234”) and HC/CWU 244/2022 (“CWU 244”), brought to wind up the first respondent, SuntecCity Thirty Pte Ltd (the “Company”), under the just and equitable ground stated in s 125(1)(i) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 (2020 Rev Ed) (the “IRDA”). The applicants in CWU 234 and CWU 244 were Rashmi Bothra (“Rashmi”) and Nimisha Pandey (“Nimisha”) respectively. Nimisha was not a party to CA 6, which was Rashmi’s appeal against the Judge’s decision in CWU 234. 2 The Company was a special purpose vehicle incorporated for the sole purpose of purchasing and holding Rashmi and Nimisha’s investment in several office units (collectively, the “Property”). Rashmi and Nimisha were the registered shareholders of the Company at all material times, each with 50% shareholding. 3 The Property was subsequently sold by the Company for $38.75 million. The net sale proceeds were transferred to Rashmi’s solicitors to be held in escrow pending resolution of Rashmi and Nimisha’s dispute over the distribution of the sale proceeds. In the event, Rashmi and Nimisha could not agree.4 In view of the impasse, Rashmi filed CWU 234. Nimisha filed CWU 244 shortly thereafter. While Rashmi and Nimisha agreed that the Company was solvent, they alleged that with the sale of the Property, the Company’s substratum had been fulfilled and it no longer had a business purpose. It should therefore be wound up on the just and equitable ground.5 The Judge dismissed CWU 244 and made a winding up order against the Company as regards CWU 234. However, he did not accept Rashmi’s nominees for appointment as liquidators, instead preferring and appointing the nominees of the second and third respondents, Jason Aleksander Kardachi and Patrick Bance (“Bance”). The second and third respondents were the joint and several private trustees (the “PTs”) of the estate of Rajesh Bothra (“Rajesh”), Rashmi’s husband, who had been adjudged a bankrupt. The PTs were not parties to CWU 234 and CWU 244. The PTs opposed CWU 234 and the appointment of Rashmi’s nominees as liquidators. Nimisha opposed CWU 234 as well.6 An issue that arose in CWU 234 was whether the shares registered in Rashmi’s name (“Rashmi’s Shares”) were beneficially hers. The PTs alleged that the shares were beneficially owned by Rajesh on the basis that Rajesh had funded 50% of the purchase price for the Property through Fareast Distribution and Logistics Pte Ltd (“Fareast”). Rajesh incorporated Fareast and was its sole director and shareholder. On the other hand, Rashmi asserted that she and Rajesh shared a common intention that Rashmi’s Shares would be hers. Rashmi relied on four declarations of trusts which were allegedly executed by Rajesh and Ooi Ai Ling, Rajesh’s personal assistant, in favour of Rashmi (the “Declarations of Trusts”). Nimisha and the PTs alleged that the Declarations of Trusts were backdated. 7 The PTs’ claim to the beneficial ownership of Rashmi’s Shares was key to their challenge against the appointment of Rashmi’s nominees. The PTs submitted that the liquidators had to determine the beneficial ownership of Rashmi’s Shares, as they had to distribute the net sale proceeds of the Property to the beneficial owner of those shares. As Rashmi also claimed beneficial ownership of Rashmi’s Shares, her nominees were unsuitable for appointment. The Judge accepted the PTs’ argument. Issue in the present appeal8 The sole issue in CA 6 was whether the Judge was correct in appointing the PTs’ nominees as liquidators and rejecting Rashmi’s nominees. This raised the following sub-issues:(a) Did the PTs have locus standi to nominate liquidators?(b) Was the Judge correct in rejecting Rashmi’s nominees? Whether the PTs had locus standi to nominate liquidators 9 The Judge erred in appointing the PTs’ nominees as liquidators because the PTs did not have standing to nominate liquidators in CWU 234: at [13]. 10 A party who had standing to bring a winding up application under s 125 of the IRDA had the concomitant right to make a nomination. The persons or entitles who had standing to bring the application were listed in s 124(1) of the IRDA. One category that was listed was a “contributory”: at [15], [16], [17] and [18]. Rajesh was not a contributory under the IRDA 11 Rajesh was not a contributory even if it was assumed that he was the beneficial owner of Rashmi’s Shares: at [19].  12 Contributory” as defined in the IRDA referred to “every present and past member”. The “members” of the Company were Rashmi and Nimisha: at [20] and [21]. 13 As a contributory, Rashmi had the standing to bring an application to wind up the Company and to nominate liquidators. However, Rajesh was not a member and therefore not a contributory of the Company. Accordingly, the PTs as representatives of his estate in bankruptcy could not do more than he could and were not entitled to make a nomination: at [23]. 14 The PTs’ submission that Rajesh was a contributory in his own right by reason of being the beneficial owner of Rashmi’s Shares was not accepted. The submission disregarded the definition of “contributory” in s 2(1) of the IRDA. To qualify as a contributory the person or entity must be a “member”, which Rajesh was not: at [24], [25] and [26].  15 The reference in s 152(4) to “persons who are contributories by reason of being representatives of others” could only apply to Rashmi’s representatives in the applicable situation as she was the member of the Company: at [27] and [29]. Rajesh was not a creditor of the Company 16 The PTs’ argument that Rajesh was a creditor by reason of shareholder loans he allegedly made and therefore qualified under s 124(1)(c) of the IRDA was not accepted.  Nothing on the record supported the allegation that Rajesh made shareholder loans of over $5m as alleged to the Company. The issue of the shareholder loans was only raised after the Judge had delivered his decision on 19 January 2023: at [31], [32] and [33]. Whether the Judge was correct in rejecting Rashmi’s nominees17 The Judge was incorrect in rejecting Rashmi’s nominees: at [35] and [36]. 18 The Judge’s rejection of Rashmi’s nominees on the basis that the liquidators would have to investigate the issue of beneficial ownership would apply equally to the PTs’ nominees. On that issue, Rashmi and the PTs were counterparties. This made both their nominees unsuitable, assuming that it was relevant in the first place for the liquidators to examine the issue of the beneficial ownership of Rashmi’s Shares. The relevant question was whether the PTs had an interest in the outcome of the determination of the issue, which they did as one of the parties asserting beneficial ownership over Rashmi’s Shares: at [37]. The liquidators did not have to determine the beneficial ownership of Rashmi’s Shares19 It was not the liquidator’s duty to investigate the true ownership of the shares on the register of members. The liquidator’s statutory duty was to settle the list of members, present and past, who were liable to contribute to the assets of the company. Therefore, whether Rashmi’s Shares were beneficially hers or Rajesh’s was not an issue that the liquidators had to determine. Instead, it was an issue between the PTs and Rashmi and should have been appropriately resolved in separate proceedings between them: at [38] and [39]. The liquidators did not have to investigate the backdating of the Declarations of Trusts 20 As the liquidators did not have a duty to investigate the beneficial ownership of Rashmi’s Shares, the liquidators similarly did not have a duty to investigate the alleged backdating of the Declarations of Trusts. The evidence detailed by the PTs which suggested that Rashmi’s Shares were not beneficially owned by her was not relevant: at [41]. Conclusion 21 The appeal was allowed. A new liquidator that was jointly nominated by Rashmi and Nimisha was appointed in place of the liquidators appointed by the Judge: at [57]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
