
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 June 2022 Case summaryRe Tantleff, Alan [2022] SGHC 147General Division of the High Court – Originating Summons No 203 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Aedit Abdullah):Outcome: HC allows application for recognition of Chapter 11 proceedings, Chapter 11 plan and confirmation order under UNCITRAL Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency in relation to some Singapore entities.(195 characters, including spaces)Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Eagle Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust (“EH-REIT”), which is a collective investment scheme authorised under the Securities and Futures Act (Cap 289, 2006 Rev Ed) (“SFA”), does not come within the scope of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency (30 May 1997) (the “Model Law”) as implemented in Singapore. Parliament sought to exclude entities under the SFA from the Model Law: at [25] and [27].•  Relief may be granted under Art 21(g) of the Model Law for the recognition and enforcement of foreign insolvency judgments. The Ministry of Law indicated that the scope of relief that may be granted under Art 21(1)(g) should follow the position taken in the United States (the “US”) where this was permitted: at [77] and [78]. Background to the application1 This application concerns three entities consisting of EH-REIT, Eagle Hospitality Trust S1 Pte Ltd (“S1”) and Eagle Hospitality Trust S2 Pte Ltd (“S2”) (collectively, the “Singapore Chapter 11 Entities”). EH-REIT was a publicly held real estate investment trust in Singapore. Both S1 and S2 were Singapore-incorporated companies that were wholly owned by EH-REIT. Through directly and indirectly wholly-owned companies, the Eagle Hospitality Group (consisting of EH-REIT and other subsidiaries) owned a portfolio comprising of 18 full-service hotel properties (collectively, the “Hotels”), all of which were located in the US. The Eagle Hospitality Group faced financial difficulties over the course of 2020 and eventually filed for Chapter 11 reorganisation in 2021.2 The Applicant, as foreign representative, sought recognition of the foreign proceedings and court orders pursuant to the Model Law. The foreign proceedings concerned the cases under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code 11 USC (US) (1978) (the “US Bankruptcy Code”) in the US Bankruptcy Court (the “Singapore Entities’ Chapter 11 Proceedings”). Further, recognition was sought for the Chapter 11 plan of liquidation in the US (the “Chapter 11 Plan”) and the US Bankruptcy Court’s confirmation of the Chapter 11 Plan (the “Confirmation Order”).3 The Applicant also sought the following additional reliefs: (a) the Applicant to be recognised as the foreign representative of the Singapore Chapter 11 Entities, (b) the Applicant to be entrusted with the administration and realisation of property and assets of the Singapore Chapter 11 Entities and to implement the Chapter 11 Plan, (c) DBS Trustee Limited, in its capacity as trustee of EH-REIT (the “EH-REIT Trustee”), to be authorised to take all appropriate steps to wind down the Singapore Chapter 11 Entities in accordance with Singapore law and perform obligations under the Chapter 11 Plan.The court’s decision 4 The court granted recognition for the Singapore Entities’ Chapter 11 Proceedings, the Chapter 11 Plan and the Confirmation Order under the Model Law. However, these were only in respect of S1 and S2. Regarding EH-REIT, a separate application would have to be made for common law recognition and would have to involve the EH-REIT Trustee (ie, DBS Trustee Limited), who was not present in this application: at [31], [94] and [95]. Recognition of the Singapore Entities’ Chapter 11 ProceedingsWhether proceedings or orders concerning the restructuring of a real estate investment trust can be recognised under the IRDA and the Model Law5 The court found that the EH-REIT did not come within the scope of the Model Law as implemented in Singapore. Part 11 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 (2020 Rev Ed) (“IRDA”) implements the Model Law, but Part 11 was within that segment of the IRDA (Parts 4 to 12) that deals with corporate entities. EH-REIT was not a corporate entity, but was instead, a collective investment scheme authorised under the SFA. There was nothing in the IRDA or its language that would extend its application to EH-REIT: at [25] and [26]. 6 The types of entities excluded from the scope of the Model Law, by the Minister’s orders under s 252(1) of the IRDA, suggested that the Model Law only applied to corporate entities and that in a similar vein, non-corporate entities governed by the SFA (such as EH-REIT) do not fall within the Model Law. Further, entities which were authorised under the SFA were excluded from the scope of the Model Law, and it was logical to infer that EH-REIT itself would not come within it as well: at [27]. 7 Nothing in the UNCITRAL guides suggests that the Model Law was intended to apply to EH-REIT. The restructuring of EH-REIT will probably have to proceed under common law recognition. The analysis for recognition under the Model Law was only proceeded with for S1 and S2: at [30], [31] and [32].  Whether the Singapore Entities’ Chapter 11 Proceedings should be recognised as foreign main proceeding even though the presumptive COMI is in Singapore8 Chapter 11 Proceedings under the US Bankruptcy Code were clearly “foreign proceeding[s]” within the meaning of Art 2(h) of the Model Law, as noted in previous cases. Rather, the key issue was whether the Singapore Entities’ Chapter 11 Proceedings should be recognised as foreign main proceedings or foreign non-main proceedings: at [33] and [34].9 The starting point was that the COMI of S1 and S2 was presumed to be Singapore pursuant to Art 16(3) of the Model Law as they were both incorporated in and have registered offices in Singapore. However, this presumption may be displaced by other factors on the presence of proof to the contrary: at [36] and [37].10 Both S1 and S2 were not active, operational companies. Rather, they were part of the Eagle Hospitality Group, which has its main business operations and assets based in the US. The substantial assets consisting of the portfolio of 18 full-service Hotels were all located in the US where the income would be derived as well. Further, the significant creditors of S1 and S2 were based in the US, and the governing law of the various agreements with the creditors was US law. In the circumstances, the presumption under Art 16(3) of the Model Law has been displaced and the COMI for both S1 and S2 was the US: at [39] to [43].11 The fact that the Singapore Entities’ Chapter 11 Proceedings were ongoing in the US was irrelevant in determining the COMI, as were the activities of the foreign representative. The work being done by the foreign representee would flow from the assumption of jurisdiction by the foreign court: at [45] and [50].Recognition of the Chapter 11 Plan and Confirmation OrderBasis of recognition12 While the court was previously amenable to taking an expanded view of Art 2(h) of the Model Law, the court opined that the better course was to grant recognition of the Chapter 11 Plan and Confirmation Order under Art 21(1)(g) of the Model Law instead. Nevertheless, some views in passing regarding Art 2(h) of the Model Law were set out and the issue was left open for future determination: at [56].13 While the Model Law does not explicitly provide for the recognition and enforcement of foreign insolvency orders and judgments, the list of reliefs in Art 21 of the Model law was non-exhaustive in nature and the court was not restricted unnecessarily in its ability to grant any type of relief that was required in the circumstances of the case: at [68].14 Within the US cases, it was well-established in Chapter 15 jurisprudence that foreign insolvency orders and judgments may be recognised and enforced locally. The US equivalent of Art 21 of the Model Law has been interpreted to extend to the recognition and enforcement of foreign insolvency-related orders and judgments confirming foreign reorganisation plans. In contrast, the position in the United Kingdom (the “UK”) was much more circumscribed with regard to interpreting the UK equivalent of Art 21 of the Model Law, and the recognition and enforcement of foreign insolvency judgments was not permitted: at [70], [71] and [75].15 The US approach should be preferred over the UK approach. The Ministry of Law has expressed its preference for the US approach and has intentionally amended the language of Art 21(1)(g) to align the Singapore position with that of the US. Thus, the US jurisprudence should be persuasive in determining the scope of relief to be granted: at [77] and [78].16 In granting recognition and enforcement of foreign insolvency judgments and orders, the Singapore court was not merely acting as a rubber stamp. The Singapore court must carefully scrutinise the circumstances in which the foreign order was granted and ensure that interested parties were adequately protected. There was adequate protection for the relevant parties in the present circumstances as the Chapter 11 process was supervised by the US Bankruptcy Court, the requisite voting requirements for the confirmation of the Chapter 11 Plan were properly satisfied, and there was opportunity provided for creditors to be heard. The Singapore creditors were also duly notified about the developments in the Chapter 11 process. All creditors were notified of the present recognition proceedings: at [81] to [83].Relief in respect of the EH-REIT Trustee and common law recognition17 The Applicant did not have the standing to make an application on behalf of DBS Trustee Limited. Instead, DBS Trustee Limited should satisfy the Singapore court that the winding down and other steps contemplated were in accordance with Singapore law and the trust deed. The court could not see how any matters affecting the winding down of EH-REIT could be brought in this summons. A separate application should be made in respect of EH-REIT: at [87], [88] and [95].Other reliefs sought18 The additional relief sought by the Applicant (except that concerning DBS Trustee Limited) was granted as these were uncontroversial, save that these are limited to S1 and S2 only: at [91].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
