
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 June 2022Case summaryThe Subsidiary Management Corporation No. 01 – Strata Title Plan No. 4355 v Janaed and another and another appeal [2022] SGHC(A) [26]Appellate Division of the High Court – Civil Appeals Nos 98 of 2021 and 99 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Chua Lee Ming):Outcome: Appellate Division dismisses appeals against decision that MCST and a sub-contractor were 70% liable for injury suffered by a worker on MCST’s premises, that another sub-contractor was not liable and that the worker was liable for 30% contributory negligence.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  As an “occupier” of the premises under the Workplace Safety and Health Act (Cap 354A, 2009 Rev Ed) (“WSHA”), MCST had primary responsibility for work safety on the premises. Its duties under the WSHA and the Workplace Safety and Health (Work at Heights) Regulations 2013 (the “WH Regulations”) gave rise to a duty of care under common law: at [47] to [49]. •  MCST cannot avoid liability by sheltering behind its contractor: at [53].•  Legal practitioners should not assume that a subsidiary management corporation will necessarily be liable for the negligent conduct of its managing agent or that legal practitioners may always act on the instructions of the managing agent alone when the legal practitioners purport to act for the subsidiary management corporation: at [55] to [57].•  The worker had a duty to exercise reasonable prudence in any event. Because he failed to do so, he was found to have contributed to his injury and his claim for damages was reduced accordingly: at [80], [85] and [89].Background and material facts1 The appeals arose from the decision of the High Court Judge (the “Judge”) in HC/S 1127/2019 (“Suit 1127”). The plaintiff in Suit 1127, Mr Janaed (“Janaed”), was injured after falling 3.7 metres from the top of a chiller (“Chiller 1”) in the mechanical and electrical room (“M&E Room”) at Westgate Tower, Singapore.2 In Suit 1127, Janaed sued Newtec Engineering Pte Ltd (“Newtec”), Felizardo Paras Jose (“Ding”) t/a STA Rita Engineering Services (“STA”), Zoe International Pte Ltd (“Zoe”) and The Subsidiary Management Corporation No. 01 – Strata Title Plan No. 4355 (“MCST”). MCST had engaged Zoe to replace two flow switches (the “Works”) at another chiller (“Chiller 2”) in the M&E Room. Zoe subcontracted the Works to STA. Newtec, who was Janaed’s employer, supplied labour (including Janaed) to STA for the Works. Janaed’s case was that his accident was caused by negligence on the part of Newtec and/or STA and/or Zoe and/or MCST.3 Zoe was represented by its Project Manager, Mr Eugene Julian (“Eugene”), in its communications with MCST and STA. On 7 November 2018, MCST confirmed its engagement of Zoe for the Works. That same day, Eugene called Ding and informed Ding to liaise with MCST’s Property Executive, Mr Beringuel, Monti Carlo Catarinen (“Monti”) for the Works to be carried out. Ding arranged with Monti for a site survey to be carried out on 8 November 2018.4 On the morning of 8 November 2018, Monti, Ding, Janaed and MCST’s technician, Mr Faizal (“Faizal”) visited the M&E Room for the site survey. The site survey was to, among other things, assess the location of the flow switches at Chiller 2. After the inspection, Monti, Faizal and Ding left the M&E Room; Janaed stayed behind alone in the M&E Room.5 Ding spoke to Monti later that afternoon. Monti told Ding that he could replace the flow switches at Chiller 2 with the same model as the existing switches or alternatively, he could use the model of the switches installed at Chiller 1. Ding then called Janaed and asked him to check the model of the flow switches at Chiller 1.6 Janaed used a fireman’s ladder to climb to the top of Chiller 1. He stood on the top of Chiller 1 and used his mobile phone to take photos of one of the switches. He held his mobile phone in one hand and used his other hand to zoom in for a close-up of the flow switch. There were no guard-rails at the top of the chiller and Janaed did not use any safety harness or belt. Janaed fell from the top of Chiller 1 and landed on the floor. As a result of the fall, Janaed suffered injuries and was paralysed.7 Newtec did not participate in the trial. However, the Judge did not grant interlocutory judgment against Newtec on the ground that Newtec had not entered appearance and it was open to Janaed to enter default judgment against Newtec. The Judge found STA and MCST jointly and severally liable to Janaed for negligence, found Janaed 30% contributorily negligent, and found Zoe not liable for negligence. MCST appealed, arguing it was not liable to Janaed; alternatively, that Zoe caused and/or contributed to the accident, and that Janaed was 50% contributorily negligent. Janaed also appealed, arguing that he was not contributorily negligent and, alternatively, that his contributory negligence did not exceed 10%.The court’s decision8 After the Judge had delivered judgment for the trial, Janaed then entered interlocutory judgment in default of appearance pursuant to O 13 of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed) (the “Rules”). Under the default judgment, Newtec’s liability was not reduced by any contributory negligence on the part of Janaed. It was not clear why the Judge did not in any event grant Janaed judgment against Newtec after the trial. Since Janaed’s action was proceeding against the other defendants in any event, the Judge could and should have entered interlocutory judgment against Newtec after trial, if he found Newtec to be liable, so as to avoid any argument as to whether the Judge’s finding that Janaed was 30% contributorily negligent would also apply to Newtec. However, this was not an issue before the court: at [14].MCST’s liability9 MCST’s reliance on Gursahib Singh v Aquatemp Pte Ltd and others [2020] SGDC 127 was misplaced. The static-dynamic dichotomy between the condition of the property (static) and the operations carried out on the property (dynamic) was the result of traditional common law rules, which drew a distinction between the law on occupiers’ liability (which pertained to the static condition of the property) and the general law of negligence (which pertained to dynamic activities done on property and did not apply to an occupier’s liability as occupier). The Court of Appeal in See Toh Siew Kee v Ho Ah Lam Ferrocement (Pte) Ltd and others [2013] 3 SLR 284 had authoritatively decided that the law in Singapore on occupiers’ liability should be subsumed under, and dealt with within, the framework of the tort of negligence. In this case, the general principles of the law of negligence, specifically, the test in Spandeck Engineering (S) Pte Ltd v Defence Science & Technology Agency [2007] 4 SLR(R) 100, must be applied: at [17], [22] to [25].10 The threshold requirement of factual foreseeability was satisfied. It was clearly foreseeable that there was a risk of falling when standing on the top of the chiller to access or work on the flow switches, if preventive steps were not taken: at [26].11 There was sufficient legal proximity between MCST and Janaed giving rise to a prima facie duty of care. First, MCST had control over access to the M&E Room and whether works were permitted in the M&E Room, and Janaed was a lawful entrant: at [28], [30].12 Second, MCST owed certain duties to Janaed under the Workplace Safety and Health Act (Cap 354A, 2009 Rev Ed) (“WSHA”) and the Workplace Safety and Health (Work at Heights) Regulations 2013 (the “WH Regulations”). Although the mere existence of a statutory duty was not in itself conclusive of a common law duty of care, it remained a relevant factor in deciding whether there was sufficient legal proximity which gave rise to a prima facie duty of care at common law. The categories of persons falling under Pt IV of the WSHA had primary and heavy responsibility for safety at worksites and their duties under Pt IV of the WSHA were a strong factor in determining whether a duty of care at common law existed. It was unarguable that MCST fell within s 4(c) of the WSHA as an “occupier” of the M&E Room: at [31] to [32], [41] to [43].13 It was clear that MCST, as an “occupier”, owed duties under s 11 of the WSHA relating to a safe workplace, and under reg 8 of the WH Regulations relating to safety when a worker was liable to fall more than two metres. Janaed was within the class of persons intended to be protected by the statutory duties imposed on MCST under the WSHA and WH Regulations. MCST’s argument that it was akin to homeowners who had engaged contractors to repair their air-conditioning system was erroneous as an occupier of domestic premises (provided the premises were not used to conduct any business or undertaking of the occupier) was exempted from the WSHA: at [47] to [48].14 There were no policy considerations that negated the prima facie duty. The court agreed with the Judge that MCST owed Janaed a duty of care: at [49].15 There was no reason why MCST’s duties under the WSHA and WH Regulations, and the Code of Practice for Working Safely at Heights published by the Workplace Safety and Health Council in collaboration with the Ministry of Manpower (Second Revision, 2013) (the “Code”), should not apply in pitching the standard of care that MCST had to meet: at [51].16 The court agreed with the Judge that MCST had breached its duty of care. MCST did not do any of the things that it should have done to discharge its duties under the WSHA and the WH Regulations. MCST submitted that the costs of installing guard-rails or barriers were excessive and/or disproportionate, and that they were impracticable and not part of industry practice, but there was no evidence of industry practice adduced in support of these submissions. In any event, MCST could have provided a mobile elevated work platform (one of the fall prevention systems provided under the Code), which it had since acquired. Further, MCST itself submitted there were alternatives, ie, proper safety equipment and/or a safety harness, but it did nothing to provide or ensure that Zoe/STA provided any such equipment either: at [52], [54].17 The court rejected MCST’s argument that it did not breach its duty of care because it could reasonably rely on Zoe as its independent contractor to provide a safe system of work, the requisite equipment and/or supervision. As an occupier under the WSHA, MCST had primary responsibility for safety in the M&E Room and could not avoid liability by sheltering behind its contractor, Zoe: at [53].18 As an aside, MCST had engaged a managing agent to manage the development. MCST’s counsel informed the court that while Monti was described as MCST’s Property Executive or Quality Executive in these proceedings, he was in fact employed by the managing agent. MCST’s counsel further informed the court that he was instructed that MCST was prepared to consider Monti as one of its staff. The court cautioned legal practitioners that they had to describe the legal position accurately. It was not for MCST’s counsel to truncate the facts and state that Monti was a staff of MCST just because MCST was prepared to consider Monti as one of its staff. The court also cautioned legal practitioners to be careful when they received instructions that a subsidiary management corporation was willing to bear responsibility for the conduct of a staff of its managing agent as there might be a conflict of interest if the instruction was from the managing agent or the same staff whose conduct was in question: at [55] to [57].19 Lastly, the court agreed with the Judge that MCST’s breach of its duty of care was the proximate cause of Janaed’s fall and injuries. It was a reasonable inference that the use of guard-rails or barriers or a travel restraint system would have prevented Janaed’s fall; alternatively, the use of a fall arrest system would have prevented or reduced the severity of Janaed’s injuries. Second, MCST could not blame Janaed for his failure to use proper safety equipment; it was MCST’s duty to comply with the requirements for effective guard-rails or barriers, or the use of a travel restraint system or a fall arrest system in the first place: at [58] to [60].Zoe’s liability20 It was MCST, not Janaed, that was pursuing a claim of negligence against Zoe on appeal. Zoe did not question MCST’s standing to appeal against this finding. In any case, MCST had the necessary standing to appeal because MCST was directly affected by the finding and had a personal interest in seeking its variation. If Zoe were found liable, MCST could have a claim for contribution against Zoe pursuant to s 15 of the Civil Law Act (Cap 43, 1999 Rev Ed): at [61].21 The court had some reservations about the Judge's conclusion that there was no factual foreseeability or legal proximity simply because Zoe did not know of the appointment on 8 November 2018. It seemed to the court that Zoe’s lack of knowledge as to the specific date of the appointment was not relevant to the questions of factual foreseeability and legal proximity, although that knowledge was relevant to the question of breach. In the court’s view, the factual foreseeability threshold was met in this case and it seemed arguable that there was sufficient legal proximity between Zoe and Janaed such as to give rise to a prima facie duty of care. This was based on Zoe’s status as a “principal” under s 4(1) of the WSHA and its corresponding duties under ss 14A(1)(b) and 14A(3) of the WSHA: at [63] to [64].22 Nevertheless, it was unnecessary for the court to decide whether Zoe did owe a duty of care because it had not been proven that Zoe had breached that duty in any event. While MCST had pleaded in its defence that Zoe had breached ss 14A(1)(b) and 14A(3) of the WSHA, Eugene was not cross-examined by MCST’s counsel as to how Zoe was alleged to have breached its duties under these provisions – save for a brief exchange where Eugene testified that Ding had prepared a risk assessment which was subsequently approved by Zoe and submitted to MCST. Eugene’s evidence that work could not be carried out without his knowledge and that Ding had to inform him of any arrangement for a site survey was not challenged, nor was he cross-examined as to the steps that Zoe should have taken under these circumstances but omitted to do so. When cross-examining Eugene, MCST’s counsel also did not suggest that Zoe was partly responsible for the accident. The court thus affirmed the Judge’s dismissal of the claim in negligence against Zoe, albeit for different reasons: at [65] to [69].23 The court rejected MCST’s submission that Zoe should be held vicariously liable for STA’s negligence as this was not part of MCST’s pleaded case below: at [70].Contributory negligence24 Janaed submitted he should not be held contributorily negligent at all as the accident was due to the negligence on the part of MCST and STA in failing to provide the requisite safety equipment. Janaed relied on Zheng Yu Shan v Lian Beng Construction (1988) Pte Ltd [2009] 2 SLR(R) 587. However, the facts in the present case were different. The fact that MCST/STA did not provide Janaed with any safety equipment did not mean that Janaed therefore did not have to exercise reasonable prudence. It was clear that Janaed’s fall and injury was the result partly of his own fault: at [74], [79] to [80].25 Janaed cited two other cases (Chen Qiangshi v Hong Fei CDY Construction Pte Ltd and another [2014] SGHC 177 and Miah Rasel v 5 Ways Engineering Services Pte Ltd [2018] 3 SLR 480) in support of his submission that he had merely followed the instructions of STA and MCST and there should be no contributory negligence on his part. The court disagreed. In checking the model of the switch, it was incumbent on Janaed to exercise reasonable prudence in looking after his own safety: at [85].26 As for the extent of Janaed’s contributory negligence, the court was not persuaded that the Judge’s apportionment of liability between Janaed and MCST/STA was against the weight of the evidence or was plainly wrong. Accordingly, the court affirmed the Judge’s decision that Janaed’s claim for damages should be reduced by 30% for his contributory negligence: at [89].Contribution among joint defendants27 MCST, Zoe, STA and Newtec did not claim any contribution from each other; none of them served any notice of contribution pursuant to O 16 r 8 of the Rules. The issue of contribution between MCST and STA did not arise in MCST’s appeal before the court. Defendants who wished to claim a contribution against each other should take note that they had to file the requisite notices of contribution under the Rules so that the issue could be dealt with by the trial judge: at [90].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
