
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE15 June 2022Case summaryLeow Peng Yam v Kang Jia Dian Aryall [2022] SGHC(A) 25Civil Appeal No. 111 of 2018--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):Outcome: Appellate Division dismisses appeal against decision that woman’s claim in negligence against bus driver was not time-barred due to her severe head injuries.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where the Supreme Court of Judicature (Transfer of Specified Proceedings to District Court) Order 2016 (Cap 322, S 597/2016) applies in respect of a case that was transferred at first instance to the District Court and an appeal against the District Court’s decision to the General Division of the High Court is made, a further appeal to the Appellate Division of the High Court (the “AD”) is possible if leave to appeal is obtained from the AD.•  The court below had applied an objective approach in determining whether a plaintiff had constructive knowledge under s 24A(2)(b) read with ss 24A(4)(b) and 24A(6)(a) of the Limitation Act (Cap 163, 1996 Rev Ed). There was no question of general principle to be decided for the first time. 1 The present appeal arose from a claim by the respondent against the appellant for negligently causing her personal injury. On 14 May 2016, the respondent was severely injured in a collision with a bus driven by the appellant and she suffered serious cognitive difficulties as a result.2 The appellant had accepted that the respondent’s injury was caused by his negligence and the parties agreed that the appellant’s liability was to be fixed at 85% in the respondent’s favour if she succeeds in her claim. The sole issue related to whether the respondent’s action was time-barred. The respondent succeeded in her claim at first instance before a District Judge (the “DJ”) and the appeal to the General Division of the High Court was dismissed. The appellant then sought, ultimately, to bring a further appeal to the Appellate Division of the High Court (the “AD”). The appeal was dismissed.Background to the dispute3 On 14 May 2016, when the respondent was crossing a signalised traffic junction, an SMRT Corporation Ltd bus driven by the appellant collided into with her. She was conveyed to Khoo Teck Puat Hospital (“KTPH”) by ambulance and was found to have, among other injuries, severe head and brain injuries as well as psychological conditions and symptoms.4 On 23 May 2016, the respondent was discharged from KTPH and given hospitalisation leave until 23 August 2016. On the day of her discharge, the respondent filed a police report regarding the accident with the traffic police at a neighbourhood police centre. She claimed that because she had no recollection of the accident at the time, her father helped her with this task and she simply signed the report. Despite her memory loss, she was also able to provide the traffic police with details of the accident location, and time and date, because she had previously been given a “green card” either by a nurse or the traffic police at the hospital. Also, the respondent had asked the traffic police for the bus driver’s name but was told that this information was confidential. It was unclear when this question and response took place.5 The respondent met with lawyers on 11 October 2016 and subsequently discovered the identity of the driver of the bus that had collided into her, ie, the appellant. However, the respondent did not state the date on which she actually discovered the appellant’s identity. She filed the writ of summons against the appellant on 18 June 2019, which was three years, one month and four days after the accident on 14 May 2016.6 From at least February 2017, the respondent was treated by, among other people, Dr Eugene Yang (“Dr Yang”), a Senior Consultant and the Head of the Division of Neurosurgery in the Department of Surgery at KTPH. The respondent adduced Dr Yang’s expert evidence in support of her case.Procedural history and the decisions below7 At first instance, the appellant did not dispute that he was negligent. The sole issue concerned whether the respondent’s claim was time-barred. The appellant submitted that the action was brought out of time under s 24A(2)(a) of the Limitation Act (Cap 163, 1996 Rev Ed) (the “Limitation Act”) because under that provision, the respondent was to bring her action within three years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Therefore, she should have filed her action before 14 May 2019. The respondent relied on s 24A(2)(b) of the Limitation Act which allows her three years from the earliest date on which she has the knowledge required for bringing an action for damages in respect of her injuries. Under s 24A(4)(b), the knowledge required means knowledge of the identity of the bus driver, ie, the appellant. The respondent submitted that a period of eight weeks should be factored in calculating the limitation period in view of her cognitive impairment caused by the accident. Her action was therefore not time-barred.8 On 28 April 2021, the DJ decided in favour of the respondent. She issued her grounds of decision on 3 June 2021. She stated that, having regard to the evidence of Dr Yang’s evidence on the respondent’s medical condition, the earliest point in time when she could reasonably have started to have the requisite knowledge to bring an action against the appellant would be at least eight weeks from the date of the accident on 14 May 2016, ie, around mid-July 2016. Hence, the DJ held that the respondent’s action was not time-barred.9 On 16 September 2021, the appellant’s appeal was dismissed by a judge of the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”).10 The Judge agreed that the action was not time-barred. Pertinently, the Judge held that, on a plain and ordinary reading of s 24A of the Limitation Act and from the extant case law, a fact-specific approach was to be taken to ascertain the requisite knowledge under that provision. In her view, the court should have regard to all of the particular plaintiff’s circumstances in determining whether the plaintiff could reasonably have been expected to acquire the requisite knowledge from facts observable and ascertainable by her.11 The Judge also dismissed the appellant’s contention that the facts showed that the respondent should have reasonably acquired knowledge of his identity by 23 May 2016 and, relatedly, his challenge against Dr Yang’s evidence.12 On 15 October 2021, the appellant filed an appeal to the AD and applied unsuccessfully to transfer the appeal from the AD to the Court of Appeal. The present appeal was then fixed for hearing by the AD.The court’s decisionWhether leave to appeal was required13 The present case was transferred at first instance to the District Court pursuant to para 2(a) of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Transfer of Specified Proceedings to District Court) Order 2016 (Cap 322, S 597/2016) (the “Transfer Order”) as originally made on 3 November 2016 (the “2016 Version”): at [18] and [21].14 In light of the establishment of the AD and the renaming of the High Court as the General Division of the High Court on 2 January 2021, amendments were made to the 2016 Version and came into operation on 2 January 2021 (the “2021 Version”). Paragraph 5(1) of the 2021 Version allowed an appeal to the General Division of the High Court. However, pursuant to paras 5(2) and 5(2A) of the 2021 Version read with s 29C of the SCJA, leave from the AD is required before a further appeal may be brought against a decision of the General Division to the AD, regardless of the amount in dispute or the value of the subject matter. Hence, for the present appeal, it appeared that leave to appeal was required from the AD but was not sought: at [19] to [22].15 The appellant’s submission that the 2021 Version was inapplicable was unmeritorious. Paragraph 5(2) of the 2021 Version applied to the present appeal because the appeal from the District Court was heard by the General Division. Furthermore, as seen from para 1 of the 2021 Version, the reference to “this Order” within the Transfer Order must be to all versions of the Order from the 2016 Version up to the present version at hand (ie, 2021 Version). The 2016 Version was not deleted but merely amended by the 2021 Version. Moreover, the amendments to the 2016 Version did not introduce any new step in substance: even under the 2016 Version, the appellant was required to obtain leave to appeal: at [24] to [26].16 The appellant’s suggestion that neither the 2016 Version nor the 2021 Version applied was disingenuous and lacked merit. It could not be that the case was in some limbo between the two versions: at [27].17 In the circumstances, a further appeal to the AD is possible if leave to appeal is obtained from the AD: at [28].18 By the date of the hearing on 23 May 2022, the appellant was out of time to seek leave to appeal and counsel for the appellant made an oral application for an extension of time to seek leave. In support, the appellant strove to show that there was merit in the appeal: at [29] and [30].The applicable test for determining whether the respondent had the requisite knowledge19 The appellant submitted that the Judge had erred in law because she should have applied the objective test in Adams v Bracknell Forest Borough Council [2005] 1 AC 76 (“Adams”) in determining whether a plaintiff had constructive knowledge under s 24A(2)(b) read with ss 24A(4)(b) and 24A(6)(a) of the Limitation Act. This question was academic because the Judge had in fact applied the objective approach in Adams. Thus, this platform of the appellant’s case failed and the issue of the applicable test did not arise for the court’s consideration: at [31] to [36].20 The second part of the appellant’s case pertained to the application of the law to the facts. There was no suggestion that the Judge had erred in law for those parts referred to. Hence, on that score alone, this would not have supported an application for leave to appeal. Nevertheless, as parties had already tendered their cases on the substantive merits, the court did not stop counsel for the appellant from addressing it on the merits: at [37] and [38].Dr Yang’s evidence21 The appellant contended that Dr Yang’s evidence should have either been disallowed as expert testimony or given de minimis weight. While the appellant’s point was that Dr Yang was not an independent expert, that did not mean that Dr Yang was not an expert at all. Also, it was a different question whether the court should have given weight to his evidence. The appellant was not able to show that the Judge had erred in relying on Dr Yang’s evidence in reaching this conclusion, especially when the cross-examination of Dr Yang was not as comprehensive and pointed as it could have been. Also, the appellant did not adduce evidence from another expert to challenge Dr Yang’s evidence: at [39], [43] and [44].Whether it was irrelevant that the respondent had applied her mind to the question of the appellant ‘s identity on 23 May 2016 and, if relevant, the consequence22 The transcripts of the trial suggest that it was not necessarily correct that the respondent had made a police report about the accident on 23 May 2016 when she was discharged from the hospital. If in fact she had asked about the identity of the bus driver only in August 2016, that would not assist the appellant because August 2016 would in any event be more than eight weeks (after the accident on 14 May 2016) mentioned by Dr Yang. On the other hand, even if 23 May 2016 was the correct date, the appellant’s case still suffered from a lack of focused cross-examination of the respondent and Dr Yang: at [45] to [47].23 If the respondent had asked about the identity of the bus driver on 23 May 2016, this inquiry was perhaps not as irrelevant as the Judge had thought. It was possible that Dr Yang’s evidence might not have been accepted as the appellant was entitled to test it against the fact that the respondent had applied her mind on 23 May 2016 to ask for the identity of the bus driver. That could have led to a train of inquiry which could have established that, notwithstanding her cognitive impairment, it would not have taken the respondent much more to follow up on that inquiry to seek help to ascertain the identity of the bus driver. However, as the cross-examination of the respondent and Dr Yang before the DJ did not pursue this line of inquiry, the mere fact that the respondent had asked about the identity of the bus driver did not assist the appellant. Furthermore, the respondent did not state the date on which she actually discovered the identity of the bus driver and the appellant did not seek to establish this in cross-examination: at [48] to [50].Conclusion24 There was no merit in the appeal. The court dismissed the oral application for an extension of time to apply for leave to appeal and dismissed the appeal which was filed without leave: at [58].25 The court ordered that the appellant was to pay the respondent costs fixed at $30,000 (all-in): at [59].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
