
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE6 June 2022Case summaryRe Tay Quan Li Leon [2022] SGHC 133Admission of Advocates and Solicitors No 35 of 2022 (Summonses No 1625 and 1664 of 2022)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the High Court (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):  Outcome: The court dismissed the Applicant’s application for a sealing and redaction order in respect of his underlying application to be admitted as an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court of Singapore (the “Admission Application”). The court granted the Applicant’s application to withdraw the Admission Application, subject to certain undertakings. Pertinent and significant point of the judgment:•  The court has the inherent power to grant a sealing and redaction order where it serves the ends of justice. Granting a sealing and redaction order is a departure from the hallowed principle of open justice and would only be done sparingly where the countervailing grounds outweigh the principle of open justice: at [23], [24].•  When acting in its inherent power, the court may exercise such discretion if there is credible evidence that publication of the name of a litigant would pose imminent risks or danger to that litigant. It would not be in the interest of justice to insist on open justice, where doing so could result in disproportionate harm: at [25].•  The court may impose appropriate conditions in permitting an applicant to discontinue an originating summons. In matters of admission to the Bar, such conditions are imposed not with a view to punish, as the court’s disciplinary jurisdiction is only exercised over those who have been admitted as advocates and solicitors. Instead, the court is exercising its jurisdiction to admit as advocates and solicitors those who are fit and proper persons. In doing so, the court may impose conditions that are directed at aiding and enabling an applicant to address any concerns regarding his character and competence that go towards establishing in due course his fitness to be admitted: at [38].Background 1 The Applicant, Tay Quan Li Leon, was amongst the 11 students who were found to have cheated in the examinations for the Part B course of the Singapore Bar (the “Part B Exams”) in 2020 (the “2020 Part B Exams”). The Applicant sat for the Part B Exams again in 2021 and passed. By way of AAS 35 of 2022, he sought to be admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Singapore (the “Admission Application”). The Attorney-General (“AG”) objected to his Admission Application, on the ground that he was not a fit and proper person to be admitted to the Singapore Bar. The Applicant subsequently applied to withdraw his Admission Application by way of Summons No 1625 of 2022 (the “Withdrawal Application”), and asked for a sealing and redaction order of the Admission Application by way of Summons No 1664 of 2022 (the “Sealing Order Application”). 2 The AG’s objections arose out of the Applicant’s conduct during and after the 2020 Part B Exams. After the 2020 Part B Exams were held, the Applicant was asked to meet the Dean of the Singapore Institute of Legal Education (“SILE”). The SILE administered the Part B Exams. During the meeting on 15 February 2021, he was asked to explain the patent similarities between his answer scripts and those of Kuek Yi Ting Lynn (“Ms Kuek”). His explanation then was that he and Ms Kuek had spent a significant amount of time studying together, and prepared study notes together, which may be why they would likely end up with similar or even identical answers. On the same day, the SILE sent the Applicant a side-by-side comparison of their answer scripts, copies of the examination papers and a copy of the Examination Rules, and informed him to submit his written representations in response. The Applicant replied, stating that the examination answers were based on his study notes, which were based on “pre-written paragraphs” and “past year papers”. He was also asked to upload the source documents of his study notes, as the PDF files he submitted to SILE on 15 February 2021 were created on 15 February 2021. The Applicant complied.3 Having examined the materials, the Director of the Part B Course concluded that there was reason to believe that the Applicant had cheated and/or facilitated the cheating of another student in the 2020 Part B Exams, and referred the matter to the Student Disciplinary Committee (“SDC”). The SDC conducted a review of the answer scripts in relation to the six subjects in the 2020 Part B Exams, consulted the subject coordinators and considered the Applicant’s written representations and the study notes he had submitted. The SDC gave the Applicant the benefit of the doubt for three subjects, and found that he had cheated in the other three subjects. The SDC also concluded that the Applicant had acted fraudulently or dishonestly in his dealings with the SILE. The SILE subsequently issued a notice dated 22 June 2021, stating that it had decided not to issue to the Applicant the certificate referred to in r 25(4)(a) of the Legal Profession (Admission) Rules 2011 (the “Admission Rules”), which was a necessary pre-requisite for a candidate to be considered for admission to the Bar, until the Applicant had attended and passed the Part B Exams in 2021 (the “SILE Notice”). 4 After he sat for the Part B Exams in 2021, the Applicant filed the Admission Application. Before the Applicant filed the first affidavit accompanying the Admission Application, he wrote to the SILE to inquire as to the level of detail he needed to disclose regarding the cheating incident. The SILE told him to provide sufficient information to allow all concerned parties to understand the matter. In his first affidavit, he did not disclose the cheating incident, save that he had been issued the SILE Notice. The AG sought further details as to why the SILE Notice had been issued. In the first supplementary affidavit, the Applicant explained that the SDC had reason to believe that he had collaborated with another student of the Part B Course, without exhibiting any other information or documents. Upon being pressed by the AG, the Applicant eventually disclosed the findings of the SDC in the second supplementary affidavit.5 In the Sealing Order Application, he applied for his name to be redacted because (a) since he was going to withdraw the Admission Application, there was no public interest in the Applicant’s identity; and (b) referring to a medical memo prepared by Professor Kua Ee Heok of the National University of Singapore (“Professor Kua”), disclosure of his name could trigger a severe psychiatric reaction. In his Withdrawal Application, he applied to withdraw the Admission Application because he recognised that he had failed to display the requisite values of honesty and integrity. The AG objected to both of his applications. The Law Society objected to the Sealing Order Application. The SILE took no position.The decision of the Court 6 The starting point was that granting a sealing and redaction order is a departure from the hallowed principle of open justice, as open court proceedings protect public confidence in the judicial system and guard against judicial arbitrariness. Further, admissions to the Bar are matters of public interest, given the role of the legal profession in upholding the justice system: at [17].   7 Any derogation from the principle of open justice must be either grounded in statute or the court’s inherent powers to do what is necessary to serve the ends of justice. The exercise of the court’s inherent powers to seal and redact a case file may be guided by how Parliament has provided for statutory derogations. The court may also have regard to the factors in s 8(2) of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 (2020 Rev Ed) (“SCJA”), which provide for situations where hearings may be held in private, such as where it would be in the interests of public security, national interests or national security. Having considered these materials, the Court concluded that the power to derogate from the principle of open justice would only be sparingly exercised: at [19], [23], [24]. 8 Where there is credible evidence that the publication of the name of a litigant would pose imminent risk of danger to that litigant, or if the sealing order is necessary to spare the litigant from imminent harm, the court has the discretion to permit redaction of certain information. In considering the exercise of such discretion, the court will have regard to all the circumstances, including whether such harm was self-induced or the likely consequence of the acts of others, or of some illness or underlying condition: at [25].  9 The Court dismissed the Sealing Order Application. First, the court did not accept that the principle of open justice did not apply or could be readily derogated from where a litigant, after having invoked the justice system himself, sought to withdraw from it. The principle of open justice continued to apply in such circumstances. Moreover, it was evident that even the Withdrawal Application raised questions of public interest, which pertain to the character required of a candidate seeking to gain admission to the Bar: at [27], [28]. 10 Secondly, Professor Kua’s memo fell short of the threshold required to justify any departure from the principle of open justice. The sparse memo provided no reasoning nor analysis, and the conclusion that publication of the Applicant’s name could trigger a severe depression was at best tentative. The memo was based on the Applicant’s self-reported symptoms, with no verification of the severity of his symptoms. Therefore, Professor Kua’s memo did not come close to showing that there was an imminent and credible threat of real harm to the Applicant, should his name be published: at [29], [30]. 11 The Court rejected the Applicant’s alternative request for a partial sealing order over the information pertaining to the Applicant’s mental health issues, including Professor Kua’s memo. It was untenable for the Applicant to rely on Professor Kua’s memo as a central pillar of the Sealing Order Application, and then having failed in that application, to seek its redaction. It would place the Court in an impossible position of explaining its reasons for not relying on Prof Kua’s memo without being able to refer to the very document: at [31].10 The Court granted the Withdrawal Application. It was not disputed that the Applicant was not a fit and proper person to be admitted to the Singapore Bar. His cheating in the 2020 Part B Exams, how he had dealt with the SILE when confronted with the suspected cheating, and the unsatisfactory disclosures he made in the present Admission Application showed a deficit of honesty and integrity expected of those who aspire to be part of the legal profession: at [33], [34]. 11 The court has a broad discretion to grant leave on terms it thinks just, when allowing an applicant to discontinue an originating summons under O 21 r 3 of the Rules of Court (2014 Rev Ed): at [35]. 12 The Court considered the best way to deal with the present matter was to permit the Applicant to withdraw the Admission Application, but subject to the imposition of suitable conditions. This was not with a view to punish the Applicant as the Court was not exercising its disciplinary jurisdiction, which could only be exercised over those who had been admitted to the Bar. The Court was exercising its jurisdiction over those who can be admitted to the Bar and was concerned with the question of suitability which is determined by considerations of character and competence. The conditions imposed were to ensure that the Applicant had time to rehabilitate himself and address the issues of character and competence: at [38]. 13 The Court required the Applicant to undertake not to bring a fresh application for admission to the Bar in Singapore or elsewhere for a period of five years.  By way of comparison, five years would be the maximum period of suspension applicable to punish Advocates and Solicitors who were not struck off the roll, under s 83 of the Legal Profession Act 1966 (2020 Rev Ed). The second condition was that the Applicant would need to comply with any prevailing statutory or other requirements that the relevant stakeholders or the court may reasonably require in order to satisfy themselves that he was a fit and proper person for admission. The Applicant was also directed to pay the costs of the applications to the other parties: at [40], [44].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
