
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE1 June 2022Case summarySanum Investments Ltd and another v Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and others and another matter [2022] SGHC(I) 9Originating Summons No 6 of 2022 (Summons No 5882 of 2021) and Originating Summons No 7 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of Philip Jeyaretnam J, Vivian Ramsey IJ and Douglas Jones IJ:Outcome: SICC disallowed applications to set aside an SIAC arbitral award and to set aside an order of court granting leave to enforce the same.Background1 This case is a continuation of a long-running dispute relating to the investments of Lao Holdings NV (“LH”) and Sanum Investments Ltd (“Sanum”) (collectively, the “Investors”) in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (“Laos”), which has been the subject of numerous decisions from the Singapore courts.2 In 2017, the Investors commenced arbitral proceedings against San Marco Capital Partners LLC (“SM”) and Kelly Gass (“Gass”) at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”). The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (“GOL”) was joined as the third respondent in 2018. SM, Gass and GOL are collectively referred to as the “GOL Parties”. On 11 August 2021, the tribunal (“Tribunal”) issued an award (“Award”) dismissing the Investors’ claims in their entirety. The Investors filed applications to set aside the Award and to set aside an order of court which granted the GOL Parties leave to enforce the Award.The material facts3 Sanum, a company incorporated in Macau, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of LH, a Netherlands-incorporated company. Both invested in gaming assets (“Gaming Assets”) in Laos.4 Disputes arose between the Investors on the one hand and GOL on the other. To put an end to their disputes, parties entered into a settlement deed (“Settlement Deed”) on 15 June 2014, pursuant to which the Investors agreed to sell the Gaming Assets to a third party by 15 April 2015, failing which a third-party gaming operator could be appointed. The Investors failed to do so by the stipulated date. GOL then entered into a contract with SM on 16 April 2015 for the management, sale and marketing of the Gaming Assets. That contract was signed by Gass, who was the President of SM.5 Protracted legal battles continued between parties in multiple forums, one of which was SIAC Arbitration Case No. ARB 143/14/MV (“Prior SIAC Arbitration”). In that proceeding, GOL and the Investors accused each other of breaching the Settlement Deed. It is noteworthy that SM and Gass were not parties in this arbitral proceeding. A final award was rendered on 29 June 2017 and enforced as a judgment of the Singapore court on 2 August 2019.6 SIAC Arbitration Case No. ARB 414/17/QW was commenced by the Investors on 19 December 2017, and it is this arbitral proceeding which gave rise to the Award in question. Here, the Investors asserted claims for breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract and conversion of property against SM and Gass. GOL was joined as the third respondent in 2018.7 On 11 August 2021, the Tribunal issued the Award dismissing the Investors’ claims against SM and Gass in their entirety. In particular, the Tribunal dismissed the claims for breach of fiduciary and contractual duties, and a portion of the conversion claims (“Estopped Claims”), on the basis that they were barred by the substantive defence of collateral estoppel under New York law in light of the issues raised in the Prior SIAC Arbitration. The remaining conversion claims were dismissed on separate grounds. As for costs, the Tribunal ordered the Investors to pay approximately 60% of GOL’s legal costs and disbursements (“GOL Costs Order”).8 On 12 November 2021, the Investors filed SIC/OS 7/2022 to set aside the Award in its entirety or in part, on the basis that they were denied a reasonable opportunity to be heard on their claims against SM and Gass. This is because the Tribunal had, on the erroneous basis that the doctrine of collateral estoppel under New York law barred the Estopped Claims, failed to consider the merits of those claims. For this same reason, the Investors allege that the Award was in conflict with Singapore’s public policy of ensuring that parties to a dispute have fair access to justice.9 On 20 December 2021, the Investors filed HC/SUM 5882/2021 in SIC/OS 6/2022 to resist enforcement of the Award. In particular, the Investors resisted the enforcement of the GOL Costs Order on the following basis:a. The Investors were unable to present their case on the GOL Costs Order. The Tribunal relied on a new assertion made in the GOL Parties’ reply costs submissions regarding GOL’s fee arrangement with its counsel, and the Investors did not have an opportunity to address that point.b. The enforcement of the GOL Costs Order would be contrary to the public policy of Singapore. This is due to the aforementioned breach of their respective rights to be heard, as well as the fact that the GOL Costs Order was made pursuant to GOL’s fee arrangement with its counsel, which the Investors allege is champertous and savours of maintenance.c. The GOL Costs Order was not in accordance with parties’ agreed arbitral procedure. Parties agreed to the application of rule 37 of the SIAC Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (6th edition, 1 August 2016) (“SIAC Rules”), which the Investors contend only permits the Tribunal to order costs which GOL has incurred, in the sense of having an obligation to pay. In contravention of this rule, the GOL Costs Order required the Investors to bear fees which GOL was not obliged to pay. For this same reason, the GOL Costs Order exceeded the scope of the submission to arbitration.10 The Investors also sought orders for the anonymisation and redaction of parties’ identities.The Court’s grounds of decision11 The court dismissed the Investors’ prayers for anonymisation and redaction of parties’ identities since the dispute was already in the public domain (at [19]).12 The Investors’ application to set aside the Award was dismissed:a. The Investors’ respective rights to be heard were not breached. The applicability of the New York doctrine of collateral estoppel was an issue squarely before the Tribunal, and the Tribunal’s finding that this doctrine applied supplies a proper and reasonable basis for the Tribunal to not address the merits of the Estopped Claims. Whether the Tribunal made an error in its decision that the doctrine applied goes only to the merits and cannot found a challenge to the Award ([39] and [41]). Further, the mere fact that the Estopped Claims were precluded by the collateral estoppel doctrine cannot found a natural justice challenge: such preclusionary doctrines serve the cause of justice by promoting finality in litigation and their existence in most legal systems demonstrates that they are not in and of themselves objectionable (at [42]–[43]).b. The Award was not in conflict with Singapore’s public policy of access to justice. Amongst other reasons, the Investors did argue issues arising in this dispute in the Prior SIAC Arbitration. There is nothing repugnant about their not being allowed to argue the same issues a second time (at [50]).13 The Investors’ application to resist the enforcement of the Award was dismissed:a. There was no breach of natural justice arising from the Tribunal’s reliance on GOL’s assertion in the GOL Parties’ reply costs submissions. The issues of how much costs should be awarded and whether any award was to be limited by reason of funding arrangements were in play. There were two rounds of costs submissions, and the Investors did not raise any issue about this allegedly belated assertion or seek a further round of submissions. Furthermore, the alleged breach of natural justice would not have prejudiced the Investors (at [52]–[53]).b. The enforcement of the GOL Costs Order would not be contrary to the laws and public policy of Singapore against maintenance and champerty. Champerty and maintenance concern intermeddling that encourages lawsuits by financing them and are not engaged where defence of a lawsuit is concerned. Moreover, GOL’s fee arrangement with its counsel is akin to a conditional fee arrangement. Such arrangements are now permitted for Singapore lawyers representing parties in international arbitrations. Parliament has also recognised the policy benefits of such arrangements (at [54]–[55]).c. The GOL Costs Order was not contrary to parties’ agreed arbitral procedure, and neither did the Tribunal exceed the scope of parties’ submissions. Rule 37 of the SIAC Rules is not limited in the way contended for by the Investors. GOL engaged lawyers who incurred time in its defence, and the value of that time spent forms part of GOL’s costs and comes within Rule 37 (at [59]–[60]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
