
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE30 May 2022Case summaryAttorney-General v Datchinamurthy a/l Kataiah [2022] SGCA 46 Civil Appeal No 20 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA upholds the decision of the judge in the General Division of the High Court to grant leave to the respondent to commence judicial review proceedings.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court held that in ascertaining whether persons were equally situated, the court was to have regard to the nature of the executive action in question and consider whether, in that context, the persons being compared were so situated that it was reasonable to consider that they should be similarly treated. The test was a factual one of whether a prudent person would objectively think the persons concerned were roughly equivalent or similarly situated in all material respects. The notion of being equally situated was an analytical tool used to isolate the purported rationale for differential treatment, so that its legitimacy could then be assessed properly: at [30].1 This was an appeal against the decision of the judge in the General Division of the High Court to grant leave to the respondent to commence judicial review proceedings, on the basis that a prima facie case of unequal treatment had been made out. Background to the appeal2 The respondent was tried and convicted on a capital offence of trafficking in diamorphine, and was sentenced to the mandatory death penalty on 15 April 2015. His appeal against conviction and sentence was dismissed on 5 February 2016 and his application for leave to review this court’s dismissal of the appeal was dismissed on 5 April 2021. 3 Among other civil proceedings, the respondent and 12 other prisoners awaiting capital punishment filed HC/OS 188/2022 (“OS 188”) on 25 February 2022 seeking, inter alia, a declaration that the Attorney-General had acted ultra vires and therefore unlawfully in requesting disclosure of their personal correspondence, and that the Singapore Prison Service (the “SPS”) had acted ultra vires and therefore unlawfully in disclosing the same; as well as damages and other relief for infringement of copyright and breach of confidence. At the time of the present appeal, OS 188 remained pending before the court. 4 On or around 12 April 2022, the respondent was scheduled for execution. The Warrant of Execution was issued on 14 April 2022 and a letter from the SPS informing the respondent’s mother of his upcoming execution was sent on 21 April 2022 (the “Notice”). 5 On 27 April 2022, the respondent filed HC/OA 67/2022, seeking leave to commence judicial review proceedings against the Attorney-General in relation to the scheduling of his execution for 29 April 2022. The respondent sought the following reliefs: (a) a declaration that the Notice was in breach of his rights under Arts 9(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (2020 Rev Ed) (the “Constitution”) as OS 188 was pending; and (b) a prohibiting order or stay of execution of his sentence of death, pending the resolution of OS 188. It was contended that the “effect of the [d]eclaratory orders sought in OS 188” would render his conviction and sentence unlawful and in breach of his rights under Arts 9(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution. 6 The Judge was of the view that Art 9(1) of the Constitution was not engaged, as OS 188 was unlikely to have a bearing on the propriety of the respondent’s conviction or sentence. On the other hand, she found that the respondent had shown a prima facie case of a breach of Art 12(1) of the Constitution. She allowed his application for leave to commence judicial review proceedings on that basis, and consequently ordered a stay of execution pending the resolution of the respondent’s judicial review application.Decision on appeal7 The requirements for leave to commence judicial review proceedings were that: (a) the subject matter of the application was susceptible to judicial review; (b) the applicant had sufficient interest in the matter; and (c) the material before the court disclosed an arguable or prima facie case of reasonable suspicion in favour of granting the remedies sought by the applicant. The first and second requirements were not contentious: the illegality complained of was the decision by the State to schedule the respondent’s execution despite the fact that OS 188 was pending: at [12], [20].8 In relation to the respondent’s Art 9(1) challenge, the heart of the matter was whether an alleged lack of opportunity of the respondent to present his case in OS 188 would have an impact on the lawfulness of his scheduled execution. That was the true premise for the respondent’s assertion that the declaratory relief sought in OS 188 would, if granted, render his conviction and sentence unlawful. Ascertaining this required a closer analysis of the subject matter engaged in OS 188 and what was alleged therein: at [24].9 It was significant that the respondent’s correspondence that was the subject of OS 188 predated his previous application for leave to review this court’s dismissal of his appeal against conviction and sentence. Although the respondent claimed in OS 188 that one of the letters contained detailed instructions to his counsel about reopening his appeal on a ground relating to his mental state that had not been raised in argument previously, the position taken in the said application for leave to review was not premised on his mental state at the material time. This was even though the respondent was represented in the application by Mr Ravi s/o Madasamy, the same counsel who represented him in OS 188, as well as proceedings prior to that application in which the existence of the correspondence had come to light. Yet, s 394K(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 (2020 Rev Ed) provided that an applicant could not make more than one review application in respect of any decision of an appellate court, including more than one leave application. The respondent would therefore be taken to have exhausted his rights of appeal and review of his conviction and sentence with the awareness of matters raised in his correspondence that was the subject of OS 188. It followed that any lack of opportunity of the respondent to present his case in OS 188 did not suffice to make out a prima facie case of reasonable suspicion that the scheduling of his execution breached Art 9(1) of the Constitution: at [25]–[27].10 In relation to the respondent’s Art 12(1) challenge, this court had held in Syed Suhail bin Syed Zin v Attorney-General [2021] 1 SLR 809 (“Syed Suhail”) that in assessing whether an executive action has breached Art 12(1), the proper test was that: (a) the applicant must first discharge his evidential burden of showing that he had been treated differently from other equally situated persons; (b) the evidential burden then shifted to the decision-maker in question to show that the differential treatment was reasonable, in that it was based on legitimate reasons which made the differential treatment proper. This court had held in Syed Suhail that prisoners awaiting capital punishment might prima facie be regarded as being equally situated once they had been denied clemency, although it was recognised that prisoners for whom there were pending recourse or other relevant pending proceedings in which their involvement was required would not be equally situated compared to other prisoners awaiting capital punishment. Where that was the case, this court was of the view that it would be “inappropriate” to proceed with the scheduling of the execution of a prisoner, as the Ministry of Home Affairs had also recognised: at [29].11 In ascertaining whether persons were equally situated, the court was to have regard to the nature of the executive action in question and consider whether, in that context, the persons being compared were so situated that it was reasonable to consider that they should be similarly treated. The test was a factual one of whether a prudent person would objectively think the persons concerned were roughly equivalent or similarly situated in all material respects. The notion of being equally situated was an analytical tool used to isolate the purported rationale for differential treatment, so that its legitimacy could then be assessed properly: at [30].12 The court agreed with the Judge that the respondent was to be regarded as equally situated with prisoners awaiting capital punishment who had been denied clemency and who also had pending proceedings, namely, the other 12 plaintiffs involved in OS 188. The question then was whether, on a prima facie basis, OS 188 could be said to be a relevant pending proceeding in which the respondent’s involvement was required: at [31].13 The appellant argued that there were two groups of relevant proceedings, and that OS 188 fell into neither group. The first group involved proceedings which had an impact on the conviction and sentence of an accused person. The second group involved disposal, forfeiture or other proceedings in which his testimony was required. However, the appellant’s assertions of a lack of relevance of OS 188 were in substance an attempt to have the court try OS 188 without the benefit of a proper trial. While the court found that the respondent could not make out a prima facie case of reasonable suspicion that OS 188 would impugn the validity of his conviction and sentence in relation to Art 9(1), it was not possible to conclusively determine, in the absence of a hearing of OS 188, that there could not be a prima facie case of reasonable suspicion in relation to Art 12(1): at [33]–[34].14 The appellant had agreed that disposal or forfeiture proceedings would be a “relevant” outstanding proceeding. It could be argued that such proceedings stood on the same footing as either would (arguably at least) have no bearing on the conviction and sentence imposed on the respondent. Moreover, the dispute in OS 188 had arisen from the unauthorised disclosure by the SPS to the Attorney-General’s Chambers of private correspondence belonging to, amongst others, the respondent. As far as he was concerned, that correspondence been generated in the course of his criminal proceedings. OS 188 could therefore be said to be connected to those proceedings, as the Judge had recognised. The court also agreed with the Judge that the respondent’s involvement in OS 188 would be required inasmuch as his personal knowledge of the events would be important, since specific references had been made to the respondent’s correspondence and/or his rights; and without the respondent’s participation, his claim in OS 188 could be hampered: at [35]–[36].15 The court rejected the appellant’s argument that since issues concerning the declarations sought in OS 188 were resolved in earlier proceedings, the respondent’s involvement in OS 188 was not required. These proceedings had different bases: at [37]. 16 Even taking the appellant’s case at its highest, it could not be said that in the present case, the correspondence that was the subject of OS 188 was completely irrelevant to the respondent’s conviction and sentence of death. The court could not speculate on what evidence would be adduced in respect of OS 188, and the effect that that evidence might have on the respondent’s arguments on an alleged breach of Art 12(1): at [38].17 The respondent had therefore established a prima facie case that OS 188 was a relevant pending proceeding in which his involvement was required. Further, based on the evidence before the Judge, the other 12 plaintiffs in OS 188 had not yet been scheduled for execution, and certainly not for the same date as the respondent. This then shifted the evidential burden to the appellant to provide justification for treating him differently, and it did not appear that there was such justification in the circumstances: [39].18 That was not to say, however, that where a prisoner awaiting capital punishment had a pending legal proceeding, the decision to schedule him for execution would automatically attract the protection of Art 12(1) (and consequently, a stay of execution) on that basis. In the absence of the proceeding being “relevant”, having regard to the nature of the executive action, a prisoner with a pending proceeding would be equally situated with other prisoners without such proceedings. In other words, the fact that a prisoner awaiting capital punishment had a pending (albeit not relevant) proceeding but was nevertheless scheduled for execution was not differential treatment which required justification: at [40].19 It was also significant that OS 188 appeared to be a proceeding brought in good faith, that was filed without notice of the date of the scheduled execution: at [41].20 Accordingly, the court dismissed the appeal: at [42]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
