
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE27 May 2022Case summaryRaj Kumar s/o Aiyachami and another v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 45Criminal Appeals No. 14 and 15 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA allows the appeal of Raj Kumar s/o Aiyachami (“Raj”) against his conviction and mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking, as he had been able to successfully establish his defence of mistaken delivery and rebut the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 1985, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “MDA”). CoA allows the appeal of Ramadass Punnusamy (“Ramadass”) against his conviction and sentence of life imprisonment for drug trafficking, as the statements used to show that he had actual knowledge of the nature of the drugs could not be relied on. He was also able to successfully establish his defence that he believed he was delivering chemically sprayed tobacco and rebut the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the MDA. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In general, a person is not likely to make a statement to his own detriment unless it is true. Where a witness testifies against his own interest, this is a weighty factor in evaluating his evidence, as in the present case. Accordingly, the Judge should not have rejected the witness’s evidence which was not materially damaged under cross-examination, in the absence of a finding of actual collusion: at [64] to [71]. •  Where the case against an accused person turns on the specific words that are reflected in a statement, it is important that the court be satisfied as to the accuracy of the statement. In the present case, the numerous discrepancies and inconsistencies regarding which words Ramadass had actually used, as well as the record of the time the statements were recorded, rendered the contemporaneous statements recorded from Ramadass unsafe to rely on. Accordingly, the Judge had erred in relying upon those statements to find that Ramadass had actual knowledge that he was delivering cannabis: at [103] to [122]. Background to the appeal and material facts1 Ramadass Punnusamy (“Ramadass”) the appellant in CCA 15/2020 was observed delivering a bag of drugs into the possession of Raj Kumar s/o Aiyachami (“Raj”) the appellant in CCA 14/2020. The bag of drugs contained not less than 1875.8g of cannabis (“the Drugs”).  2 Raj was charged with one charge under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (the “MDA”) of trafficking in a controlled drug, by having in his possession for the purpose of trafficking the Drugs. Ramadass was charged with one charge under s 5(1)(a) the MDA for delivering the Drugs to Raj. 3 Raj did not dispute his possession of the Drugs. He disputed knowledge of the nature of the Drugs at trial, and his defence was one of a “mistaken delivery”. According to Raj, he had ordered tobacco laced with a synthetic chemical that mimicked the narcotic effects of cannabis (ie, Butterfly or chemically-sprayed tobacco) from one “Vijay” on credit terms. He had gone to the Senoko area to pick up the Butterfly but had instead received the Drugs. Raj called one Mark Kalaivanan s/o Tamilarasan (“Mark”), who testified that he had gone to the Senoko area to pick up a delivery of cannabis and chewable tobacco but had instead received Butterfly. Raj also called one Vicneswaran s/o Subramaniam (“Vicneswaran”) who testified that he had been purchasing Butterfly from Raj previously, at about the time of the offence.  4 Ramadass did not dispute that he had delivered the Drugs to Raj, but disputed knowledge of the nature of the Drugs. Ramadass had given three contemporaneous statements at the time of his arrest (“the Contested Statements”), in which he appeared to have admitted to having knowledge of the nature of the Drugs. At trial, Ramadass challenged the voluntariness as well as accuracy of the Contested Statements. He testified that he had been told by a person known to him as “Muruga”, that four bags of what Ramadass believed to be chemically-sprayed tobacco had been placed in the lorry he was driving (“the Lorry”). According to Ramadass’s testimony at trial, he had delivered three bags to unknown persons, before he delivered the Drugs to Raj. 5 The trial Judge (“the Judge”) found that Raj had been unable to rebut the presumption under s 18(2) of the MDA. In particular, the Judge disbelieved the evidence of Raj having found Raj’s account of how he had ordered Butterfly on credit from Vijay too incredible to believe. The Judge rejected Mark’s evidence because he found that Mark and Raj had ample opportunity to collude and manufacture the evidence Mark gave in court. The Judge also rejected Ramadass’s evidence that he had made multiple deliveries, because: he found it unbelievable that Muruga did not inform Ramadass which bag to pass each recipient; Ramadass had failed to mention the other deliveries in his statements; and, Ramadass had ample opportunity to tailor his evidence having heard Raj’s and Mark’s evidence at trial. In any event, the Judge found that Raj would also have known that the Drugs was cannabis from its distinctive smell and Raj had failed to investigate the contents as he must have known that it was cannabis. 6 As for Ramadass, the Judge found that the Contested Statements had been given voluntarily and held that they were admissible. Relying upon the Contested Statements, the Judge found that Ramadass had actual knowledge that he was delivering cannabis. In the alternative, the Judge found that Ramadass had not rebutted the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the MDA. Having previously refused Muruga’s request to bring things into Singapore for fear that he could be made to transport drugs, the Judge did not believe Ramadass would have accepted Muruga’s assertion that it was only chemically-sprayed tobacco that had been placed in the Lorry. 7 This was Raj and Ramadass’s appeals against their conviction and sentence. Their appeals turn solely on whether they each had knowledge (actual or presumed) of the nature of the Drugs.Decision on appeal8 Raj’s evidence of having ordered Butterfly on credit from Vijay was not materially damaged under cross-examination, and should not have been rejected. First, the Judge had not considered the entirety of the relationship between Raj and Vijay, such as the previous transactions they had entered into or how they came to know each other. Second, in disbelieving the credit terms allegedly offered to Raj, the Judge had not considered that in such circumstances, enforcement of credit terms may not be by conventional legal means: at [58] to [63].9 In general, a person is not likely to make a statement to his own detriment unless it is true. Mark’s evidence of having gone to Senoko to collect cannabis was against his own interest, which is a weighty factor in evaluating his evidence. Accordingly, the Judge should not have rejected Mark’s evidence which was not materially damaged under cross-examination, in the absence of a finding of actual collusion. The Judge only found that Mark and Raj had an opportunity to collude, but this did not amount to a finding of such collusion having taken place. The Prosecution had failed to discharge its evidential burden to rebut this aspect of Raj’s defence: at [64] to [71]. 10 The late introduction of exculpatory evidence is treated with scepticism, as one would expect it to have been produced early on. However, this is not true of evidence that is inculpatory in nature. Ramadass’s failure to mention the other deliveries, which was evidence of his having delivered more than one package of illicit substances, was inculpatory. The fact that Ramadass did not volunteer this information at an earlier stage would not necessarily undermine the reliability of his evidence: at [73] to [74]. 11 Ramadass’s testimony of having handed out four bags at random should not have been rejected as inherently incredible. First, if Ramadass had genuinely believed the items to be the same, he may not have considered it necessary to differentiate the bags. Second, it was not the Prosecution’s case at trial nor was it put to Ramadass by the Prosecution that Ramadass’s evidence of having randomly delivered the four bags was inherently incredible. Key points which are relied upon to convict an accused person should be put to him before it is made as a submission by the Prosecution: at [75] to [78]. 12 The Judge had erred in concluding that Ramadass had tailored his evidence to fit Raj’s defence. First, even before Mark or Raj had testified, Ramadass’s counsel had advanced the case that he had made several deliveries on 21 September 2015. Second, in Ramadass’s statements recorded on 24 and 26 September 2015, he had stated that he believed he was bringing in chemically-sprayed tobacco. This was before Raj had even met Mark in prison. Third, the Judge had not considered the objective evidence which supported Ramadass’s testimony that he had made the three other deliveries: at [80] to [87]. 13 Despite the fact that key aspects of Vicneswaran’s testimony were consistent with Raj’s evidence and had properly put in issue evidence that Raj had been dealing in Butterfly at the time of his arrest, the Judge did not make any findings on Vicneswaran’s evidence or as to whether Raj had in fact been selling Butterfly at the time of the arrest: at [88] to [90]. 14 The Judge erred in accepting the Prosecution’s submission that Raj must have known that he was in possession of cannabis based on the smell that allegedly emanated from the package. First, there was no unequivocal evidence that the smell of cannabis was so pervasive that Raj must have noticed it and so known the nature of the Drugs. Second, the Prosecution had not led evidence to show that Raj could not have failed to notice the smell of cannabis: at [91] to [97]. 15 From the evidence, Raj had succeeded in establishing his mistaken delivery defence, which was supported by the evidence of Mark, Vicneswaran, and Ramadass. Accordingly, as the Prosecution has failed to discharge its evidential burden to rebut Raj’s defence, the court allowed Raj’s appeal, setting aside his conviction and acquitting him: at [98] to [99]. 16 On appeal, Ramadass’s primary contention with the Contested Statements was that they had not been accurately recorded, and could not be relied upon to support the finding of actual knowledge on his part. The court agreed with Ramadass that the numerous discrepancies and inconsistencies regarding which words Ramadass had actually used, as well as the record of the time when the statements were recorded, rendered the Contested Statements unsafe to rely on. Where the case against an accused person turns on the specific words that are reflected in a statement, it is important that the court be satisfied as to the accuracy of the statement. Accordingly, the Judge had erred in relying upon the Contested Statements to find that Ramadass had actual knowledge that he was delivering cannabis: at [103] to [122]. 17 Where the appellant seeks to rebut the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the MDA, the appellant should be able to say what he thought or believed he was carrying. The court would then assess the credibility and veracity of his assertion against the objective facts and examine his actions in relation to the purported item. This is a highly fact-specific inquiry: at [125]. 18 Turning to the facts of Ramadass’s case and leaving aside the Contested Statements, Ramadass had consistently maintained that he believed he was bringing in chemically-sprayed tobacco. This assertion was supported by the objective facts. First, before Ramadass could have known about Raj’s mistaken delivery defence or that Butterfly had been found in Raj’s car, Ramadass had told the investigating officer that he believed he was bringing in chemically-sprayed tobacco. Second, any inconsistencies between the evidence of Ramadass and the evidence of Mark and Raj, were left unexplored by the Prosecution. Third, Ramadass’s case was that the items were placed in the Lorry by Muruga and he was later told where they were, not that he had agreed to carry these items because of what he was told. Accordingly, there was no reason why Ramadass would have been bound to disbelieve Muruga due to his refusal to help Muruga in the past: at [124] to [130]. 19 Since the Contested Statements were held not to be reliable to show that Ramadass had actual knowledge of the Drugs, Ramadass succeeded in rebutting the presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the MDA. The court accordingly allowed Ramadass’s appeal, setting aside his conviction and acquitting him: at [131]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
