
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE23 May 2022Case summaryTay Yak Ping and another v Tay Nguang Kee Serene [2022] SGHC(A) 22 Civil Appeal No 90 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Belinda Ang Saw Ean):Outcome: AD dismisses appeal against decision that sale proceeds from property were held on resulting trust, and sets out observations on whether monetary contributions towards ancillary costs of purchasing property (eg, stamp duty) should be taken into account in determining parties’ beneficial shares under a resulting trust.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  There was no basis for appellate interference with the Judge’s findings as they were not against the weight of the evidence before him or plainly wrong. The appeal was therefore dismissed: at [2]. •  The facts of the present case incidentally raised an interesting (and as yet unresolved) question of law as to whether monetary contributions towards the ancillary costs of purchasing a property (such as stamp duty) should be taken into account in determining the parties’ respective beneficial shares in that property under a resulting trust: at [60].  •  Having regard to case law in England, Australia, and Hong Kong, it was at least arguable that monetary contributions towards stamp duty should be included in determining the parties’ respective beneficial shares under a resulting trust: at [61] to [68].•  On the classic formulation of the doctrine of purchase money resulting trusts in Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale v Islington London Borough Council [1996] AC 669, the analysis was not limited to the purchase price of the property, but was instead broad enough to encompass stamp duty payable on the purchase of the property in question: at [68]. •  The court also found quite persuasive McLelland J’s reasoning in the Supreme Court of New South Wales’s decision in Currie v Hamilton [1984] 1 NSWLR 687 that what mattered was the cost to the purchasers of acquiring the property in question (which would include not only the purchase price, but also necessary ancillary costs such as stamp duty), rather than the benefit to the vendor (which was limited to the purchase price), given that the focus of the resulting trust analysis was on the proper apportionment of the beneficial interest in a property between those claiming to have acquired an interest in that property inter se, and not on the apportionment of any interest as between those parties and the vendors of the property: at [68]. •  In addition, it was often fortuitous whether the money of one person or another was used to pay the purchase price or the stamp duty (or even the legal expenses). The broader approach might also commend itself to the practical importance of this issue, bearing in mind the stamp duty regime in Singapore: at [68].Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellants were father and son (“Father” and “Yak Ping” respectively), and the respondent (“Serene”) was Yak Ping’s older sister and Father’s youngest daughter. Serene and Yak Ping also had several other siblings, including “Jee Soon”, “Lah Moi” and “Nguang Keow”.2 In 1988, an apartment referred to as the “Valley Apartment” was purchased in the names of Father, Yak Ping, and Yak Ping and Serene’s mother (“Mother”). The purchase was financed partly by a housing loan, with the balance purchase price paid in cash in three separate payments in 1988. Several years later, Mother made a will giving her share of the Valley Apartment to Jee Soon, Lah Moi and Yak Ping in equal shares. Subsequently, in 2005, the Valley Apartment was sold and the sale proceeds paid out to Father, Yak Ping, Jee Soon and Lah Moi in accordance with their respective shares.3 In 2006, another apartment (“the Pacific Mansion Apartment”) was purchased in the joint names of Yak Ping and Father. It was not disputed that the purchase price of the Pacific Mansion Apartment was paid for mostly using the sale proceeds of the Valley Apartment, save for a sum which was paid from Yak Ping’s Central Provident Fund (“CPF”) account. The Pacific Mansion Apartment was sold in 2018.  4 A dispute arose between the parties as to the beneficial ownership of the Pacific Mansion Apartment and its sale proceeds, with Serene claiming that the appellants held this property and its sale proceeds on a resulting trust for her. 5 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) found that the Valley Apartment had been purchased using the proceeds of a business known as “Serene Leather”. The Judge further found that Serene Leather was solely owned by Serene. In the light of these findings, the Judge found that the Valley Apartment (and its sale proceeds) had been held by the appellants on resulting trust for Serene. As 96.07% of the purchase price of the Pacific Mansion Apartment had then been paid using the Valley Apartment’s sale proceeds, the appellants therefore held 96.07% of the sale proceeds from the Pacific Mansion Apartment on resulting trust for Serene. Nevertheless, as Yak Ping had also paid $17,700 from his CPF account towards the stamp duty for the Pacific Mansion Apartment, the Judge additionally ordered Serene to reimburse Yak Ping for her 96.07% share of the $17,700 together with accrued interest. Further, the Judge held that Serene’s claim was not barred by the doctrine of laches. 6 The appellants appealed against the Judge’s decision.Decision on appeal7 Preliminarily, the court rejected the appellants’ suggestion that the evidence of Lah Moi, Nguang Keow and Serene should be disregarded. The appellants had not adduced any evidence to rebut the Judge’s views that these witnesses were honest and truthful, or to substantiate their allegation that Lah Moi and Nguang Keow were biased towards Serene. The appellants’ reliance on the lack of documentary evidence in the present case also did not take them very far, given that in family disputes involving heavily contested events spanning several years and a lack of documentation, the court would have to carefully evaluate the credibility of the parties to ascertain the truth from the disparate versions of events presented (as the Judge acknowledged), and the Judge proceeded to do precisely this in making his findings of fact: at [22] and [23].8 In relation to Serene’s resulting trust claim, the sole question was whether the presumption of resulting trust arose based on the parties’ respective financial contributions to the purchase price of the Pacific Mansion Apartment at the time it was acquired. The totality of the evidence supported the Judge’s key findings of fact on this issue – namely, that that the purchase price of the Valley Apartment was paid for using Serene Leather’s proceeds, and that Serene Leather and its proceeds were owned solely by Serene. It followed that the Valley Apartment had been purchased using moneys belonging to Serene; and as it was undisputed that 96.07% of the purchase price of the Pacific Mansion Apartment was paid for using the Valley Apartment’s sale proceeds, Serene could be taken to have contributed 96.07% of the purchase price of the Pacific Mansion Apartment. Therefore, following the sale of the Pacific Mansion Apartment, Serene was the beneficial owner of 96.07% of its sale proceeds, and this sum was held by the appellants on a resulting trust for her: at [25], [26], [28], [43], [49] and [50].9 Serene’s claim was not barred by the doctrine of laches. First, the requirement of a substantial lapse of time had not been established. Serene’s commencement of the suit against the appellants on 25 October 2019 did not constitute undue delay on her part as it was only in March 2018, when it became clear to her that Yak Ping intended to claim the entirety of the sale proceeds from the Pacific Mansion Apartment, that time started to run. Second, the appellants would not suffer any particular prejudice that would make it unjust for Serene to be granted relief. The disadvantages caused by the unavailability of evidence and the passage of time cut both ways and were simply unfortunate: at [52], [53] and [56].10 There was thus no basis for appellate interference with the Judge’s findings, and the appeal was dismissed: at [2].11 Although these conclusions were sufficient for the disposal of the appeal, the court took the opportunity to draw attention to an issue which was not raised or addressed by either party, to avoid any misguidance as to what could and could not constitute monetary contributions for the purpose of a resulting trust analysis. The Judge had expressly declined to include Yak Ping’s contribution of $17,700 for the payment of the stamp duty as a contribution towards the purchase price of the Pacific Mansion Apartment. However, the Judge’s legal reasoning behind his exclusion of stamp duty in computing the parties’ beneficial shares was not clear-cut, and raised an interesting question of law as to whether monetary contributions towards the ancillary costs of purchasing a property (such as stamp duty) should be taken into account in determining the parties’ respective beneficial shares in that property under a resulting trust. Having regard to the relevant case law in other jurisdictions, it was at least arguable that monetary contributions towards stamp duty should be included in determining the parties’ respective beneficial shares under a resulting trust. The court stressed the importance of resolving this question in an appropriate case where it arose for determination: at [58] to [60], [68] and [69].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
