
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE19 May 2022Case summaryCA/CA 67/2021 CSY v CSZ [2022] SGCA 43--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):Outcome: CoA allowed appeal against a decision of the High Court to stay the entirety of an action commenced in court, to refer a part of the dispute to domestic arbitration and to hold the rest of the dispute in abeyance on case management grounds pending the resolution of the putative arbitration. Background and facts1 This was an appeal by the appellant, CSY, against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) granting the application of the respondent, CSZ, in HC/SUM 2888/2021 (“SUM 2888”) to stay part of HC/S 237/2021 (“S 237”) in favour of a domestic arbitration and to stay the remaining part of S 237 on case management grounds pending the resolution of the putative arbitration.2 The appellant was an exempt private company limited by shares. It was placed first under interim judicial management and then under judicial management in 2020 and a winding up order was made against it in 2021. The respondent was a limited liability partnership incorporated in Singapore and was engaged as the appellant’s external auditor since at least 2003 until it resigned on 17 September 2020. 3 The respondent audited the appellant’s financial statements and issued opinions for each of the financial years (“FYs”) from FY2014 to FY2019. Their engagement was set out in separate engagement letters for each FY. The engagement letters for FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 contained an exclusive jurisdiction clause in favour of the Singapore courts while the engagement letters for FY2018 and FY2019 contained a tiered dispute resolution clause which culminated in arbitration (“the Tiered Arbitration Agreement”).4 In April 2020, the former managing director of the appellant admitted that there were various irregularities in the appellant’s affairs, including material misstatements in its financial statements. The investigations by the interim judicial managers, judicial managers and the liquidators of the appellant (“JMs”) revealed serious irregularities in the appellant’s affairs since at least 2010. As a result, the appellant’s audited financial statements from FY2014 to FY2019 were materially misstated and/or did not give a true and fair view of the financial position and/or performance of the appellant. The JMs’ findings were set out in two reports dated 22 June 2020 (predominantly on FY2019) and 6 November 2020 (predominantly on FY2018 and FY2017).5 The appellant commenced S 237 claiming that the respondent had failed to detect material misstatements in its audited financial statements for FY2014 to FY2019 and that this was in breach of the respondent’s contractual duties to audit the financial statements with reasonable care and skill; and further and alternatively, that the respondent had breached its tortious duty of care. The respondent filed SUM 2888 seeking an order to stay the dispute pertaining to the audits for FY2018 and FY2019 (“FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute”) in favour of arbitration pursuant to s 6 of the Arbitration Act (Cap 10, 2002 Rev Ed) (“AA”) and an order that the dispute pertaining to the audits for FY2014 to FY2017 (“FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute”) be stayed pending the completion of the steps in the Tiered Arbitration Agreement.The decision below6 On 3 November 2021, the Judge held that the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute should be stayed in favour of arbitration and the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute should also be stayed but on case management grounds pending the resolution of the putative arbitration. 7 In relation to the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute, the Judge considered that parties should respect their arbitration agreement and the policy of upholding arbitration agreements should ordinarily be upheld and applied. The parties’ inclusion of the Tiered Arbitration Agreement in their contractual arrangements from FY2018 onwards pointed to a deliberate intent to move towards resolving disputes through arbitration. The appellant should not be permitted to circumvent the Tiered Arbitration Agreement by choosing to commence a single court action that also encompassed matters that fell outside the scope of the Tiered Arbitration Agreement. The fact that there were related actions, some governed by arbitration agreements and others not, was not in itself sufficient reason to sanction a breach of an arbitration clause and depart from the policy in favour of arbitration. 8 In relation to the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute, the Judge considered that the JMs’ reports which were made for the purposes of restructuring showed that it was not necessary to determine the matters pertaining to the earlier years before determining the matters pertaining to the later years in order to find out whether the respondent had breached its duties or obligations or was liable for any tortious acts. There was nothing to suggest that evidence could not be led in the putative arbitration to show the appellant’s purported wrongdoings or breaches without leading evidence on the earlier FYs. There was no prejudice to the appellant in staying S 237 given the relative early stage of the proceedings and the respondent’s willingness to arbitrate the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute.Issues on appeal9 From the parties’ submissions, two principal issues arose for the Court’s consideration:a. whether the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute should be stayed in favour of arbitration under s 6 of the AA; and b. if so, whether the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute should be subject to a case management stay.The latter issue arose only if the Court agreed with the Judge and the respondent on the first issue.The Court’s judgment Whether the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute should be stayed in favour of arbitration10 Under s 6 of the AA, the court may exercise its discretion to allow all the claims, including those governed by the arbitration agreement, to proceed in the courts. Specifically, it may do so when it is satisfied that there was sufficient reason why the matter should not be referred to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration agreement or if the applicant seeking a stay was not ready and willing to do all things necessary for the proper conduct of the arbitration. This discretion, however, was to be exercised in a guarded manner even though the courts had a somewhat wider role and broader latitude in domestic arbitration (at [2], [23]).11 The court, as the final arbiter, should take the lead in ensuring the efficient and fair resolution of the dispute as a whole. In doing so, the court aimed to strike a balance between three higher-order concerns: first, a plaintiff’s right to choose whom he wants to sue and where; second, the court’s desire to prevent a plaintiff from circumventing the operation of an arbitration clause; and third, the court’s inherent power to manage its processes to prevent an abuse of process and ensure the efficient and fair resolution of disputes. The balance that was struck must ultimately serve the ends of justice. These higher-order concerns were applicable to guide the court’s exercise of discretion under s 6 of the AA (at [22], [24]).12 Where there was an applicable arbitration agreement that parties had freely entered into, the court naturally sought to respect party autonomy and hold parties to their agreement, at least as a starting position. To this extent, the plaintiff’s right to choose the forum in which he brings proceedings was curtailed by his own prior agreement to submit certain disputes to arbitration. The party seeking to persuade the court to refuse a stay of court proceedings was required to “show sufficient reason why the matter should not be referred to arbitration” and assuming that the counterparty was ready and willing to arbitrate, the court will only refuse a stay in exceptional circumstances (at [24]).13 In each case, the court must scrutinise the myriad factual circumstances to determine how best to manage its processes and ensure the efficient and fair resolution of the entire dispute. The term “sufficient reason” captured a broad range of factors. Ultimately, the factors invoked will be weighed against and will have to be found to outweigh the significant consideration that the parties had voluntarily bound themselves to arbitrate and ought therefore to be held to their agreement (at [25]).14 The defining feature of the case was the significant overlap between the disputed issues in the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute and the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute. This was ultimately not disputed by the parties. While the mere fact that there were related actions (some which are governed by arbitration agreements and others not) did not in itself amount to sufficient reason to refuse a stay of court proceedings in favour of arbitration, the present case went beyond that (at [27] to [29]).15 The significant overlap between the factual issues in dispute was such that the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute and the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute were nearly identical. The overlapping issues included how each of the audits were planned and carried out, the duties which were owed (and allegedly breached) by the respondent, the extent to which knowledge acquired by the auditors in the earlier years was or ought to have been carried forward into subsequent years, the extent to which any breaches from one period were carried forward into the next, and the similar nature of the transactions that spanned all the FYs. The inquiry into whether the respondent had breached its duties in each FY was likely similar notwithstanding that there may be some differences from year to year. The evidence to be considered tended to be factually sequential and more importantly, it was likely interconnected running across the various audits. The witnesses who were to give evidence were also likely to cover the same ground before both fora (at [30]).16 The significant overlap in the disputed factual issues also gave rise to a real prospect of inconsistent findings between the two fora. It seemed unrealistic to imagine that the analysis of the respondent’s conduct in the subsequent years could take place in isolation from what had been done in the previous years or vice versa. It may well be necessary for the arbitral tribunal to consider and express its views on the evidence of what had happened throughout the course of the parties’ audit relationship even before FY2018 even if it does not have jurisdiction to determine the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute. It would also be difficult for the court to come to a conclusion on such issues as damages without looking into precisely what transpired in the subsequent years (at [31] to [32]).17 The feature of overlapping issues in dispute and the risk of inconsistent findings was not addressed by a case management stay. While the court hearing the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute would have the benefit of the arbitral tribunal’s findings, those findings would not be binding on the court. There would still be the material risk of inconsistent findings in that the two fora will assess the same evidence and may come to different conclusions on that evidence (at [33]).18 The attendant risk of bringing disrepute to the administration of justice was also raised. That would be so if, the same question despite having been disposed of in one case, were liable to be reopened or susceptible to a collateral attack in a different proceeding. Whether the putative arbitration or action in court was heard first, the factual disputes over the respondent’s conduct would likely be litigated twice before two fora and this then gave rise to possible issues of issue estoppel and res judicata. There was also a risk of undermining confidence in the administration of justice if the arbitral tribunal and the court were to come to inconsistent findings on the same evidence in relation to the overlapping or common issues. There was the additional complication that the parties would have the right to appeal against the court’s findings but not the arbitral tribunal’s findings (at [34] to [35]).19 The parties’ intentions were not determinative. From the way parties had structured their commercial relationship, any disputes that had arisen throughout the parties’ engagement from 2003 to 2017 would have been resolved by the courts. The parties only included the Tiered Arbitration Agreement for FY2018 and FY2019. There was nothing to specifically suggest that they intended this change in policy to apply even to a dispute spanning multiple years engaging substantially similar issues or that they had foreseen the attendant inconveniences with resolving a multi-year dispute across two different fora. Further, the fact that the parties chose to structure the Tiered Arbitration Agreement under the AA instead of the International Arbitration Act 1994 (2020 Rev Ed) suggested that they did not harbour a specific intention that the Tiered Arbitration Agreement was to have mandatory force. Thus, exercising the court’s discretion to refuse a stay of the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute did not contravene the parties’ intentions (at [36] to [37]).20 A stay of the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute in favour of arbitration was not in the interests of justice. Splitting the entire dispute between the parties into two discrete portions to be dealt with by two separate fora would add very significantly to the already complex task of managing the resolution of this matter. It was questionable whether this was even viable in the final analysis. Considering the duplication of having two fora consider the same evidence, the real possibility of satellite litigation of issues relating to issue estoppel or res judicata, the inconvenience of having factual witnesses testify before two different fora on the same issues, the delay that may arise from an appeal of the court’s decision and the benefits to case management from a single judge hearing the entire dispute, it was in the best interests of the parties for their entire dispute to be resolved in one forum (at [38]).Whether the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute should be subject to a case management stay21 Given the Court’s decision not to stay the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute in favour of arbitration, the issue of imposing a case management stay for the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute was moot (at [40]).22 The Court observed that the option of utilising a case management stay for the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute was not a meaningful option in the resolution of the parties’ dispute. It seemed counter-intuitive that the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute would be tried and resolved in arbitration before the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute was heard in court. While the JMs tried to ascertain what had happened starting from FY2019, it seemed wholly improbable that the putative arbitration of the FY2018 and FY2019 Dispute could sensibly be conducted without knowing or understanding what had happened in the years before that. Nor could the trial of the FY2014 to FY2017 Dispute be completed without seeing how it all ended (at [41] to [42]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
