
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE18 May 2022Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Seow Theng Beng Samuel [2022] SGHC 112Court of Three Judges – Originating Summons No 4 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: C3J orders that solicitor who physically and verbally abused employees is to be struck off the roll. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In considering whether a striking off order was warranted in cases of misconduct not involving dishonesty or conflicts of interest, the court should consider whether the misconduct in question attested to any character defects rendering the solicitor unfit to be a member of the legal profession; and whether the solicitor, through his misconduct, caused grave dishonour to the standing of the legal profession. If the answer to either question was “yes”, striking off would be the presumptive penalty. If the answer to both these questions was “no”, the court should proceed to examine the facts of the case closely to determine whether there were circumstances that nonetheless rendered a striking off order appropriate: at [41].Background to the application and material facts 1 Mr Seow Theng Beng Samuel (the “respondent”) is a solicitor of 20 years’ standing. At the material time, he was the Managing Director of Samuel Seow Law Corporation (“SSLC”). He also owned and managed a talent management company known as Beam Artistes Pte Ltd, which shared the same office premises as SSLC.2 From March to April 2018, the respondent was responsible for eight instances of misconduct against his employees, including the throwing of objects in their direction, threatening to take a knife to kill one of them, and other instances of physical and verbal abuse.3 The Law Society of Singapore brought charges against the respondent in respect of the misconduct against the respondent before a disciplinary tribunal, which found that there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action.4 The Law Society of Singapore then applied for the respondent to be sanctioned under s 83(1) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“LPA”). It argued that due cause for disciplinary action had been made out, and that the appropriate sanction was for him to be struck off the roll.DecisionThere was due cause for disciplinary action5 There was due cause for disciplinary action against the respondent under s 83(2)(h) of the LPA. It was plain that a reasonable person would, without hesitation, say that as a solicitor he should not have done what he had done: at [31].6 The video footage of some of the instances of misconduct was more than sufficient to indicate that both abusive language and extremely unruly behaviour were involved. Further, the respondent’s misconduct should be considered as worse for having been perpetrated on his employees. It was also plain that the eight instances of misconduct were part of a pattern of intemperate and boorish behaviour, and not isolated incidents. Limited weight was given to the respondent’s claims of remorse, given that he had initially downplayed his misconduct and misstated the position both to the Law Society’s Inquiry Committee and to the Media, and his attempt following the hearing of the application to suggest that one of his victims may have overstated their complaint: at [16] to [19] and [22].7 The arguments raised by the respondent to mitigate the seriousness of his misconduct were not borne out. It was not a factor in the respondent’s favour to say that none of the victims sustained serious injury. It was also no defence to argue that there was no evidence of a systemic problem of intemperate lawyers; his actions reflected poorly upon the profession, and would be likely to undermine public confidence in the profession. There was also little evidence for the respondent’s claims that he suffered from Adjustment Disorder at the time of his misconduct, much less that the disorder contributed to his actions: at [24] and [30].Striking off in cases of misconduct not involving dishonesty8 In considering whether a striking off order was warranted in cases of misconduct not involving dishonesty or conflicts of interest, the court should consider whether the misconduct in question attested to any character defects rendering the solicitor unfit to be a member of the legal profession; and whether the solicitor, through his misconduct, caused grave dishonour to the standing of the legal profession. If the answer to either question was “yes”, striking off would be the presumptive penalty. If the answer to both these questions was “no”, the court should proceed to examine the facts of the case closely to determine whether there were circumstances that nonetheless rendered a striking off order appropriate: at [41].The appropriate sanction was striking off9 The respondent’s conduct evinced such volatility and lack of self-control that it detracted from his ability to discharge his professional functions; this was a character defect rendering him unfit to be a member of the legal profession. His conduct had also caused grave dishonour to the standing of the legal profession. The presumptive penalty was therefore striking off. The mitigating factors raised by the respondent did not overcome this presumption: at [44] to [46].10 The respondent was therefore ordered to be struck off the roll: at [48].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
