
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE18 May 2022Case summaryLeck Kim Koon v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 42Criminal Motion No 25 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA dismisses application to refer purported questions of law of public interest concerning the procedural requirements for taking accused persons’ statements and the elements of cheating and dishonestly inducing a delivery of property.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The application was dismissed because, save for one sub-question, the questions were not questions of law. The remaining sub-question was a question of law but not one of public interest.•  For statements recorded under s 22 of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed), there was no requirement for: (a) Investigating Officers to record them word for word; (b) independent interpreters to be present during the taking of such statements; and (c) the court to hold an ancillary hearing when an accused person contests the accuracy of such statements.•  An adverse costs order against the Applicant was justified because the application amounted to a backdoor appeal.1 This was an application for leave under s 397(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap 68, 2012 Rev Ed) (the “CPC”) to refer two purported questions of law of public interest (“Question 1” and “Question 2”, respectively) to the Court of Appeal. The Applicant subsequently sought to amend these two questions and part of this application included what was in substance an application to refer an additional question to the court (the “Additional Question”). These three questions shall be collectively referred to as the “Questions”.2 The Questions arose out of the Applicant’s conviction by the District Court on six charges of cheating under s 420 of the Penal Code (Cap 224, 2008 Rev Ed) for having used duplicate copies of the same transport document to obtain disbursement of funds from six banks (see Public Prosecutor v Leck Kim Koon [2020] SGDC 292). He was sentenced to a global sentence of 36 months’ imprisonment. He then appealed against his conviction and sentence but the High Court dismissed both appeals in Leck Kim Koon v Public Prosecutor [2021] SGHC 236.3 Question 1 asked if there are the following procedural requirements in the taking of statements under s 22 of the Criminal Procedure Code:a. Where the person giving the statement is speaking in a language other than English, whether the statement should be interpreted and read over to the person verbatim in a language he understands or whether an “explanation” of the statement to the person in a language he understands would be sufficient for the purpose of s 22(4) of the CPC?b. Should the Investigating Officer examining a witness in order to record a statement be required to: (a) record the statement word for word rather than in an edited narrative form, and/or (b) arrange for an interpreter to interpret and read over the statement to the person being examined rather than the Investigating Officer himself acting as examiner, recorder and interpreter?c. What weight should be given to a statement, in particular, parts thereof which are alleged to be admissions and used for the purposes of conviction, when the examination by the Investigating Officer has been reduced into a written statement in a narrative form rather than a verbatim record, and/or the statement has not been interpreted and read over verbatim to the witness by a person other than the examiner?4 Question 2 concerned the elements of s 420 of the Penal Code:a. Where the terms and conditions of a transaction (such as invoice financing of the banks) do not require a document to be furnished (a transport document such as a Bill of Lading) as a precondition for disbursement of monies or handing over of property, can there be deception by the submission of a wrong but unnecessary (transport) document?b. Whether the element of “dishonestly induces any person to deliver any property” in s 420 of the Penal Code is satisfied when a misrepresentation in a contractual document has been submitted by a customer without an intention to cause wrongful gain or wrongful loss and the document was not relied upon by, and/or did not cause, that person to deliver property.c. Arising from (a) and (b), does the fact that the banks rely only on the customer’s contractual warranties and external independent security to disburse the loans, imply that the banks cannot be said to have been induced by other non-material and non-essential documents, to deliver property within the meaning of s 420 of the Penal Code?5 The Additional Question asked whether the ancillary hearing procedure in s 279 of the CPC must be utilised whenever an accused person contests the accuracy of the recorded statement even if he does not challenge the voluntariness of the statement.The court’s decisionQuestion 16 The plain language of s 22 of the CPC did not contain requirements for: (a) Investigating Officers (“IOs”) to record a s 22 statement word for word; and (b) independent interpreters to be present during the taking of s 22 statements: at [18].7 Question 1 essentially concerned compliance with purported procedural requirements of taking s 22 statements according to the Applicant. As regards admissibility, any dispute related only to the application of the relevant law to the facts: whether the procedural non-compliance was sufficiently egregious such that the statements’ prejudicial effect exceeded their probative value. Moreover, once s 22 statements are admitted, the weight to be given to them is a question of fact. Hence, even if the procedural requirements alleged by the Applicant can be read from or read into s 22(4) of the CPC, the resulting inquiry would be one of fact: at [19] and [22].8 In respect of Question 1(a), the plain wording of “read over” and “interpret” must connote that the person reading over the statement dictates that statement verbatim. Hence, while Question 1(a) was a question of law, the answer to it was so obvious that there was no public interest in referring it to the Court of Appeal: at [28] and [29].9 As for Question 1(b), the effect of non-compliance with the two purported requirements on admissibility and weight is a factual inquiry. Question 1(b) was therefore a question of fact. In any case, neither requirement can be read from the plain text of s 22(4) of the CPC. Question 1(b) therefore relates to settled legal issues. Also, the purported requirement of an independent interpreter to interpret and read over the statement was not supported by Parliamentary intention or case law. Hence, even if Question 1(b) was a question of law, it was not one relating to the public interest: at [31] to [34], [40] to [43], and [47] to [49].10 Question 1(c) was premised on the issue of weight and such an inquiry must inherently be factual: at [50] and [51].11 Also, Question 1 as a whole bore great similarity to some questions posed to this court in Ng Chye Huay v Public Prosecutor CA/CM 32/2017 (26 June 2018) (“Ng Chye Huay”). The applicant in that case sought leave to refer seven purported questions of law of public interest to the Court of Appeal, which was refused: at [53] and [54].Question 212 Question 2(a) began with a factual premise and then asked if that premise sufficed for a finding of deception “by the submission of a wrong but unnecessary (transport) document”. It was therefore a question of fact: at [58].13 Question 2(b) asked if the mental element required by s 420 of the Penal Code could be satisfied under hypothetical facts where the elements of the offence were absent. Understood in this way, Question 2(b) was not even a question. Question 2(b) also did not arise from the appeal before the High Court and did not affect the outcome of the appeal because the High Court never found that there was no dishonesty or that the banks were not induced: at [59] to [64].14 Question 2(c) first referred to a specific fact and then asked if this fact implies another fact, such that inducement under s 420 of the Penal Code was satisfied. Question 2(c) also did not arise from the proceedings below and did not affect its outcome. The High Court held that the trial judge had rightly concluded from both the oral and documentary evidence, that the banks had in fact been induced by the provision of the transport documents to disburse the monies to the suppliers under the relevant invoices: at [66] and [67].The Additional Question15 Illustration (d) to s 279(1) of the CPC did not impose a requirement for the court to hold an ancillary hearing where the sole challenge to the accused’s statement related to its accuracy. There was also no such requirement imposed by case law. Since this was a matter of the court’s discretion, the dispute here related to the application of the law, which was a question of fact: at [70] to [76].Conclusion16 Save in respect of Question 1(a), the Questions were not questions of law but of fact. While Question 1(a) was a question of law, it was not one of public interest. In addition, Questions 2(b) and 2(c) did not arise from the proceedings below and do not affect its outcome. The present application for leave was therefore entirely without merit: at [87].Costs17 Because there were several ill-founded attempts at conjuring up or inventing questions of law where none existed, an adverse costs order under s 409 of the CPC was eminently justified to deter future attempts at mounting back-door appeals: at [91] and [92].18 Comparing the present case against Ng Chye Huay, the present application involved an additional subject matter and therefore involved a greater use of the court’s time and resources. Hence, a slight uplift in the quantum of the costs order was justified: at [94].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
