
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE17 May 2022Case summaryCJA v CIZ [2022] SGCA 41 Civil Appeal No. 35 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Judith Prakash):Outcome: CoA reverses the decision of the judge in the General Division of the High Court to set aside part of an arbitral award on the basis of an excess of jurisdiction. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court holds that in considering whether an arbitral tribunal has exceeded its jurisdiction in the making of an award, the court must look at matters in the round to determine whether issues in question were live issues in the arbitration. In doing so, it does not apply an unduly narrow view of what the issues were, but is to have regard to the totality of what was presented to the tribunal whether by way of evidence, submissions or pleadings or otherwise: at [38]. 1 The appeal arises from the decision of the judge in the General Division of the High Court (the “Judge”) to set aside part of an arbitral award (the “Award”) on the basis that the tribunal (the “Tribunal”) had exceeded its jurisdiction. In particular, the Judge held that since the appellant had run its entire case on the premise that there was a subsisting agreement and therefore no issue of expiry of the original agreement arose, it was an excess of jurisdiction for the Tribunal to have found that there was no subsisting agreement, but that the original agreement could be interpreted in a manner which allowed the appellant’s claim. Background to the appeal2 The appellant was a company in the business of providing business and management consultancy services. The respondent was a state-owned company. In September 2012, the respondent and the predecessor of the appellant, Z Co, entered into a consultancy agreement (the “Consultancy Agreement”). Pursuant to the Consultancy Agreement, Z Co was to provide consultancy services to the respondent in relation to mergers and acquisitions of oil and gas fields around the world. In exchange, the respondent would pay Z Co a fee (“Success Fee”) upon the latter’s presentation of an “Opportunity” and the respondent’s completion of an acquisition of an interest in an oil field pursuant to a sale and purchase agreement or similar document (“SPA”). 3 In October 2013, the respondent, Z Co and the appellant executed a Deed of Novation, pursuant to which the Consultancy Agreement was novated to the appellant and the respondent and its term extended from 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2013. By the Deed of Novation, the appellant agreed to perform the terms of the Consultancy Agreement as if it were Z Co, and the respondent agreed to perform the terms of the Consultancy Agreement as if the appellant had been an original party thereto in place of Z Co. The appellant and the respondent entered into an Assignment, Amended and Restated Consultancy Agreement (the “Amended Agreement”), which terms were in substance the same as those of the Consultancy Agreement. Like the Consultancy Agreement, the Amended Agreement was to expire at the end of 2013. The three contracts all provided for disputes to be finally resolved by arbitration before the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”).4 A dispute subsequently arose over whether the appellant was entitled to payment of Success Fees under the Amended Agreement. The appellant then commenced arbitration against the respondent in the SIAC. The appellant alleged that despite the successful completion of two Opportunities (the “X Opportunity” and the “Y Opportunity”), the respondent had failed to pay it the corresponding Success Fees under the Consultancy Agreement. It pleaded that there was an “Agreement” between it and the respondent comprising the Deed of Novation, the Consultancy Agreement and an oral agreement between the parties’ representatives. Thus, despite the expiration of the Consultancy Agreement, the Success Fees were still payable since, amongst other things, it was orally agreed between parties that the Consultancy Agreement would be extended for a further period. The respondent, however, denied the existence of any subsisting agreement after the Amended Agreement expired at the end of 2013. 5 By way of the Award dated 25 September 2020, the Tribunal upheld the appellant’s claim in respect of the X Opportunity. Although it rejected the appellant’s assertion of an “Agreement” that was partly oral and partly written, it considered that the real matter at the heart of the proceedings was whether the appellant could maintain claims in respect of the Opportunities proposed by it (or Z Co) which had been accepted by the respondent before the expiry of the Amended Agreement. Based on its interpretation of the material terms of the Amended Agreement, it found that a SPA need not be entered into and/or completed before the expiry of either the Consultancy Agreement or the Amended Agreement. Under the terms of the same and due to the very complex nature of the transactions they encompassed, unless expressly circumscribed by explicit clauses, the right to recover Success Fees was not lost as long as a clear link to the successful completion of the Opportunity was shown. Thus, the appellant’s claim for Success Fees as regards the X Opportunity was allowed, as the subject of an acquisition in 2016, namely, shares in X Co, was exactly the same as in an earlier transaction that Z Co and the appellant had worked on previously and which was later aborted. 6 On 9 December 2020, the respondent applied to the High Court seeking a setting aside of the parts of the Award relating to the Success Fee as regards the X Opportunity. The Judge was of the view that since the Tribunal found that there was no subsisting agreement after the Amended Agreement expired at the end of 2013, the very premise of the appellant’s claim had been rejected and that ought to have been the end of its claim. The Tribunal’s findings on certain of the provisions therein were in fact inconsistent with the positions taken by the appellant on them. Yet, the Tribunal went on to find that the appellant could nevertheless claim its Success Fee based on grounds that were nowhere to be found in the appellant’s Notice of Arbitration, pleadings, or submissions in the arbitration proceedings. The Tribunal had therefore exceeded its jurisdiction, and the respondent’s application to set aside those parts of the Award was allowed. 7 The appellant appealed arguing, amongst other things, that the Judge had erred by taking a narrow and limited view of its pleaded case at the Arbitration. The respondent argued that, apart from the Award having been properly set aside for an excess of jurisdiction, the appeal could also be dismissed on the additional ground that there was a breach of natural justice in the making of the Award. Decision on appeal8 A two-stage inquiry applied in assessing whether an arbitral award should be set aside for an excess of jurisdiction. Further, the question of what matters were within the scope of the parties’ submission to arbitration would be answerable by reference to five sources: the parties’ pleadings, the list(s) of issues, opening statements, evidence adduced, and closing submissions at the arbitration. This was an elaboration of the principle that in considering whether the jurisdiction had been exceeded, the court would look at matters in the round to determine whether the issues in question were live issues in the arbitration. In doing so, it did not apply an unduly narrow view of what the issues were. Rather, it was to have regard to the totality of what was presented to the tribunal whether by way of evidence, submissions, pleadings or otherwise and consider whether, in the light of all that, these points were live: at [38].9 Significantly, the Tribunal had prompted parties to consider the possibility that on an interpretation of the Amended Agreement, the respondent would be obliged to pay a Success Fee in relation to an Opportunity that was embraced by the Consultancy Agreement or Amended Agreement, even if the Opportunity only bore fruit subsequently. The appellant’s second List of Issues therefore raised the issue of whether it was entitled to claim remuneration from the respondent in respect of such an Opportunity. The fundamental point upon which the Tribunal eventually found for the appellant – namely, that various provisions of the Amended Agreement pointed to the Success Fee being payable upon completion of the Opportunity regardless of when that took place – was present in the appellant’s submissions in the Arbitration. The findings of the Tribunal did not involve a new difference outside the scope of parties’ submission to arbitration: at [57]–[59].10 The thrust of the respondent’s challenge on the ground of a breach of natural justice appeared to be the fair hearing rule: that is, according to the respondent, the Tribunal had based its decision on matters not submitted or argued before it. It argued that since parties took the position that certain provisions in the Amended Agreement acted as bars to a claim for Success Fees, the Tribunal incorrectly determined that Success Fees were payable based on a case that the appellant did not advance. However, an arbitral tribunal was entitled to arrive at conclusions that were different from the views adopted by parties, provided that the conclusions were based on evidence that was before the tribunal, and that it consulted the parties where the conclusions might involve a dramatic departure from what had been presented to it: at [69]–[73].11 The nature of the issue was also relevant in determining the extent of opportunity that a party ought to be granted to address the determinative issues. In a situation involving questions of fact, pleadings assumed greater significance in indicating the kind of opportunity that natural justice required to be given. In the present case, however, involving a legal issue of the contractual interpretation of various provisions of the Consultancy Agreement and Amended Agreement, the court was satisfied that parties indeed submitted on this issue, and the general question of the interaction between the payment obligations and the expiry date under the provisions were canvassed before the Tribunal: at [76]–[77].12 Accordingly, the court allowed the appeal: at [85]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
