
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE11 May 2022Case summaryA Steven s/o Paul Raj v Public Prosecutor [2022] SGCA 39Criminal Appeal No. 24 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA dismisses accused’s appeal against his conviction and mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking, as his defence of personal consumption was not established and he had therefore failed to rebut the statutory presumption of trafficking.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In considering the totality of the circumstances to determine whether the appellant had rebutted the presumption of trafficking in s 17 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”), several factors were relevant. However, the key pillar and essential foundation of the consumption defence was the accused’s rate of consumption of the relevant drug. Other factors were secondary. Without credible and consistent evidence to establish his claimed rate of consumption on a balance of probabilities, an accused person who sought to rely on the consumption defence would generally face insuperable difficulties: at [24] and [25].  •  In this regard, the relevant question was not whether the accused’s claimed rate of consumption was possible, in a generic sense, for a notional, unspecified drug consumer, but instead whether the accused had produced credible and consistent evidence of his rate of consumption: at [34]. •  Evidence of the accused’s financial means to purchase the drugs in question for his personal consumption was only one relevant factor, and would only speak to his financial ability to fund his heavy drug consumption if his claimed rate of consumption was itself borne out by the evidence. On its own, it was neither here nor there: at [50].•  In the circumstances of this case, the appellant had failed to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17(c) of the MDA. The court therefore dismissed the appeal, and upheld the appellant’s conviction and the mandatory death sentence imposed by the Judge: at [51].Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellant had ordered two “batu” of diamorphine from his Malaysian drug supplier (“Abang”). He was arrested the next morning when he was on his way home from collecting these drugs. In his possession were, among other things, two packets of granular/powdery substance which contained not less than 35.85g of diamorphine (“the Relevant Drugs”). In addition, a large assortment of empty zip lock bags and four digital weighing scales were found in his flat. 2 The appellant was charged with one charge under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”) of trafficking in a controlled drug, by having in his possession for the purpose of trafficking not less than 35.85g of diamorphine. 3 The appellant did not dispute his possession of the Relevant Drugs or his knowledge that they were diamorphine. Given that the amount of diamorphine exceeded the specified threshold of 2g, the presumption of trafficking in s 17(c) of the MDA applied. The appellant’s only defence was that the Relevant Drugs were meant solely for his own personal consumption (or to be given to his friends occasionally as part of reciprocal arrangements to help each other), not for trafficking to anyone else (“the consumption defence”).4 The trial Judge (“the Judge”) found that, as the appellant had failed to discharge his burden of establishing the consumption defence on a balance of probabilities, the presumption of trafficking under s 17(c) of the MDA was not rebutted. Accordingly, the Judge convicted the appellant of the charge. The Judge imposed the mandatory sentence of death under s 33(1) read with the Second Schedule to the MDA.5 This was the appellant’s appeal against his conviction and sentence. The sole issue before the court on appeal was whether the Judge had erred in finding that the appellant had not established the consumption defence.Decision on appeal6 Where the presumption of trafficking in s 17(c) of the MDA was engaged, the burden was on the appellant to prove on a balance of probabilities that the diamorphine in his possession was not for the purpose of trafficking. The court would look at the totality of the circumstances to determine whether the appellant had rebutted the presumption. Relevant factors included: (a) whether there was credible evidence of the appellant’s rate of drug consumption and the number of days the supply was meant for; (b) the frequency of supply of the drugs; (c) whether the appellant had the financial means to purchase the drugs for himself; and (d) whether the appellant had made a contrary admission in any of his statements that the whole quantity of drugs was for sale. Further, the possession of drug trafficking paraphernalia whose utility was obviously in relation to the preparation of drugs for sale was also relevant as circumstantial evidence of the appellant’s drug trafficking activities: at [22] and [24]. 7 However, the key pillar and essential foundation of the consumption defence was the appellant’s rate of consumption of the relevant drug. Other factors were secondary. Without credible and consistent evidence to establish his claimed rate of consumption on a balance of probabilities, an accused person who sought to rely on the consumption defence would generally face insuperable difficulties: at [25].8 Turning to the facts of the present case, the court first affirmed the Judge’s finding that the appellant had failed to establish his claimed rate of diamorphine consumption (ie, two to three packets of 8g of diamorphine each, amounting to 16g to 24g in total, per day) on a balance of probabilities. There was no consistent or credible evidence to support the appellant’s claimed rate of consumption. Although the appellant’s claimed rate was corroborated by his first long statement, it was undermined by the evidence given by the doctors who examined him at different points, both before and after that statement was recorded. The differences in the appellant’s recorded rates of diamorphine consumption were very substantial, and the consumption rates recorded by the doctors were all significantly lower than the appellant’s claimed consumption rate. The explanations offered by the appellant for the inconsistent consumption rates he provided to the doctors were also unconvincing: at [31], [33] and [35].9 Second, the court affirmed the Judge’s finding that the appellant’s possession of paraphernalia normally associated with drug trafficking activities (such as the empty zip lock bags and weighing scales) undermined his consumption defence. The sheer number of these items found in the appellant’s possession provided objective evidence consistent with the presumption that the Relevant Drugs were for trafficking. Indeed, the appellant had admitted in his first long statement that he used the empty zip lock bags and weighing scales to pack diamorphine for sale to his friends: at [38] and [40].10 Third, the appellant’s consumption defence was further undermined by certain contrary admissions he had made in his statements to the effect that he sold small quantities of diamorphine to his friends on a regular basis. These admissions were consistent with the presumption that the Relevant Drugs were indeed for trafficking: at [41] and [43]. 11 Fourth, the court affirmed the Judge’s finding that the appellant’s explanation for how he came to be in possession of the Relevant Drugs (ie, that he was persuaded by “Abang” to accept two “batu” of diamorphine, instead of one, to avoid disruptions to his diamorphine supply due to the Deepavali festive period) was not persuasive. This explanation was not consistently supported even by the appellant’s own evidence, and appeared to be a mere afterthought. It did not provide a satisfactory explanation for the large amount of the Relevant Drugs found in the appellant’s possession (which was nearly 18 times the amount necessary to engage the presumption of trafficking in s 17(c) of the MDA and more than double the amount needed to cross the threshold for capital punishment in the Second Schedule to the MDA). The sheer amount of the Relevant Drugs thus further undermined the consumption defence by providing additional objective evidence supporting an irresistible inference that the appellant intended to traffic in the Relevant Drugs: at [44] and [46].  12 However, the Prosecution had not provided any basis for interfering with the Judge’s finding that the evidence of the appellant’s financial transactions did not support an inference that the appellant was involved in drug trafficking, given that there was insufficient evidence to attribute the inflow of funds into the appellant’s bank account to drug trafficking: at [49].13 Nevertheless, whether the appellant had the financial means to purchase the Relevant Drugs for his personal consumption was but one relevant factor in the analysis. Viewing the circumstances holistically, and having regard to the other factors above, the evidence led the court to the inexorable conclusion that the appellant had failed to establish his consumption defence on a balance of probabilities. The financial evidence, which was neutral at best, would only speak to the appellant’s financial ability to fund his heavy drug consumption if his claimed rate of consumption was itself borne out by the evidence before the court: at [50].14 The appellant had therefore not provided any basis for the court to disturb the findings of fact made by the Judge, and the Judge’s decision was amply supported by the evidence on record. The court affirmed the Judge’s decision that the appellant had not rebutted the presumption under s 17(c) of the MDA that the Relevant Drugs were in his possession for the purpose of trafficking, and accordingly upheld the appellant’s conviction and the mandatory death sentence imposed by the Judge: at [3] and [51].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
