
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE10 May 2022Case summarySingapore Democratic Party v Attorney-General [2022] SGHC 100 Originating Summons No. 856 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Judge of the Appellate Division Woo Bih Li)Outcome:  The High Court dismisses the appeal by the Singapore Democratic Party (“SDP”) relating to a Correction Direction (“CD”) issued against SDP’s Facebook post under the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (“POFMA”). Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In the present case, there were no special reasons that the starting position in O 28 r 2 of the Rules of Court should be departed from (ie, that all originating summonses shall be heard in chambers unless the court directed otherwise). The fact that an issue was of public interest or raised a constitutional point alone did not constitute special reasons to have an open court hearing: at [26]–[27]•  SDP’s application under s 17 POFMA was rejected as the subject statement identified in the 4 July CD was a false statement of fact. In particular, SDP had communicated this false statement of fact despite knowing that it was false: at [73]–[83]  Background1 This appeal was brought by the SDP under s 17 of the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (“POFMA”) to set aside a Correction Direction (“CD”) issued by the Alternate Authority on the instruction of the Minister for National Development. The CD was issued in relation to a claim made by SDP through a Facebook post dated 3 July 2020 that Dr Cheong Koon Hean (“Dr Cheong”), the HDB chief executive at the time, had made certain representations about Singapore’s present and target population sizes. 2 On 3 July 2020, amidst the ongoing national elections at the time, the SDP published a Facebook post titled “10 million population” (the “SDP Article”). According to the post, “the idea of Singapore increasing its population to 10 million did not originate from the SDP”. In support of SDP’s position, the post then said the following:Also, the HDB chief executive [Dr Cheong] said that Singapore’s population density would increase from 11,000 people per sq km to 13,700 people per sq km between now and 2030. Given our land area, this means that our population would go up to nearly 10 million by 2030. (“the Subject Statement”)3 Immediately after the above excerpt was a hyperlink referring readers to a letter posted to the Straits Times on 20 April 2018 by Mr Cheang Peng Wah (“Mr Cheang’s Forum Letter”), which in turn referred to what Dr Cheong had said in a lecture she delivered on 10 April 2018 in the IPS-Nathan Lecture Series (“the IPS Lecture”). That letter alleged that Dr Cheong had said that Singapore’s population density would increase from 11,000 people per sq km to 13,700 people per sq km in 2030 (“Dr Cheong’s Statement”). It queried whether this meant that as Singapore’s land area was a mere 720 sq km, its population could go up to nearly 10 million by 2030.  4 Parties had referred to a written script of the IPS Lecture. The relevant portion states:3) Deliver Well Managed and Liveable DensityWith a growing population, living density in Singapore will increase from 11,000 persons per square kilometre to 13,700 persons per square kilometre between now and 2030. However we need not fear densification if it is done well. 5 Following the publication of the SDP Article, the Alternate Authority for the Minister issued a CD on 4 July 2020 (“the 4 July CD”) identifying the Subject Statement and requiring SDP to publish a notice which referred readers to a government website laying out the correct facts. The 4 July CD clarified that Dr Cheong had referred to living density and not population density. Living density takes into account only the land available for urban areas, and excludes land used for ports, airports and defence, among others. It was therefore inaccurate and misleading to extrapolate a population size of 10 million by 2030 by applying the living density figure to the total area of Singapore. 6 Accordingly, SDP sought to set aside the 4 July CD under s 17(1) POFMA, asserting that the Subject Statement was a statement of opinion; in the alternative, that the Subject Statement was a true statement of fact. SDP had also sought for the hearing to proceed in open court under Rule 11 of the Supreme Court of Judicature (Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulations) Rules 2019 (“POFMA Rules”).Preliminary issue7 A preliminary issue was whether the hearing should proceed in open court. 8 There were no special reasons that the starting position in O 28 r 2 of the Rules of Court should be departed from (ie, that all originating summonses shall be heard in chambers unless the court directed otherwise). The fact that an issue was of public interest or raised a constitutional point alone did not constitute a special reason to have an open court hearing: [26]–[27].  The approach to s 17 POFMA applications9 The approach to s 17 POFMA applications is set out in The Online Citizen Pte Ltd v AG [2021] 2 SLR 1358 where the Court of Appeal laid out a five-step analytical framework applicable to setting-aside applications under s 17 of the POFMA (“the TOC Framework”). The first step of the TOC Framework was to determine the meaning of the subject statement in question and the second step was to interpret the material targeted by a CD to determine whether it contained the subject statement. The third and fourth steps were to determine if the subject statement was a statement of fact and, if so, whether it was false. The fifth step was to determine if the subject statement had been communicated in Singapore and had been accessed in Singapore. SDP’s argument that the court should determine what Dr Cheong’s Statement meant rather than what the Subject Statement meant was incorrect: at [42] and [47].10 There was no dispute as to what the Subject Statement meant. It meant that  Dr Cheong had said that the population density over the entire land area of Singapore would increase from 11,000 people per sq km to 13,700 people per sq km between the time of Dr Cheong’s Statement to 2030. Given Singapore’s land area, Singapore’s population would increase to nearly 10 million by 2030: at [46]. 11 It was also clear that the SDP Article contained the Subject Statement: at [48].12 SDP argued that the first sentence of the Subject Statement had clearly stated what Dr Cheong had said. The terms “living density” and “population density” were virtually synonymous. Next, the second sentence in the Subject Statement was SDP’s interpretation of Dr Cheong’s Statement. It was a deductive process which rendered the Subject Statement an opinion rather than fact. The court rejected this argument as the SDP Article had opened with the following line: The idea of Singapore increasing its population to 10 million did not originate from the SDP. The entire Subject Statement purported to be a report of what Dr Cheong had said in the IPS Lecture. Hence, both sentences were statements of fact: at [56] and [60].13  The court was of the view that the Subject Statement was false. First, it was telling that SDP chose to steer away from a letter by HDB’s Director (Strategic Planning) Jaffrey Aw published in the Straits Times on 24 April 2018 (“Mr Aw’s Letter”). Mr Aw’s Letter was made in response to Mr Cheang’s Forum Letter and essentially clarified the difference between the concepts of population and living density and that living density takes into account only the land available for urban areas and excludes land used for ports, airports, defence and utilities, among others. That letter also said that it would be inaccurate to extrapolate the population size from the living density figures. SDP had themselves referred to the Mr Aw’s Letter in its application to cancel the 4 July CD, and for this reason (among others), it was not open to SDP’s counsel to suggest that SDP might not have been aware of Mr Aw’s Letter: at [56], [67]–[79]. 14 Second, if one were to apply the initial density in Dr Cheong’s Statement, ie, 11,000 people per sq km to Singapore’s total land area of about 720 sq km, this would yield a figure of 7,920,000 persons at the time of the IPS Lecture in 2018. Singapore’s population at the time was not even 6.9 million. SDP must have known that the density in Dr Cheong’s Statement could not be simply applied over Singapore’s total land area: at [83].15 Lastly, it was not disputed that the Subject Statement had been communicated in Singapore and had been accessed in Singapore: at [92] 16 Accordingly, the appeal was dismissed. SDP had deliberately included the Subject Statement in the SDP Article despite knowing it was false. SDP was ordered to pay costs to the AG: at [97]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
