
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE22 April 2022Case summaryOng Chai Soon v Ong Chai Koon and others [2022] SGCA 36Civil Appeal No 54 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against decision that common intention constructive trust arose over HDB shophouse, and holds that the Housing and Development Act only bars ineligible persons from becoming entitled to an interest in HDB property under a resulting or constructive trust.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Section 51(10) of the Housing and Development Act (Cap 129, 2004 Rev Ed) (“the HDA”), which provided that “[n]o person shall become entitled to any protected property (or any interest in such property) under any resulting trust or constructive trust whensoever created or arising”, only barred ineligible persons from becoming entitled to any interest in HDB property under a resulting or constructive trust (“the Eligibility Interpretation”). The Eligibility Interpretation was supported by a purposive and contextual approach to the provision. The alternative interpretation proposed in Lim Kieuh Huat and another v Lim Teck Leng and another [2020] SGHC 181 – that s 51(10) of the HDA barred all persons (including eligible persons) from becoming entitled to an interest in HDB property under a resulting or constructive trust if they did not already have an entitlement to the property in question (“the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation”) – was rejected: at [3], [52] and [85] to [108]. •  The Eligibility Interpretation should apply equally to s 58(11) of the Housing and Development Act 1959 (2020 Rev Ed) (which replaced s 51(10) of the HDA), such that the provision would bar only ineligible persons from holding an interest in HDB property under a resulting or constructive trust. The amendments in s 58(11) had not altered the substantive effect of s 51(10) of the HDA: at [111] and [113].Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellant and the five respondents were siblings. The appellant was the sole registered owner of a two-storey Housing & Development Board (“HDB”) shophouse (“the Property”). The respondents commenced proceedings against the appellant, seeking (among other things) an order that the Property be sold and the sale proceeds divided equally among the six siblings. The respondents claimed that the Property was a family asset held by the appellant on a common intention constructive trust for each of the siblings, who were entitled to equal beneficial shares.2 The High Court judge below (“the Judge”) found that the Property and its sale proceeds were subject to a common intention constructive trust in favour of the siblings as beneficial owners in six equal shares. The Judge found that, although there was no direct evidence that the siblings and their mother had collectively agreed that the Property should be held by the appellant on trust for the siblings at the time when the HDB offered the Property for sale to the appellant, there was sufficient evidence which showed that the Property was intended to be acquired as a family asset for the family as a whole. Furthermore, there was a common intention that the Property would eventually be sold and the sale proceeds shared equally to assist in the siblings’ retirement. 3 The Judge went on to consider the effect of s 51(10) of the Housing and Development Act (Cap 129, 2004 Rev Ed) (“the HDA”), which provides that “[n]o person shall become entitled to any protected property (or any interest in such property) under any resulting trust or constructive trust whensoever created or arising”. The proper interpretation of this provision and its predecessors had been considered on numerous occasions, and since Tan Chui Lian v Neo Liew Eng [2007] 1 SLR(R) 265, the consistent position adopted in the case law had been that the provision only bars ineligible persons from becoming entitled to any interest in HDB property under a resulting or constructive trust (“the Eligibility Interpretation”). In Lim Kieuh Huat and another v Lim Teck Leng and another [2020] SGHC 181 (“Lim Kieuh Huat (HC)”), however, a different interpretation had been proposed – that s 51(10) of the HDA bars all persons (including eligible persons) from becoming entitled to an interest in HDB property under a resulting or constructive trust if they do not already have an entitlement to the property in question (“the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation”). The Judge expressed a tentative preference for the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation. Applying that interpretation, the Judge held that s 51(10) of the HDA barred the respondents from becoming entitled to a beneficial interest in the Property under the common intention constructive trust (or any resulting trust) as they were not registered owners of the Property. 4 Nevertheless, the Judge took the view that an “equity” arose in the respondents’ favour in relation to the Property which compelled the appellant to act in a manner consistent with the parties’ common intention that they had equal beneficial shares in the Property and its sale proceeds. To satisfy that equity, the Judge considered it necessary and expedient to order that the Property be sold by the appellant within 12 months and that the net sale proceeds be divided among the Ong siblings in equal one-sixth shares.Decision on appealCommon intention constructive trust5 The Judge found that the parties had shared a common intention to acquire the Property as an income-generating family asset, which would eventually be sold and the sale proceeds shared equally to provide a “retirement fund” for each of them. The Judge concluded that an assessment of the totality of the evidence supported the respondents’ case that the Property and its sale proceeds were subject to a common intention constructive trust where the true beneficial owners were the respondents and the appellant in six equal shares. The appellant had provided no basis for disturbing the Judge’s findings and conclusion on this point, which were arrived at after a thorough consideration of the facts and the parties’ evidence: at [30] to [32].6 The court rejected the appellant’s submission that the respondents’ inability to show that they had made direct financial contributions to the purchase price of the Property was fatal to their common intention constructive trust claim. On the facts, the use of earnings from a business which belonged to all the siblings in equal shares to pay the mortgage instalments for the Property sufficed to show the respondents’ direct financial contribution to the purchase of the Property. Furthermore, given that neither the appellant nor the respondents could be said to have made any direct financial contributions towards the purchase price of the Property in the typical manner, the Judge was justified in inferring from the totality of the evidence that the parties’ common intention was for each of them to have an equal beneficial share in the Property and its sale proceeds: at [33] to [36].7 There was sufficient detrimental reliance by the respondents to found their common intention constructive trust claim. Not only had the respondents taken meagre salaries from the business for 28 years and performed carpentry work for free, they had also consented to the earnings from the business (which belonged beneficially to all of them) being used to pay the mortgage instalments for the Property. Given the conceptual differences between proprietary estoppel and common intention constructive trusts, the Judge’s observation that there was no detrimental reliance for the purposes of proprietary estoppel did not necessarily mean that there was no detrimental reliance for the purposes of the common intention constructive trust: at [39] to [41]. Doctrine of laches8 There was no basis for the doctrine of laches to bar the respondents’ claim. Around late 2017 to early 2018, the appellant began to assert sole beneficial ownership of the Property and began to take active steps to exclude the respondents from the Property. The proceedings in the suit were commenced by the respondents several months later, on 27 December 2018. In these circumstances, it could not be said that there had been a substantial lapse of time, and these facts provided a reasonable explanation for the respondents asserting their beneficial interest in the Property only after the parties’ mother had passed on. Further, there were no circumstances that would make it practically unjust for the respondents to be granted a remedy, particularly because the parties’ mother was not the only witness who could give evidence on the parties’ common intention regarding the Property: at [45] to [49].Section 51(10) of the HDA9 Having considered the language of s 51(10) of the HDA, its legislative history and evolution, as well as the broader contextual and historical developments in which it had to be situated, the court endorsed the Eligibility Interpretation and rejected the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation proposed in Lim Kieuh Huat (HC): at [3].10 While the origin of ss 51(8)–51(10) of the HDA has tended to be traced back to s 44(4) of the Housing and Development Act (Cap 271, 1970 Rev Ed), the very first iteration of what later became s 51(9) of the HDA was s 36E(4) of the Housing and Development Ordinance 1959 (No 11 of 1959), which was introduced in 1964 by the Housing and Development (Amendment) Ordinance 1964 (No 10 of 1964): at [54].11 On a purposive interpretation of s 51(10) of the HDA, it was clear that the Eligibility Interpretation should be adopted. Central to the discomfort with the Eligibility Interpretation in Lim Kieuh Huat (HC) and the Judge’s decision was the concern that it strained the natural and ordinary meaning of the words of s 51(10). However, on an ordinary reading of the word “entitled”, a person might be said to “become entitled” to an interest which he could not have obtained before (due to his or her ineligibility to obtain such an interest), or might “become entitled” to an interest which he did not have before. Reading the requirement of eligibility into s 51(10) would therefore not stretch its words beyond their natural and ordinary meaning. The view that the Eligibility Interpretation was a plausible interpretation of s 51(10) was further supported by the broader statutory scheme. The word “entitled” was used in several other HDA provisions without carrying the meaning of “having an interest in property” or “acquiring an interest in property”, and indeed was used in a sense much more closely correlated with the concept of eligibility: at [85] and [87] to [89].12 The various Parliamentary statements that had been made over the years revealed that the specific legislative intent behind s 51(10) of the HDA was to prevent persons who were ineligible to own HDB flats from becoming entitled to such property under a resulting or constructive trust, when such persons would not have been permitted to own an HDB flat directly or outright – and not to prevent all persons without a pre-existing interest from doing so. This was consistent with the language of s 51(10) and its statutory context, as well as the observations made by the courts over the years. More holistically, a consideration of the broader contextual developments and legislative history of s 51 of the HDA revealed that Parliament’s consistent policy concern, reiterated on numerous occasions since the inception of the Home Ownership Scheme in 1964, was to prevent the abuse of the privilege of subsidised public housing by those who, under the prevailing regulatory schemes, were ineligible to enjoy the benefits of such subsidised public housing, and yet might nevertheless become entitled to an interest in such property under a trust: at [102]. 13 On this view of Parliament’s intention behind s 51(10) of the HDA, it was evident that the Eligibility Interpretation better furthered its legislative purpose. In contrast, by applying to all persons regardless of eligibility, the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation was over-inclusive, depriving even eligible beneficial owners from asserting their interests in HDB property even where they had not purported to “create” the trust through some connivance or intentional nominee arrangement which would be caught by ss 51(8) and 51(9) of the HDA. Further, the practical effect of the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation was that s 51(10) would allow a claim to a resulting or constructive trust over an HDB property only in cases where both parties were already registered owners of the property under a joint tenancy or tenancy in common, and one party sought to argue that their respective beneficial shares of the property should not follow the proportions of their legal shares. There was no basis in the legislative purpose of s 51(10) for circumscribing the operation of resulting or constructive trusts over HDB property this narrowly: at [103], [106] and [107].14 In the proceedings below, there had been no dispute regarding the respondents’ eligibility to own the Property. There was no basis for disturbing the Judge’s factual finding that the respondents were eligible persons. Thus, applying the Eligibility Interpretation, s 51(10) of the HDA did not bar the respondents’ common intention constructive trust claim. The Judge’s decision and order of sale were affirmed on this basis: at [114], [115] and [117].15 However, the court had considerable reservations about the basis on which the Judge had ordered the appellant to sell the Property and divide the net sale proceeds equally among the siblings under the Pre-Existing Interest Interpretation. There was no legal basis for the Judge to find that the parties’ common intention gave rise to a freestanding equity sufficient to found such an order of sale. This was not a recognised equitable right, obligation or doctrine, and applying the concept of an “equity” in this manner would stretch the existing jurisprudence too far: at [120] and [124].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
