
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 April 2022Case summaryPannir Selvam a/l Pranthaman v Attorney-General [2022] SGCA 35Civil Appeal No. 33 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Grounds of Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome: On 26 November 2021, the Court of Appeal (“the Court”) dismissed Mr Pannir Selvam’s (“the Appellant”) appeal against the High Court’s decision not to grant leave to commence judicial review against various decisions taken by the Attorney-General/Public Prosecutor (referred to in this summary as “the AG”), the Singapore Prison Service (“the “SPS”), and the Cabinet. The Court now gives the full grounds of its decision.Pertinent and significant points of the grounds of decisionThe Court clarified the meaning of “substantively assist” in s 33B(2)(b) of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“MDA”). In essence, the Court determined that, in order to qualify for a Certificate of Substantive Assistance (“CSA”), an accused person must provide information which is “used” by the Central Narcotics Bureau (“CNB”) in some way. It is not sufficient for the information merely to be reliable and of inherent practical value. The facts1 On 2 May 2017, the Appellant was convicted on a capital charge of importing no less than 51.48g of diamorphine into Singapore. His appeal against his conviction and sentence was dismissed on 9 February 2018. 2 In September 2014, before the Appellant was tried in the High Court, he provided the CNB with information relating to the person to whom he was supposed to deliver the drugs he had imported into Singapore. This person was identified as one “Jimmy”. The AG, however, did not grant the Appellant a CSA under s 33B(2)(b) of the MDA. After his appeal against conviction and sentence was dismissed in 2018, the Appellant provided further information relating to one “Anand”, who had allegedly instructed him to transport the drugs into Singapore. No CSA was, however, issued to the Appellant on the basis of such further information.3 After the Appellant’s appeal against conviction and sentence was dismissed, he also submitted petitions for clemency to the President under Art 22P(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (1985 Rev Ed, 1999 Reprint). Upon the advice of the Cabinet (“the Cabinet’s Advice”), the President declined to grant clemency, and the Appellant was notified of her decision on 17 May 2019. He was also told that he would be executed on 24 May 2019. 4 On 21 May 2019, the Appellant sought a stay of execution on the basis that he intended to bring a judicial review challenge against the President’s rejection of his petitions for clemency and the AG’s decision not to issue him a CSA (“the Application”). The stay was granted on 23 May 2019 to allow the Appellant to prepare his case. 5 In the course of preparation of his case, on 10 June 2019, the Appellant’s solicitors applied on SPS’ website to interview one “Zamri”. Zamri was an inmate in Changi prison who had been convicted on a capital charge, and who was awaiting execution. The AGC (on behalf of the SPS) declined to accede to the request, and asked that the Appellant disclose “full particulars” as to why any evidence Zamri could provide would be relevant to the Application. The Appellant’s solicitors initially declined to do so on the basis that such information was privileged. The AGC refuted the existence of any privilege.6 Despite their earlier position, on 19 June 2019, the Appellant’s solicitors – with his authorisation – informed the AGC that “Zamri” was the person he had identified as “Jimmy” in his 2014 statements to the CNB, and he believed that such information led to Zamri’s arrest. In essence, the Appellant’s position was that he had “substantively assisted” the CNB in Zamri’s (or “Jimmy’s”) arrest. On 20 June 2019, the AGC again declined to accede to the Appellant’s request to interview Zamri.7 On 24 June 2019, the Appellant then filed the Application, and he sought by this to challenge three decisions:a. First, the AG’s decision not to issue him a CSA, on three bases: i. That it was procedurally improper for the AG not to provide him with a Mandatory Death Penalty Notice informing him of the possibility that he could avoid the death penalty by providing substantive assistance (“MDP Notice”); ii. That the sitting AG should have been the one to decide whether to issue a CSA to the Appellant; and iii. That it was illegal and/or irrational for the AG not to issue him a CSA because he did in fact substantively assist the CNB. b. Second, the SPS’ refusal to allow him to interview Zamri, on the basis that it was irrational, procedurally improper, and motivated by an improper purpose. c. Third, the Cabinet’s Advice, on the basis that it failed to take into account the fact that he had provided substantive assistance to the CNB. 8 On 25 June 2019, the AGC informed the Appellant’s solicitors that it no longer had objections to them interviewing Zamri. The Appellant’s solicitors therefore interviewed him on 26 and 28 June 2019. 9 On 11 February 2020, the Application was heard by the High Court, and, on the next day, it was dismissed. The Appellant filed the present appeal on 25 February, and on 24 April, the High Court judge released the full grounds of his decision. The Court of Appeal first heard the Appellant on 9 March 2021 and reserved judgment. The Appellant and the AG were subsequently granted leave to file further affidavits and written submissions, and, on 26 November 2021, the Court of Appeal heard the appeal again. On the same day, the appeal was dismissed with brief grounds.Issues before the Court of Appeal10 Before the Court of Appeal were issues relating to the 3 decisions which the Appellant challenged in the Application:a. As regards the AG’s decision not to issue the Appellant a CSA, there were five issues (“Issues #1A–E”): i. Whether the Application was time-barred; ii. Whether the Appellant had been served the MDP Notice; iii. Whether the sitting AG was obliged to determine the issuance of a CSA; iv. What the test was for determining “substantive assistance”; and v. Whether the Appellant had in fact substantively assisted the CNB.b. As regards the SPS’ initial refusal to allow the Appellant to interview Zamri, the issue was whether this gave rise to a reasonable suspicion that the SPS had acted irrationally or for an improper purpose (“Issue #2”).c. As to the Cabinet’s Advice to the President, the issue was whether the Cabinet failed to consider the fact that the Appellant provided substantive assistance to the CNB (“Issue #3”).11 The Appellant also raised a preliminary issue regarding the AG’s entitlement to participate in these proceedings (“Preliminary Issue”).Preliminary Issue: Whether the AG was entitled to participate in the proceedings12 The Court restated that the AG was entitled to participate at the leave stage of judicial review proceedings against public bodies. This position was supported both by authority and principle. The AG’s participation served to assist the court in identifying groundless or hopeless cases: at [23] to [25]. Issue #1A: Whether the Application against the AG was time-barred13 The Application was not time-barred even though it was brought almost 2 years after the AG’s decision not to issue the Appellant a CSA. This was because during these 2 years, the Appellant had been pursuing alternative means of preventing his execution. This included his appeal against conviction and sentence, his attempts at providing further assistance to the CNB, and his sending of representations to the AGC. These efforts satisfactorily accounted for the delay: at [36] to [42]. Issue #1B: Whether a sitting AG must determine the issuance of a CSA14 In essence, the Appellant had submitted that the AG in office at the time of an accused person’s conviction should be the one to determine whether to issue a CSA based on the most up-to-date materials. The Court rejected this argument on the basis that there was nothing in the MDA or the case law which specifically imposed such a requirement on the sitting AG. In any event, there was no evidence in this case that there was any new material which warranted the sitting AG to review his predecessor’s decision not to grant the Appellant a CSA: at [45] to [47].  Issue #1C: Whether the Appellant was served the MDP Notice15 The Court determined that the Appellant had been served the MDP Notice. Further, even assuming that the notice had not been served, the Appellant was not prejudiced since it was not his position that he withheld information from the CNB. On the contrary, it was his case that he had disclosed all the information he had, and, that this constituted substantive assistance under s 33B(2)(b) of the MDA: at [51].Issue #1D: Meaning of “substantively assisted” under s 33B(2)(b) of the MDA16 The Court held that, in order for an accused person to “substantively assist” the CNB in disrupting drug trafficking activities within the meaning of s 33B(2)(b) of the MDA, the information provided by the accused person must have “enhanced the operational effectiveness of the CNB”. At a minimum, the information must have been used by the CNB in some way. It was not sufficient for the information merely to be reliable and of inherent practical value. The “use” of information was to be given a broad meaning, and, for example, could even extend to the making of wider strategic decisions by the CNB as to when to launch enforcement action. However, the Court considered that it was not desirable to prescribe an exhaustive definition of “use” as this was ultimately an operational question which turned on the parameters and demands of each case: at [87] to [89].Issue #1E: Whether the Appellant “substantively assisted” the CNB17 CNB officers gave evidence that the information provided by the Appellant on “Jimmy” (ie, Zamri) was not useful because the CNB already possessed such information. The information provided by the Appellant was also not required to corroborate or verify the CNB’s own information. The Appellant relied on evidence by Zamri to dispute this, but the Court was not persuaded by Zamri’s rebuttals. Accordingly, the Court held that the Appellant’s information did not “substantively assist” the CNB: at [96] to [99].18 The Appellant had little evidence to show that the information he provided regarding “Anand” was true or helpful to the CNB. In opposition, a CNB officer gave evidence on behalf of the AG that such information was not useful. Therefore, the Court held that there was no factual basis for the Appellant’s contention that the AG’s decision not to issue him a CSA on this basis was illegal or irrational: at [101] to [103]. Issue #2: Whether the SPS’ refusal to allow the interview could be impugned19 The Appellant was eventually allowed to interview Zamri on 26 and 28 June 2019. As such, the question of whether the SPS’ initial refusal to allow such interview could be impugned, was academic. In any event, the Court observed that this initial refusal did not give rise to a reasonable suspicion that the SPS had acted with an improper purpose as suggested by the Appellant. It was understandable that the AGC (on behalf of the SPS) felt the need to inquire into the purpose of the proposed interview. Even if the inquiry was misguided, the fact of the inquiry alone was not sufficient to raise the reasonable suspicion the Appellate suggested: at [29] and [30].20 Notwithstanding its decision, the Court clarified that where an application is made (by a person involved in litigation against the State) to interview an inmate, once the purpose of the interview has been stated, and, if the purpose appears reasonable on its face, the AGC and/or SPS is not entitled to seek disclosure of further information of a privileged nature. This includes information disclosed by the person to his solicitors for the purposes of seeking legal advice and in preparation for litigation. If, however, the AGC and/or SPS requires further clarification before acceding to an interview request, a “Chinese wall” should be erected between the officers receiving the privileged information and the officers in AGC who may represent the State in the eventual litigation: at [31] to [34]. Issue #3: Whether the Cabinet’s Advice could be impugned21 The Appellant’s case against the Cabinet was that it had failed to take into account his substantive assistance to the CNB in advising the President not to commute his death sentence. As the Court found that the Appellant had not substantively assisted the CNB, the Cabinet’s Advice could not be impugned: at [105] and [106]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
