
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 November 2023Case summaryIvanishvili, Bidzina and others v Credit Suisse Trust Ltd [2023] SGHC(I) 19Singapore International Commercial Court – Suit No 4 of 2021 (Summons No 33 of 2023)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Singapore International Commercial Court (delivered by Patricia Bergin IJ):Outcome: The Court orders a stay of execution of judgments, on the condition that the defendant pays into Court of the entire judgment sum, costs, and interest.Pertinent and significant points of the Court’s judgment•  In determining whether a form of security is adequate, it is important to refer to the characteristics of the security and how they apply to the facts of the case at hand: at [9].Background1 Mr Bidzina Ivanishvili, his wife, and three of their children are the plaintiffs in the suit (collectively, “the plaintiffs”). Credit Suisse Trust Limited (“the defendant”) is the defendant in the suit.2 On 26 May 2023, the Court allowed the plaintiffs’ claims against the defendant, finding that the defendant was in breach of its duties as trustee as at 30 March 2008 (see Ivanishvili, Bidzina and others v Credit Suisse Trust [2023] SGHC(I) 9 (the “Merits Judgment”)). On 19 September 2023, the Court ordered the defendant to pay the plaintiffs compensation of US$742.73m and costs of S$7,298,893.43 plus interest (see Ivanishvili, Bidzina and others v Credit Suisse Trust [2023] SGHC(I) 14 (the “Quantum Judgment”)). The defendant applied for a stay of execution of both the Merits Judgment and the Quantum Judgment pending its appeal against both decisions. 3 The plaintiffs were, in principle, prepared to consent to a stay of execution of the judgments if the defendant paid into Court the judgment sum, costs and interest. The defendant’s position was that, instead of making payment into Court, it could furnish security in the form of an on-demand bank guarantee from UBS AG (“UBS”) or, alternatively, make payment into an escrow account. The defendant argued that its proposals provided adequate security for the plaintiffs and that there was no need for payment to be made into Court.Decision4 In determining whether a form of security is adequate, it is important to refer to the characteristics of the security and how they apply to the facts of the case at hand: at [9].5 This case was an example of extremely adversarial litigation that spanned many years, in which the defendant fought tooth and nail to resist the plaintiffs’ claims. There was a mutual lack of trust between parties and they were unable to agree on matters in a prompt fashion. Furthermore, notwithstanding that the plaintiffs had applied for the distribution of their funds held by the defendant more than a year prior, the funds still remained undistributed: at [10]–[15].6 The bank guarantee proposed by the defendant contained a dispute resolution mechanism which required parties to submit disputes to arbitration. The plaintiffs had asked that the defendant secure from UBS an undertaking that it would not refuse payment under the guarantee for anything other than failure to comply with the required documentation, but the defendant was unable to secure this undertaking. Having to move into an arbitration mode with a third party in the event of a dispute, after spending years securing a judgment, was an unsatisfactory outcome for the plaintiffs: at [18]–[20].7 The uncertainties identified by the plaintiffs and the prospect of another 30 days before the bank guarantee could be prepared convinced the court that such security was not adequate in the circumstances of this case: at [22]–[23].8 As for the defendant’s alternative case that the monies should be held in an escrow account, there was no evidence of the nature of the escrow or account, or that any escrow agent had been approached: at [25].9 If monies were paid into Court, the successful party on appeal would be in a position to receive or recover their monies absolutely, almost immediately and without risk of non-recovery: at [28].10 The defendant claimed that it would suffer the prospect of not being able to earn a higher interest rate in the commercial field if the monies were paid into Court rather than placed in an escrow account. Notwithstanding that, the Court was not satisfied that this was a matter that would justify payment into an escrow account rather than into Court. In the circumstances, the money was to be paid into Court: at [31]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
