
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 April 2022Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Nalpon, Zero Geraldo Mario [2022] SGHC 81Court of Three Judges – Originating Summons No 4 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Three Judges (delivered by Justice Chao Hick Tin):Outcome: C3J orders that lawyer be suspended from practice for 15 months for Facebook publications relating to pending court proceedings and wilful non-compliance with costs order coupled with attempts to garner public support. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Section 89(4) of the Legal Profession Act (Cap 161, 2009 Rev Ed) (“the LPA”) – which allowed a Disciplinary Tribunal to prefer additional charges against regulated legal practitioners if further misconduct on their part subsequently came to light – was inapplicable to proceedings commenced by a complaint made by the AG under s 85(3)(b) of the LPA (which allowed complaints referred by specified office holders to bypass the usual procedure of an inquiry by an Inquiry Committee): at [34] and [35].•  Non-compliance with a costs order could not, in and of itself, amount to misconduct for the purposes of a disciplinary charge. However, the position was different where the legal practitioner’s wilful non-compliance was accompanied by acts taken with the aim of garnering public support for that non-compliance. Conduct that sought to publicly justify non-compliance with an order of court on spurious grounds was plainly misconduct unbefitting an advocate and solicitor within s 83(2)(h) of the LPA: at [59].Background and material facts1 Mr Zero Geraldo Mario Nalpon (“Mr Nalpon”), an advocate and solicitor, represented an accused person who was convicted on a drug consumption charge by a District Judge (“the DJ”). On 12 September 2018, the accused filed an appeal against his conviction and sentence. On several occasions in February 2019, Mr Nalpon published material relating to these Magistrate’s Appeal (“MA”) proceedings on a “Public” Facebook group named “Law Society versus Zero Nalpon” (“the Facebook Group”). After the Attorney-General (“the AG”) was granted leave to issue a non-publication direction against Mr Nalpon, he removed these posts on 23 February 2019. Further, pursuant to a costs order made on 29 April 2019 (“the Costs Order”), Mr Nalpon was ordered to pay the AG’s costs fixed at $2,600 (“the Costs”). However, Mr Nalpon argued that he could not be compelled to pay costs to the AGC because the Costs were ordered to be paid to the AG, whereas the AGC was a separate entity.2 On 24 May 2019, the High Court Judge (“the Judge”) dismissed the MA but found that the DJ had substantially reproduced the Prosecution’s submissions in his Grounds of Decision (“the DJGD”). On the same day, Mr Nalpon re-published his February 2019 posts on the Facebook Group. 3 On 17 and 20 June 2019, pursuant to s 85(3)(b) of the LPA, two complaints against Mr Nalpon were lodged with the Law Society of Singapore (“the Law Society”). Each Complaint stated that the “Attorney-General” referred the complaint to the Law Society and requested for the matter to be referred to a Disciplinary Tribunal, and both Complaints were signed off by the Chief Prosecutor of the AGC “for and on behalf of the Attorney-General”. 4 The Law Society initially proceeded on charges based on Mr Nalpon’s publication of material concerning the MA proceedings (“the First Charge”) and his failure to comply with the Costs Order and related publications (“the Second Charge”). Subsequently, the Disciplinary Tribunal which was convened to investigate the complaints against Mr Nalpon (“the DT”) granted the Law Society leave to amend its Statement of Case to prefer additional charges against Mr Nalpon based on his further publications relating to the DT proceedings (“the Third and Fourth Charges”).5 The DT found Mr Nalpon guilty on all four charges and determined that cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action existed. The Law Society applied for an order that Mr Nalpon be punished under s 83(1) of the LPA. After this application was made, but before the hearing, Mr Nalpon made payment of the Costs by means of an un-crossed cheque in favour of “The Attorney-General” on 29 December 2021. However, Mr Nalpon maintained that he could only make payment to the AG, and did not cross the cheque “as a gesture of goodwill”.The court’s decisionWhether the proceedings were void for non-compliance with s 85(3)(b) of the LPA6 The court rejected Mr Nalpon’s contention that the disciplinary proceedings against him were void because the Complaints were not filed by the AG personally in compliance with s 85(3)(b) of the LPA. A distinction should be drawn between the exercise of a power and the signification of the exercise of that power. It was clear that the AG’s statutory powers under s 85(3)(b) were in fact duly exercised by the AG himself, and were not delegated or devolved to another officer: at [22], [23] and [25].7 Even if the principle set out in Carltona Ltd v Commissioners of Works [1943] 2 All ER 560 (“the Carltona principle”) was extended to the powers and functions of the AG, s 85(3)(b) of the LPA conferred on a very select group of office holders a power of a relatively exceptional nature, which accorded to their complaints a statutory “shortcut” that bypassed the usual procedure of an inquiry by an Inquiry Committee before a complaint could come before a Disciplinary Tribunal. The court was therefore not persuaded that the Carltona principle would permit the devolution of the AG’s powers under s 85(3)(b), although it left this question open for determination in a future case where it was more directly in issue: at [28] and [29].Whether the DT was entitled to investigate and make determinations in respect of the Third and Fourth Charges 8 The DT was, however, not empowered to investigate and make determinations in respect of the Third and Fourth Charges. Section 89(4) of the LPA, on which the DT and the Law Society relied, was inapplicable to proceedings commenced under s 85(3)(b) of the LPA. The additional jurisdiction of the DT under s 89(4) would have applied if the complaint had been made in the typical manner under s 85(1) of the LPA, where the DT had been appointed following the Council’s determination under s 87 (after considering the report of the Inquiry Committee) that there should be a formal investigation. The position was different where disciplinary proceedings were commenced pursuant to a complaint made by the AG under s 85(3)(b) of the LPA, which allowed complaints referred by specified office holders to bypass the usual procedure of an inquiry by an Inquiry Committee: at [32], [34] and [35]. 9 The DT, which had been constituted to hear the First and Second Charges, therefore lacked the jurisdiction to make determinations on the Third and Fourth Charges, and its findings in respect of the Third and Fourth Charges should be set aside: at [38].Whether due cause had been shown in relation to the First Charge 10 Mr Nalpon’s publication of his post on the Facebook Group on 11 February 2019 – which stated that he had discovered that the DJ had plagiarised a substantial portion of the Prosecution’s submissions, and attached a copy of his complaint to the Chief Justice against the DJ – had prejudged issues in pending court proceedings within the first limb of s 3(b)(i) of the Administration of Justice (Protection) Act 2016 (Act 19 of 2016) (“the AJPA”). At the time of this post, the extent of the DJ’s judicial copying, as well as the effect of this judicial copying on the DJGD – and consequently, the weight to be placed on the DJ’s decision on the accused’s conviction and sentence – were issues which had yet to be adjudicated by the Judge in the pending MA proceedings: at [45], [47] and [49]. 11 Such published views posed a real risk of prejudice to or interference with the pending MA proceedings within the second limb of s 3(b)(i) of the AJPA, as they were posted on the Facebook Group (a “Public” group with around 579 members in February 2019), and the complaint attached to the post specifically identified the DJ and the case number of the pending MA: at [50] and [51].12 The defence in s 16(1) of the AJPA was unavailable to Mr Nalpon. First, s 16(1) provided a defence only to scandalising contempt under s 3(1)(a) of the AJPA, and not to sub judice contempt under s 3(1)(b). Second, s 16(1) only applied to the making of a report to the Chief Justice, and not to the further publication of that report: at [54].13 In the circumstances, Mr Nalpon was guilty of such a breach of r 13(6)(a) of the Legal Profession (Professional Conduct) Rules 2015 (“the PCR”) as amounted to “improper conduct … as an advocate and solicitor”, as well as conduct that was “grossly improper”, within s 83(2)(b) of the LPA. Due cause was made out in respect of the First Charge: at [55].  Whether due cause had been shown in relation to the Second Charge  14 Non-compliance with a costs order could not, in and of itself, amount to misconduct for the purposes of a disciplinary charge. However, the position took on a different complexion where the legal practitioner’s wilful non-compliance with the order was accompanied by acts taken with the aim of garnering public support for that non-compliance. In this regard, the legal practitioner’s subjective state of mind could not only be gleaned from his own account of his motivations, but could also be inferred from the objective circumstances and the nature of the relevant conduct. Conduct that sought to publicly justify non-compliance with an order of court on spurious grounds was plainly misconduct unbefitting an advocate and solicitor within s 83(2)(h) of the LPA: at [59].15 Mr Nalpon’s non-payment of the Costs in the present case fell well within this description. Payments made to the AG should rightly be made into the bank account maintained by the AG, and the AG maintained the bank account used in the discharge of his official duties under the name of “Attorney-General’s Chambers”. This was clearly explained to Mr Nalpon by the AGC, yet he insisted on maintaining his position that there was no legal basis or legal provision which required that his cheque in payment of the Costs should be made payable to the “Attorney-General’s Chambers” instead of “the Attorney-General”. Further, what rendered Mr Nalpon’s conduct beyond the pale was the series of publications he had made on the Facebook Group regarding the Costs Order, which contained the misleading and false allegation that the AGC had requested for his payment to be made to a “separate entity”, and which were transparent attempts to garner public support for his continued disobedience of the Costs Order: at [59] and [61].16 The fact that the Costs were eventually paid in full did not go far in ameliorating the seriousness of Mr Nalpon’s conduct, because what made his conduct unacceptable was his deliberate non-payment coupled with his attempts to garner public support for his disobedience. In any event, the eventual payment of the Costs was made in response to a final demand issued by the AGC more than two years and seven months after the Costs Order was made, and was not prompted by Mr Nalpon’s acknowledgment of the error in his position. There was also no evidence of Mr Nalpon having made any attempt to correct or clarify his publications on the Facebook Group: at [62].17 In the circumstances, Mr Nalpon’s conduct in respect of the Costs Order was plainly misconduct falling within s 83(2)(h) of the LPA, and due cause was made out in respect of the Second Charge: at [63].The appropriate sanction18 Cases involving grossly improper conduct without dishonesty or deceit would generally attract a monetary penalty, but the presence of aggravating factors might justify the imposition of more severe sanctions. Various aggravating factors were present in this case. First, the blatant nature of Mr Nalpon’s misconduct warranted a period of suspension. Second, Mr Nalpon was a senior practitioner of 26 years’ standing. Third, Mr Nalpon had broadly similar disciplinary antecedents which could be taken into account. Mr Nalpon’s conduct before the DT and the court also revealed a total absence of remorse and demonstrated his continued intransigence: at [66] to [68]. 19 In the circumstances, a 15-month suspension from practice under s 83(1)(b) of the LPA was appropriate for the First and Second Charges: at [65] and [69].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
