
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE12 April 2022Case summaryWei Fengpin v Raymond Low Tuck Loong and others [2022] SGCA 32Civil Appeal No 63 of 2021 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Steven Chong JCA):Outcome: CoA allows appeal and grants a buyout order for shares of the minority shareholder in a company that had already been wound up. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The Court of Appeal observed that the court can order a buyout notwithstanding the supervening insolvency of a company.•  The Court of Appeal found that there is no strict requirement in law for share valuations to be carried out on the basis of fully audited accounts. While having fully audited accounts will no doubt aid the valuation exercise, the lack thereof in itself should not preclude a buyout order.•  The Court of Appeal observed that the remedies under s 216(2) of the Companies Act should be directed towards the wronged shareholder and not the company.•  The Court of Appeal observed that it should not matter whether the purchase price was paid to another outgoing shareholder or the remaining majority shareholder save for a situation where the purchase price was paid with a premium which cannot be readily explained or justified.1 This was an appeal by the appellant (“Wei”) against the decision of the High court judge (“the Judge”) not to grant a buyout order despite finding that oppression was made out under s 216 of the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (“Companies Act”). 2 The Judge found a litany of oppressive acts by the majority shareholders (“Low” and “Sim”) against the minority shareholder, Wei. The Judge held that a buyout of Wei’s shares in the Company could in principle be made against Low and Sim notwithstanding the supervening insolvency of the Company. However, the Judge did not grant a buyout order. The key issues on appeal concerned the propriety of a buyout order and the appropriate valuation date.Background to the appeal3 Lateral Solutions Pte Ltd (“the Company”) was a company that sourced and supplied polymer parts (“the Parts”) to Apple Inc. Prior to December 2014, Low, Sim, and one Edwin Seah (“Seah”) were directors and shareholders of the Company. 4 By around 2014, the Company’s suppliers of the Parts included three companies in which Wei had a substantial interest. In December 2014, Wei bought Seah’s shares in the Company for US$5m and was registered as a shareholder and director in January 2015.5 In March 2017, Wei commenced an action under s 216 of the Companies Act against Low and Sim, claiming that they had acted in a manner that was unfair, oppressive or prejudicial to him. About four months before the trial, Low and Sim applied to wind up the Company on the basis that the Company was insolvent and was unable to pay its debts. Wei did not object to the application and the Company was wound up before the trial took place.6 The Judge found that Low and Sim had conducted the affairs of the Company in a manner that was oppressive to Wei, and the acts which they had caused the Company to take also unfairly discriminated against or were prejudicial to Wei. The oppressive acts included:a. The payment of dividends and large bonuses by Low and Sim to themselves in breach of the Company’s Articles and without Wei’s knowledge and consent.b. The withholding of the Company’s financial information and the refusal to call board meetings despite having the obligation to do so.c. The failure to provide relevant financial information to Wei to determine the fair value of his shares when they offered to buyout Wei’s shares.d. The omission to audit the Company’s accounts from Financial Year (“FY”) 2015, file annual returns from FY2014 and call Annual General Meetings to deal with the Company’s accounts, in order to conceal the true state of affairs of the Company from Wei.e. The diversion of a corporate opportunity by Low.f. The failure to disclose to Wei related-party transactions and to involve him in key management decisions pertaining to such transactions.7 The Judge found that a buyout order can be made notwithstanding the supervening insolvency of the Company. However, the Judge did not make a buyout order and cited three key considerations. a. First, the Company’s accounts have not been audited since FY2015 and were unlikely to be audited given that the Company had already been wound up. Any attempts at determination of the fair value of the shares as at the date of the decision or as at April 2016 (as sought by Wei) would likely be time-consuming and expensive. b. Secondly, the liquidators may carry out investigations and take appropriate steps to redress any wrongs committed by its directors to the Company. c. Finally, Wei also contributed to the Company’s demise when he diverted business from the Company to a company he had an interest in, thereby undercutting the Company. It would not be fair to give Wei a “windfall” by way of a buyout of his shares that may now be worth little when Wei had contributed in part to the devaluation of those shares.8 The Judge instead ordered Low and Sim to return various sums which were paid out to them in breach of the Company’s Articles of Association (“the Company’s Articles”).Decision on appealCritical points to bear in mind9 The court observed that the Judge’s findings that: (a) oppression was made out against Low and Sim; and (b) the court can order a buyout notwithstanding the supervening insolvency of the Company were not challenged. In any event, that the court can order a buyout notwithstanding the supervening insolvency of the Company is amply supported by authority. The court also observed that upon the finding of oppression, the typical and almost default relief is to order a buyout of the shares of the minority shareholder: at [28]–[30].The court’s decision to make a buyout order10 The court found that a buyout order was appropriate in the circumstances and that the three considerations which persuaded the Judge to refrain from making the buyout order can effectively be addressed via the selection of an appropriate valuation date: at [33] and [39].11 First, the court found that there is no strict requirement in law for share valuations to be carried out on the basis of fully audited accounts. While having fully audited accounts will no doubt aid the valuation exercise, the lack thereof in itself should not preclude a buyout order. Further, the lack of financial information was the result of Low’s and Sim’s misconduct and to deny a buyout on this basis would be tantamount to sanctioning wrongdoings and rewarding the oppressor: at [34].12 Second, the fact that the liquidators may carry out investigations and take appropriate steps to redress any wrongs to the Company committed by its directors only addresses corporate and not personal wrongs. The remedies under s 216(2) of the Companies Act should be directed towards the wronged shareholder and not the company: at [35].13 Third, although Wei did divert business away from the Company, against the backdrop of the oppressive acts by Low and Sim against Wei, Wei’s own misconduct does not preclude a buyout order. Wei’s misconduct did not render Low’s and Sim’s oppressive conduct not unfair, and did not justify the denial of a buyout order: at [36]–[38].14 The court granted a buyout order and valued Wei’s shares at US$5m, which was the purchase price he paid to Seah. For all intents and purposes, Wei was treated by Low and Sim as a non-shareholder and non-director from inception. The court also noted that although Wei bought the shares from Seah and not from Low and/or Sim, this distinction should not affect the propriety of a buyout order based on the purchase price. The court observed that it should not matter whether the purchase price was paid to another outgoing shareholder or the remaining majority shareholder save for a situation where the purchase price was paid with a premium which cannot be readily explained or justified: at [44(a)] and [45].15 The court was of the view that ordering a buyout at US$5m is fair. The purchase price provides the best available objective valuation of the Company because this was in fact the actual value paid by Wei to Seah. Both Seah and Wei are experienced businessmen and there is no suggestion by Low or Sim that Wei paid a premium for the shares. In fact, Seah wanted US$10m based on the Company’s projected turnover but eventually accepted US$5m because he wanted to exit the Company without any further delay. Seah’s estimation was also supported by the valuation contained in reports commissioned by Low and Sim on the Company and its related companies for the purposes of fund raising. Low also did not disagree with the suggestion that the purchase price of US$5m was a fair and reasonable value: at [46(a)] and [46(b)].16 The court recognised that adopting the purchase price may not be the ideal way to value the shares. However, the court cannot ignore the reality that the accounts are in an unsatisfactory state. While it was true that the unsatisfactory state was caused by Low and Sim, that did not alter the undeniable fact that the accounts remained unsatisfactory: at [46(c)].17 The court noted that there would be no need to factor any discount to the eventual valuation on account of Wei’s undercutting since that occurred way after the operative valuation date: at [47].Other arguments18 The court rejected Wei’s argument that the court should value the shares as at December 2015 / January 2016 as there is a lack of audited accounts. Adopting this date may also generate further disputes as to the parameters of the valuation. While Wei had the expectation that there would be returns on his investment in the Company, the court noted that the expectation of returns does not always translate to guaranteed returns: at [48]–[49].19 The court rejected Wei’s arguments that he did not breach his fiduciary duties. The court also observed that given its decision to order a buyout based on the purchase price, nothing really turned on the finding that Wei had indeed breached his fiduciary duties to the Company: at [54].20 The court also observed that in light of its decision, it was not necessary to deal with Wei’s alternative claim for dividends and/or for the declaration against Low and Sim that they had breached their fiduciary duties. In any event, these reliefs were not appropriate in the context of an oppression action and in light of the findings by the Judge: at [55].Conclusion21 For the above reasons, the court ordered that Low and Sim shall be jointly and severally liable to buyout Wei’s shares at US$5m in substitution of the order made by the Judge for Low and Sim to return various sums which were paid out to them in breach of the Company’s Articles: at [56].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.
