
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE8 April 2022Case summaryCKH v CKG and another matter [2022] SGCA(I) 4Civil Appeal No 42 of 2021 and Summons No 91 of 2021 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Jonathan Hugh Mance):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against SICC Judge’s decision to suspend setting aside of arbitration award to enable tribunal to consider outstanding debt owed by one party. (139 characters) Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Although the pleadings were the first place in which to look for the issues submitted to arbitral decision, matters could arise which were or became within the scope of the issues submitted for arbitral decision even though they were not pleaded. Whether a matter fell within the scope of the agreed reference depended ultimately upon what the parties, viewing the whole position and the course of events objectively and fairly, might be taken to have accepted between themselves and before the tribunal: at [16]. Background to the appeal and material facts1 The appellant (“CKH”) had sold its timber concession interests in Indonesia to the respondent (“CKG”) in exchange for US$8 million and a three-year supply of round logs for use in CKH’s plywood factory. After CKH failed to make the agreed payments and CKG made reduced log deliveries, with each side attributing its own failure to the other’s, CKG wrote to CKH claiming to treat CKH’s outstanding indebtedness as a basis for eliminating both any shortfall in log deliveries up to that date and any future obligation to deliver logs after that date. In this regard, CKG relied on clause 4 of an agreement between the parties that had been recorded in signed meeting minutes (“the Minutes”). 2 CKH commenced arbitration proceedings in Singapore, claiming substantial damages for CKG’s failure to supply it with timber logs under an earlier agreement that had been entered into by the parties. CKG maintained its claim to treat CKH’s outstanding indebtedness as discharging it from all past and future liability to deliver logs. 3 The arbitral tribunal (“the Tribunal”), in its award (“the Award”), accepted CKH’s submission that CKG’s log delivery obligation operated independently of any payments it might or might not make in the relevant period, and that even thereafter it was incumbent on CKG to have attempted to settle any outstanding claim in an amicable manner under clause 4 of the Minutes before ceasing or reducing any round log supply. Accordingly, the Tribunal held CKG liable for damages for failure to supply the logs in appropriate quantities. However, the Tribunal did not give CKG credit for, or make any award in relation to, CKH’s outstanding debt relating to taxes, levies and freight claimed by CKG (“the Principal Debt”), on which CKG had relied when invoking clause 4 of the Minutes. CKG then applied to the Tribunal for an additional award in its favour in respect of the Principal Debt, but the Tribunal refused to make an additional award as it considered that CKG had not made the requisite “claim” for the Principal Debt in the arbitration.4 Subsequently, a High Court judge (“the Judge”) found that the Tribunal had in its Award failed to determine and take into account the Principal Debt claimed by CKG as owed by CKH, and interest thereon. Pursuant to Article 34(4) of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration scheduled to the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed), the Judge ordered that the setting aside of the Award be suspended for a period to enable the Tribunal to correct the Award by considering and taking into account CKG’s claim to the Principal Debt and interest thereon.Decision on appeal5 It was well-established that an arbitral tribunal’s failure to address an issue submitted to it for decision could constitute a breach of natural justice justifying intervention by the court. The critical issue in this case was therefore whether the Principal Debt, and interest thereon, were matters within the scope of the arbitration if clause 4 of the Minutes did not apply: at [12] and [14]. 6 There was no pleading in the arbitration addressing the position regarding the Principal Debt in the event that the Tribunal rejected CKG’s case that the Principal Debt justified it in either withholding or reducing timber log deliveries under clause 4 of the Minutes. However, matters could arise which were or became within the scope of the issues submitted for arbitral decision even though they were not pleaded. Whether a matter fell within the scope of the agreed reference depended ultimately upon what the parties, viewing the whole position and the course of events objectively and fairly, might be taken to have accepted between themselves and before the Tribunal. Arbitration is consensual, and parties and changing circumstances can lead implicitly as well as expressly to a widening of the scope of an arbitration: at [15] to [17]. 7 Viewing the position and course of events objectively, the natural expectation on both sides must have been (or be taken to have been) that if CKG’s reliance on clause 4 of the Minutes failed, CKG’s claim to the outstanding Principal Debt would then be brought into account in full as a contra item to any claim by CKH: at [25].8 The Tribunal itself recognised, in its decision refusing to make an additional award, that CKG had not only raised the issue of its entitlement to the Principal Debt as a defence to CKH’s claim for failure of log supply obligations, but also sought a set-off against any damages awarded in substitution of log supply to CKH: at [27].   9 It followed that the Tribunal’s Award was vulnerable to being set aside if not corrected since, having rejected CKG’s reliance on the debt-to-log conversion in clause 4 of the Minutes, the Award failed to consider or adjudicate upon the appropriate set-off. Further, in the circumstances, it was incumbent on the Tribunal to treat CKG as having in reality advanced the Principal Debt with interest not merely as a set-off, but as an item to be given full weight, whichever way the balance of account might as a result shift: at [29].10 The Judge’s decision was therefore correct on all central aspects. The only variation made by the court related to the Judge’s prospective order to the effect that, if the Tribunal was unable to eliminate the grounds for setting aside the Award, then certain sections of the Award should be set aside. The right order in this context should not be anticipated, but should be left over for consideration once the Tribunal had responded to the other order made by the Judge and affirmed on appeal: at [30] and [31].11 CKH had also filed an application for leave to adduce further evidence relating to a parallel arbitration before the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration, commenced by CKG’s affiliate, to recover from CKH the same taxes, levies and freight as were said to constitute the Principal Debt. While the precise relationships between the parties and agreements involved were currently obscure, tribunals and courts had, at the enforcement stage, powers which should avoid any risk of injustice arising from double recovery against CKH. In any event, no legal basis or mechanism had been suggested by virtue of which the court could or should refrain from addressing the issues actually before it in the ordinary course: at [32].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
