
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE7 April 2022Case summaryPublic Prosecutor v Tan Jia Jun Shawn [2022] SGHC 76Magistrate’s Appeal No 9245 of 2021/01----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the General Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Vincent Hoong):Outcome: The High Court allows the Prosecution’s appeal against the accused’s sentence of a fine of $3,500. In its place, it imposes a sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment in respect of a charge of voluntarily causing hurt to a victim who was nine weeks’ pregnant at the time of the offence. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  In situations of unprovoked violence against a vulnerable victim, general deterrence is still the paramount sentencing consideration (at [19]).•  The DJ erred in failing to consider the sustained and vicious nature of the accused’s assault. His resort to violence was clearly a disproportionate response to the situation. Not only did he admit to delivering multiple punches to the victim’s face and punching and kicking her abdominal area, but it is also clear that he had inflicted more extensive injuries to the rest of her body, including her chest, spine and limbs, as evidenced by the medical report. The accused had also directed blows at the victim’s face which is a vulnerable part of her body. Moreover, the accused did not merely deliver a one-off blow, but instead engaged in a continuous and persistent assault against the victim. He did not desist of his own accord, but only ceased his assault after his mother intervened (at [27]–[29]). •  The accused’s culpability was further heightened due to the victim’s physical and emotional vulnerability, as well as the potential harm to the foetus. •  Forgiveness should not ordinarily be regarded as a mitigating factor capable of affecting the sentence to be imposed on an offender (at [38]).•  Where forgiveness is relevant as a mitigating factor, it merely serves as a moderating influence on the severity of the sentence; it should not in any way determine the type of sentence to be imposed (at [45]).•  A custodial sentence is unquestionably warranted in this case. Such a sustained and vicious act of violence committed against a pregnant victim must be visited with a condign punishment which reflects the gravity of the offence. The criminal justice system functions to protect those who have been or may be victims of violence. The sentence to be imposed must send an unequivocal message to would-be perpetrators that such behaviour is totally unacceptable and will not be tolerated by our courts. The sentence must give emphasis to the need for specific and general deterrence, punishment and to reflect society’s strong disapprobation of such conduct (at [46]).Facts1 The accused and the victim were in a romantic relationship. Shortly before the incident, they visited a clinic and discovered that the victim was about nine weeks’ pregnant. They were advised by a doctor to decide, within a week, between proceeding with the pregnancy or opting for an abortion, as there would be a further risk of medical complications if the victim delayed the decision to go for an abortion. A few days after visiting the clinic, the victim stayed overnight at the respondent’s home. However, the next day, they got into an argument while discussing what should be done about the victim’s pregnancy. The argument became heated. The respondent pushed the victim onto his bed and punched and kicked her abdominal area multiple times, and punched her face multiple times, intending to cause hurt to her. Upon hearing the commotion, the respondent’s mother intervened and managed to stop the respondent from further assaulting the victim. 2 Later that day, the victim was treated at the Department of Emergency Medicine at the National University Hospital. She sustained a right facial contusion with possible underlying maxillary bone fracture and multiple superficial injuries. She did not undergo a formal radiograph to confirm the possibility of a maxillary bone fracture due to her ongoing pregnancy and the risk of exposing the foetus to radiation. 3 The District Judge (“DJ”) sentenced the accused to a fine of $3,500 and in default, two weeks’ imprisonment. 4 The Prosecution filed an appeal on the grounds that the DJ erred in concluding that a custodial sentence of imprisonment was not warranted and that a sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment was appropriate on the facts of the case.  The court’s decision on appeal5 The High Court allowed the Prosecution’s appeal against sentence. The fine of $3,500 imposed on the charge of voluntarily causing hurt was substituted with two weeks’ imprisonment. 6 Deterrence is warranted in cases involving domestic violence and violence between parties in intimate relationships, where there is an abuse of the bonds of trust and interdependency that exist between the parties. Thus, the courts seek to uphold the public interest in preventing such abuse by imposing deterrent sentences as a signal of society’s opprobrium (at [16]).7 The law is thus not primarily concerned with deterring violence between parties in certain categories of relationships per se. Rather, the underlying inquiry is whether there has been an abuse of trust and interdependency associated with the relationship between the parties. Invariably, where violence is committed between parties in certain categories of relationships, for example, familial relationships, there is almost always an abuse of trust and interdependency. However, in other cases, whether such abuse has been occasioned is a fact-specific inquiry (at [17]). 8 Although the respondent and the victim were in a romantic relationship at the time, the facts did not disclose any abuse of trust and interdependency of the victim on the part of the respondent. Nonetheless, in such situations of unprovoked violence against a vulnerable victim, it is plain that general deterrence is still the paramount sentencing consideration (at [18]–[19]).9 The sentencing framework laid down in PP v Low Song Chye [2019] 5 SLR 526 applies (at [22]). 10 The fine imposed on the respondent is manifestly inadequate and the custodial threshold has necessarily been crossed in this case (at [23]). 11 The harm caused to the victim in the present case falls within Band 1 of the Low Song Chye framework (at [24]). 12 The DJ made several errors in her assessment of the accused’s culpability (at [25]).13 First, the DJ erred in failing to consider the sustained and vicious nature of the accused’s assault (at [26]). Not only did he admit to delivering multiple punches to the victim’s face and punching and kicking her abdominal area, but it is also clear that he had inflicted more extensive injuries to the rest of her body, including her chest, spine and limbs, as evidenced by the medical report. It is also notable that the accused directed blows at the victim’s face, which is a vulnerable part of her body (at [28]). Moreover, the accused did not merely deliver a one-off blow, but instead engaged in a continuous and persistent assault against the victim, with each strike delivered with the intention to cause hurt to her. Crucially, the accused did not desist of his own accord, but only ceased his violence after his mother overheard the commotion and intervened (at [29]). 14 Second, the accused’s culpability was further heightened due to the victim’s physical and emotional vulnerability, as well as the potential harm to the foetus (at [31]). There was an additional dimension of vulnerability unique to pregnant victims who suffer from acts of violence perpetrated against them – this being the emotional distress arising out of the fear for the potential loss of their unborn child (at [33]).15 Forgiveness by the victim should not ordinarily be regarded as a mitigating factor capable of affecting the sentence to be imposed on an offender (at [38]), save for two exceptional situations as set out in PP v UI [2008] 4 SLR(R) 500 (at [39]). The DJ erred in finding that the two exceptional situations were satisfied in the present case (at [42]–[44]). 16 It bears emphasis that where forgiveness does apply as a mitigating factor, it merely serves as a moderating influence on the severity of the sentence; it should not in any way determine the type of sentence to be imposed. Ultimately, what should determine the type of sentence to be imposed is the gravity of the offence committed, reflecting the harm caused to the victim, the culpability of the offender and other relevant sentencing principles. Thus, where the custodial threshold has been crossed based on an assessment of these factors, the victim’s forgiveness cannot, and should not, be accorded such significant weight as to justify the imposition of a fine instead (at [45]).Conclusion17 For the reasons above, a sentence of two weeks’ imprisonment was imposed.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
