
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE4 April 2022Case summaryHin Leong Trading (Pte) Ltd v Rajah & Tann Singapore LLP and another appeal [2022] SGCA 28) Civil Appeal Nos. 202 and 203 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Judith Prakash):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeals against the decision of the High Court judge to strike out injunction applications that were brought in the name of certain companies, on the basis that the company directors did not have the power to commence and maintain the applications after the companies had been placed under interim judicial management.Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court holds that upon a company being placed under judicial management or in liquidation, with insolvency representatives appointed concomitantly over the company, the company’s directors retain residual powers in the limited situation where the company seeks to appeal against or otherwise challenge the very order appointing the judicial managers or liquidators, and must therefore act through its directors. This residual power is necessarily of a narrow scope, to be invoked in very specific situations: at [62].1 The appeals arise from the decision of the High Court judge (the “Judge”) to allow the striking out of applications to injunct (the “Injunction Applications”) the respondent law firm from advising and acting for the appellants in applications for judicial management orders made by the latter, as well as the interim judicial managers (“IJMs”) and judicial managers (“JMs”) of the appellants, if they were appointed. Background to the appeal2 On 27 April 2020, the Judge placed the first appellant under interim judicial management and appointed IJMs over it. On 12 May 2020, the Judge placed the second appellant under interim judicial management and appointed IJMs over it. After their appointment, the IJMs of both appellants retained the legal services of the respondent. 3 At the material time, Mr Lim Chee Meng (“Mr CM Lim”) and Ms Lim Huey Ching (“Ms HC Lim”; collectively, the “Lims”) were directors of the appellants. On 9 and 21 July 2020, the Lims caused the Injunction Applications to be commenced in the names of the appellants. Despite the appointment of the IJMs over the appellants, the Lims did not seek their approval in relation to the filing of the Injunction Applications, or the consent of the JMs to proceed with them following the subsequent court orders placing the appellants under judicial management. The respondent filed applications (the “Striking Out Applications”) on 5 October 2020, seeking to strike out the Injunction Applications in their entirety. The Lims and their father, Mr Lim Oon Kuin, responded by commencing applications to join themselves (the “Joinder Applications”) as parties to the Injunction Applications in their personal capacities. The first and second appellants were subsequently placed in compulsory liquidation on 8 March 2021 and 16 August 2021 respectively, with the JMs appointed as the liquidators.4 The Judge heard the Joinder Applications and the Striking Out Applications together. He dismissed the former but allowed the latter. In respect of the latter, he considered that neither of the Lims possessed managerial powers qua directors to commence the Injunction Applications in the names of the appellants. They consequently had no standing and the Injunction Applications were taken out without due authority. In making this finding, the Judge rejected the Lims’ argument that notwithstanding the Companies having been placed under interim judicial management, the Lims continued to possess residual powers of management as directors under common law that empowered them to commence the Injunction Applications in the names of the appellants. Decision on appeal5 Striking out was clearly warranted where there was an absence of legal standing owing to a lack of authority, because such proceedings ought not, and indeed could not validly have been brought at all. The sole point of contention was therefore whether the Lims were legally entitled to commence the Injunction Applications in the names of the appellants. This in turn entailed ascertaining the exact scope of a director’s powers, residual or otherwise, upon the appointment of insolvency officeholders such as IJMs, JMs and liquidators: at [15].6 The court orders appointing the IJMs over the appellants were phrased in similar terms and conferred upon the IJMs the general powers and entitlements of a JM under the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) (“the Act”). The latter in turn included the exclusive power to bring or defend any action or other legal proceedings in name and on behalf of the appellants, pursuant to ss 227G(2)–(4) read with the Eleventh Schedule of the Act. The Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that the contention by the Lims that they had power as directors of the appellants to commence and maintain the Injunction Applications, notwithstanding the lack of any sanction by the IJMs or the JMs, was a non-starter as long as the appellants were under judicial management. The position was also similar in the context of an order placing a company in liquidation and the consequent appointment of liquidators: at [19]–[26].7 The Court of Appeal rejected the Lims’ argument that residual powers that continued to be vested in them as directors of the appellants allowed them to procure the commencement of the Injunction Applications. The English and Malaysian authorities pointed to by the appellants merely stood for the proposition that following the making of an order appointing an IJM, JM, provisional liquidator or liquidator, the directors only retained such “residual powers” which the insolvency office-bearer did not or could not assume under the applicable legislation or order of court. Furthermore, such residual powers as the directors might have to challenge a judicial management order should only be available when the original application had been made by a creditor. Bearing in mind that a judicial management order could only be made at the instance of the company itself acting in accordance with the resolutions of the board or the shareholders or upon the application of a creditor, it would be incongruous to allow the directors power to challenge their own actions or those of the shareholders: at [28]–[56].8 The Court of Appeal rejected the argument that the residual powers of a director applied to all proceedings which were such that it would not be appropriate for the liquidator to give instructions on behalf of the company. This assertion was without authority, and would effectively outflank and upend the purpose of the legislative scheme for judicial management and liquidation. The Lims’ submission that by seeking to injunct the respondent from acting, they were implicating only the power to restrain solicitors but not the liquidators’ powers to retain solicitors was not based on any legal principle. Finally, their submission that the court would retain oversight over the conduct of JMs or liquidators as well as their solicitors if directors retained such a residual power did nothing to address the authorities which had ruled on the limits of the power, and the status of solicitors as officers of the court already meant that the court had oversight over their conduct: at [58]–[61].9 The cases therefore established that upon a court order placing a company under judicial management or liquidation, with insolvency representatives being appointed concomitantly over the company, a company’s directors retained residual powers in the limited situation where a company sought to appeal against or otherwise challenge the very order appointing the JMs or liquidators, and must therefore act through its directors. This residual power was necessarily of a narrow scope, to be invoked in very specific situations. The present case did not come within this exception: the Injunction Applications did not challenge the juridical basis of the IJMs’, JMs’ and liquidators’ powers. The Injunction Applications were accordingly correctly struck out: at [62]–[64].10 The Court of Appeal held that it would be just for the Lims to bear the costs of the appeals personally. The Injunction Applications ought not to have been brought in the names of the appellants in the first place. The Lims had a close connection to the Injunction Applications and the appeals, and there was a direct nexus between their commencement of the Injunction Applications in the names of the appellants and the incurring of costs by the respondent, which had to resist the Applications: at [65]–[69].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
