
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE29 March 2022Case summaryNagaenthran a/l K Dharmalingam v Attorney-General and another matter [2022] SGCA 26 Civil Appeal No 61 of 2021 and Criminal Motion No 30 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where an appellant seeks to adduce fresh evidence in support of an appeal, such an application will fail where the evidence was available but was seemingly deployed in a cynical and tactical manner in an attempt to stymie the resolution of the court process, as this amounts to an abuse of process (at [45] and [65]).•  Counsel who assist their clients in drip-feeding applications and evidence act contrary to their duties, as officers of the court, to assist the court in the administration of justice. Such actions, if allowed to run unchecked, will throw the whole system of justice into disrepute (at [3]).Introduction1 Civil Appeal No 61 of 2021 (“CA 61”) was an appeal by the appellant, Mr Nagaenthran a/l K Dharmalingam, against the decision of the High Court judge (“the Judge”) dismissing his application in Originating Summons No 1109 of 2021 (“OS 1109”) for leave to commence judicial review proceedings in respect of his impending execution. Criminal Motion No 30 of 2021 (“CM 30”) was the appellant’s motion for him to be assessed by an independent panel of psychiatrists and for a stay of execution of his sentence in the meantime. The central argument for both matters concerned an assertion as to the appellant’s present mental faculties: that because of an alleged deterioration in the appellant’s mental faculties since the time of his offence, the sentence of death could not be allowed to be carried out. Background to the appeal2 The appellant was charged under s 7 of the Misuse of Drugs Act (Cap 185, 2008 Rev Ed) (“the MDA”) with importing not less than 42.72g of diamorphine on 22 April 2009. He was convicted after trial and sentenced to the mandatory death penalty, and his conviction and sentenced was upheld by the Court of Appeal. 3 Following various legal proceedings, the execution of the appellant was eventually scheduled for 10 November 2021. He was notified of this on 27 October 2021.4 On 2 November 2021, the appellant, through his then counsel on record Mr Ravi s/o Madasamy (“Mr Ravi”), filed OS 1109, seeking leave to commence judicial review proceedings against his impending execution. The sole factual basis furnished for this application was an affidavit of Mr Ravi stating his “firm belief” as to the appellant’s mental age, despite acknowledging himself that he did not have the necessary medical expertise. 5 OS 1109 was heard on 8 November 2021. CM 30 was filed during the hearing of OS 1109. During the hearing, Mr Ravi also informed the Judge that he was in possession of an affidavit of the appellant’s brother, Mr Navinkumar a/l K Dharmalingam (“Mr Navinkumar”), in which Mr Navinkumar purportedly affirmed that the appellant’s mental condition had deteriorated very significantly. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Judge dismissed OS 1109. 6 The appellant filed CA 61 to appeal against the Judge’s decision in OS 1109. 7 CM 30 was fixed to be heard together with CA 61 on 9 November 2021 at 2.30pm. On the morning of 9 November 2021, Mr Ravi sought an adjournment of the hearing, citing, among other things, the need to file further affidavits. When the court declined and directed that the hearing continue as scheduled, Mr Ravi filed a report of one Dr Danny Sullivan (“Dr Sullivan”) dated 5 November 2021 and a report of one Mr P B J Schaapveld (“Mr Schaapveld”) dated 7 November 2021. Both Dr Sullivan and Mr Schaapveld had not examined or even spoken to the appellant. 8 When CM 30 and CA 61 came on for hearing on 9 November 2021, the Court was informed that the appellant had tested positive for COVID-19. In the circumstances, the court adjourned the hearing of CM 30 and CA 61 to a date to be fixed and issued a stay of execution. On 3 February 2022, a notice of change of solicitor was filed, with Ms L F Violet Netto (“Ms Netto”) now acting for the appellant in place of Mr Ravi. CM 30 and CA 61 were eventually heard on 1 March 2022.The decision of the Court9 The Court held that there was no admissible evidence showing any decline in the appellant’s mental condition after the commission of the offence. Mr Ravi himself acknowledged that he had no medical expertise, and that he was in effect speculating what the appellant’s mental age was. His assertion that he had a “firm belief” in his own speculation was self-serving and not supported by anything at all. His bare assertion as to the appellant’s mental condition was therefore irrelevant and inadmissible (at [33]). Further, Mr Ravi, as the appellant’s counsel, could not be said to be a disinterested party and by reason of his engagement as counsel, should not even have been putting himself forward as a material witness. In addition, to underscore the lack of good faith in the position that was being taken, Mr Ravi’s purported opinion seemed to be based on a single interaction with the appellant over the course of the last three years, which lasted less than half an hour on 2 November 2021. The Court affirmed the Judge’s decision that there was no credible basis on which Mr Ravi’s assertions could be believed (at [34]). 10 The evidence raised by the Attorney-General (“the AG”) also undermined the appellant’s case that he had suffered a deterioration in his mental faculties. The prison officer in charge of observing the appellant, Supt Shahrom bin Thamby Ahmad (“Supt Shahrom”) deposed that the appellant displayed no abnormality in his behaviour, after he was informed of the execution date and in the days leading up to the date of Supt Shahrom’s affidavit, which was just five days before the appointed date of execution. As Supt Shahrom had no interest in seeing that the appellant be executed, the Court saw no reason to disbelieve his testimony (at [35]).11 Further, the AG was prepared to tender a report in respect of a psychiatric assessment that was conducted on 5 August 2021, and a further report in respect of a medical assessment that was conducted on 3 November 2021, which the AG contended would show that there was no abnormality affecting the appellant. Mr Ravi objected to the admission of the reports into evidence, citing the appellant’s interest in medical confidentiality. Ms Netto maintained Mr Ravi’s objection at the hearing on 1 March 2022. Having called his medical condition into question, the Court could not see how the appellant could at the same time, in good faith, prevent access to evidence that pertained to the very condition in question. The Court found that these reports could have shed real light on the appellant’s state of mind, as they came from trained personnel and were produced by third parties as part of scheduled check-ups, and not as a litigation response to OS 1109 or CM 30. These reports should therefore be regarded as presumptively objective. The Court found that the objection mounted on the appellant’s behalf supported the inference that he was aware of the evidential difficulties with his case, and was seeking to prevent the court from accessing that evidence because he knew or believed it would undermine his case (at [36]–[37] and [51]).12 The Court also found that there was no jurisdictional basis for CM 30. Criminal motions were properly used to invoke the court’s criminal jurisdiction. However, there was no substantive criminal matter than CM 30 had been filed in support of or in connection with. CM 30 was at best, an attempt to adduce additional evidence to support a civil appeal (in CA 61) against the refusal to grant leave and that was procedurally improper (at [40]–[41]). The Court nonetheless considered CM 30 which was, in essence, an application to adduce fresh evidence in support of an appeal. The Court found that the evidence sought to be adduced was available but was seemingly deployed in a cynical and tactical manner in an attempt to stymie the resolution of the court process. This alone, amounting as it did to an abuse of process, would doom the present application (at [45] and [65]). 13 But beyond that, the evidence sought to be admitted in CM 30 was unreliable. As with Mr Ravi’s testimony, Mr Navinkumar’s testimony was of no value. As the appellant’s brother, Mr Navinkumar was an interested witness, perhaps even more so than Mr Ravi. He was equally unqualified to opine on the appellant’s medical state or mental faculties. There were material unexplained differences between the two affidavits of Mr Navinkumar, which raised further questions as to his credibility (at [49]). The Court found that if the appellant’s condition was indeed as described by Mr Navinkumar in his affidavits – and assuming this condition was medically significant – one would expect this to be corroborated by the medical assessment of the appellant on 3 November 2021 and he would then have been referred for psychiatric assessment. In addition, Supt Shahrom had deposed that in such a situation, he would have been notified but there was no such notification. At present, the medical records were also not before the Court (at [50] and [52]).14 As for the reports of Dr Sullivan and Mr Schaapveld, no reliance could be placed on them because they had not examined or even spoken to the appellant and had not seen his present medical records (at [54]). Given the lack of evidence to indicate any deterioration of the appellant’s mental condition, the Court dismissed CA 61 and CM 30 (at [55]).15 Without a factual foundation, the arguments on international law and the Constitution were purely moot. Nevertheless, the Court affirmed the Judge’s decision that the plain language of Arts 9(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution could not be ignored or rewritten by the court in order to accommodate a supposed rule of international law prohibiting the execution of intellectually disabled persons, assuming such a rule was shown to exist. As Singapore is a dualist jurisdiction, treaty obligations are not self-executing under our legal system. Further, the appellant also did not lead evidence showing extensive and uniform state practice and opinio juris to show that the rule of customary international law that he contended for exists to begin with (at [57]).16 But even assuming that the treaty obligations or customary international law norms to the effect contended for by the appellant existed, there were limits to interpretation; neither customary international law nor treaty law could trump an inconsistent domestic law that was clear and unambiguous in its terms and pretending that the court was engaged in an interpretative exercise does not change this. The framework of the MDA was unambiguous and save for the two situations in s 33B of the MDA, the Court found that it could not imply or create new carve-outs for when a court may sentence the appellant to any sentence other than the prescribed mandatory death penalty. In essence, it was impermissible for the court to act as a legislator in the guise of interpreting the Constitution (at [58]). The Court also found that “age” in relation to the CPC meant chronological age and did not extend to mental age (at [59]). Consequently, the Court found that the legal case mounted by the appellant was hopeless (at [62]). 17 The Court held that the proceedings constituted a blatant and egregious abuse of the court’s processes. The appellant had been afforded due process under law, and it was not open to him to challenge the outcome of that process when he had put nothing forward to suggest that he did have a case to be considered. The proceedings had been conducted with the seeming aim of unjustifiably delaying the carrying into effect of the sentence imposed on the appellant; and the case mounted by the appellant’s counsel was baseless and without merit, both as a matter of fact and of law (at [2] and [63]–[64]). CM 30 was without jurisdictional or factual basis (at [65]). When every single action on the part of one party was done in a manner that was contrary to the applicable rules and contrary even to basic expectations of fairness to the other party and of courtesy to the court, it became difficult to accept that there was an innocent explanation for this. This was heightened when either no explanations were offered, or explanations that were offered were shown to be untrue (at [24]).Given the manner in which the various applications had been made, the Court was unable to see how the conduct of the appellant’s case could be said to be anything other than drip-feeding applications in a bid to thwart the court’s efforts to discharge its responsibility to dispose of the matter timeously, in accordance with its merits (at [17]). Counsel who assisted their clients in drip-feeding applications and evidence acted contrary to their duties, as officers of the court, to assist the court in the administration of justice. This would be aggravated when such applications were made without basis and counsel knew or ought reasonably to have known this. Such actions, if allowed to run unchecked, would throw the whole system of justice into disrepute (at [3]).This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
