
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE21 March 2022Case summaryRothstar Group Ltd v Leow Quek Shiong and other appeals [2022] SGCA 25Civil Appeals Nos. 36, 37 and 38 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):Outcome: CoA dismisses appeals against decision that mortgage was transaction at undervalue and that private trustees’ caveat should not be removed. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The value comparison exercise between the consideration provided and the consideration received under s 98(3)(c) of the Bankruptcy Act (Cap 20, 2009 Rev Ed) (“the BA”) had to be undertaken from the perspective of the insolvent grantor. While the relevant consideration need not have been received by the grantor directly, the value of that consideration was relevant only in so far as it accrued to the grantor. Nevertheless, the grantor’s mere perception of value would not suffice: at [25] and [26].   •  Both the value of the consideration provided and the value of the consideration received by the grantor had to be assessed “in money or money’s worth”. This required the value of the consideration to be quantifiable in monetary terms: at [30] and [34].•  Pursuant to the principle in Re MC Bacon Ltd [1990] BCLC 324 (“MC Bacon”), which should be adopted as part of Singapore law, the grant of security for the grantor’s existing debt would not constitute a transaction at an undervalue under s 98(3)(c) of the BA. However, the principle in MC Bacon did not apply where the relevant security was granted in respect of a third party’s existing debt. Such a grant of security could constitute a transaction at an undervalue under s 98(3)(c) of the BA: at [39], [40], [42], [43] and [45].Background to the appeal and material facts 1 Mr Ng Say Pek (“NSP”) and his son were the shareholders and directors of Agritrade International (Pte) Ltd (“AIPL”). NSP was also the sole shareholder and one of the two directors of Pictorial Development Pte Ltd (“Pictorial”). Pictorial owned 99% of a property (“the Property”), with the remaining 1% owned by NSP in his own name.  2 AIPL entered into an agreement (“the Loan Agreement”) with Rothstar Group Limited (“Rothstar”) under which Rothstar agreed to loan $5m to AIPL (“the Loan”). NSP and Pictorial granted an equitable mortgage over the Property to Rothstar as security for the fulfilment of AIPL’s obligations under the Loan Agreement. After AIPL failed to make repayment of the Loan by the date stipulated under the Loan Agreement and the repayment deadline was extended twice, the equitable mortgage was terminated in consideration of NSP and Pictorial agreeing to grant Rothstar a legal mortgage over the Property. Subsequently, NSP and Pictorial executed this legal mortgage as security for all sums due and payable by them and/or AIPL to Rothstar (“the Legal Mortgage”). AIPL ultimately failed to repay the Loan. 3 A bankruptcy order was made against NSP, and his private trustees in bankruptcy (“the Private Trustees”) lodged a caveat against the Property. Pictorial was wound up and a liquidator was appointed (“the Liquidator”). Thereafter, AIPL was wound up.4 The Liquidator and the Private Trustees applied for the Legal Mortgage to be set aside on the ground that it was a transaction at an undervalue or a voluntary conveyance to defraud creditors. Rothstar in turn applied for the removal of the Private Trustees’ caveat. 5 The Judge held that the Legal Mortgage was void as a transaction at an undervalue, but was not a voluntary conveyance to defraud creditors. The Judge also dismissed Rothstar’s application to remove the Private Trustees’ caveat. Rothstar appealed against the Judge’s decision.Decision on appealTransactions at an undervalue6 Whereas s 98(3)(a) of the Bankruptcy Act (Cap 20, 2009 Rev Ed) (“the BA”) was concerned only with the existence of consideration in the contractual sense, s 98(3)(c) of the BA required a comparison of value between the consideration provided and the consideration received. In undertaking the value comparison exercise under s 98(3)(c), two points were key: at [24].  7 First, the value comparison exercise had to be undertaken from the perspective of the grantor (ie, the insolvent individual or company). While the relevant consideration need not have been received by the grantor directly, the value of that consideration was relevant only in so far as it accrued to the grantor. Nevertheless, the grantor’s mere perception of value would not suffice; what matters was the actual value received and provided by the grantor: at [25] and [26].8 Second, both the value of the consideration provided and the value of the consideration received by the grantor had to be assessed “in money or money’s worth”. This required the value of the consideration to be quantifiable in monetary terms, even if the precise monetary value could not be immediately determined with certainty. Where the value of the consideration was precarious or speculative, some evidence would be needed to establish and quantify its value in monetary terms: at [30] and [34].9 The principle in the English case of Re MC Bacon Ltd [1990] BCLC 324 (“MC Bacon”) should be adopted as part of Singapore law, in preference to the approach in Hill v Spread Trustee Co Ltd and another [2007] 1 WLR 2404. It was supported by the weight of authority and was also sound in principle. Thus, the grant of security for the grantor’s existing debt would not constitute a transaction at an undervalue: at [39] and [40]. 10 Nevertheless, the principle in MC Bacon applied within, and not in the alternative to, the value comparison exercise in s 98(3)(c) of the BA. It therefore could not be applied as a blanket rule to all grants of security for existing debts. In particular, it did not apply where the relevant security was granted in respect of a third party’s existing debt. Such a grant of security could, in principle, constitute a transaction at an undervalue under s 98(3)(c) of the BA: at [42], [43] and [45].11 On the facts, there was no value received by Pictorial and NSP in money or money’s worth which could be compared with the significant value provided by them. The value provided by Pictorial and NSP was twofold: first, the Legal Mortgage securing AIPL’s debt; and second, a new primary obligation to repay the Loan which they assumed under the terms of the Legal Mortgage. As for the value received by Pictorial and NSP, there was no evidence of Pictorial and NSP receiving the value of the Loan or any benefit therefrom that could be assessed in money or money’s worth. The benefit that Rothstar claimed Pictorial and NSP received from the Loan was an unparticularised and unsubstantiated benefit which was said to accrue to them merely by dint of their association with AIPL. The Legal Mortgage was therefore a transaction at an undervalue under s 98(3)(c) of the BA: at [47] to [49] and [51]. 12 Pictorial and NSP were insolvent at the time of, or became insolvent as a result of, granting the Legal Mortgage. The Liquidator and the Private Trustees were not estopped from arguing that the Legal Mortgage was liable to be avoided as a transaction at an undervalue, as this would subvert the statutory scheme of s 98 of the BA: at [53] to [55] and [59]. 13 The consequence of the Legal Mortgage being a transaction at an undervalue was not that it was “void”. Under s 98(2) of the BA, the court had the power to make an order to restore the position to what it would have been if the transaction had not been entered into. However, the transaction itself was not retrospectively avoided. The appropriate order was an order discharging the Legal Mortgage with prospective effect, without more: at [60], [61] and [66].Voluntary conveyances to defraud creditors 14 The Legal Mortgage was not a voluntary conveyance to defraud creditors under s 73B(1) of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act (Cap 61, 1994 Rev Ed). Valid consideration had been provided by Rothstar for the Legal Mortgage, in the form of both the discharge of the equitable mortgage and the Loan extended to AIPL. There was no evidence that Pictorial and NSP had acted with the actual intent to defraud their creditors, and there was also nothing to suggest that Rothstar had notice of any such intent at the relevant time: at [68], [71], [73] and [74].Removal of the Private Trustees’ caveat15 Once the Legal Mortgage was set aside, Rothstar would cease to have any interest in the Property as a registered legal mortgagee. It would then no longer be a “caveatee” to whom s 127(1) of the Land Titles Act (Cap 157, 2004 Rev Ed) (“the LTA”) provided a remedy: at [76].16 Rothstar’s submission that the Private Trustees lacked standing to lodge their caveat was misconceived as they had a clear entitlement to lodge and maintain their caveat under s 115(1) of the LTA. In contrast, following the discharge of the Legal Mortgage, Rothstar would have no interest in the Property. The balance of convenience plainly lay in favour of maintaining the Private Trustees’ caveat: at [77] and [78].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
