
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE14 March 2022Case summaryLaw Society of Singapore v Lee Wei Ling and another [2022] SGCA 22Civil Appeal No 59 of 2021  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon):  Outcome: CoA allowed the appeal. Pertinent and significant point of the judgment:•  Section 87 of the Legal Profession Act 1966 (2020 Rev Ed) allows the Council of the Law Society to refer a complaint against a solicitor back to the Inquiry Committee for reconsideration, pursuant to s 87(1)(d). This power can be exercised regardless of whether the IC has determined, in the first instance, that the matter should be referred for a formal investigation by the Disciplinary Tribunal.Background to the appeal1 The executors (“the Executors”) of the estate of Mr Lee Kuan Yew (“the Testator”) made four complaints with the Law Society of Singapore (“the Appellant”) against a solicitor, Ms Kwa Kim Li (“Ms Kwa”), in relation to her conduct in the course of preparing first to sixth wills made by the Testator (“the Wills”). The Executors alleged that Ms Kwa had breached her duties. The first complaint, the subject of the present appeal (“the Appeal”), was that Ms Kwa had failed to adhere to the Testator’s instructions to physically destroy the Wills, as and when they were superseded by a subsequent will, and specifically by the final will which is the seventh will (“The First Complaint”). 2 The Council of the Law Society (“the Council”) convened an Inquiry Committee (“IC”) to consider the four complaints. In the first report by the IC (“the First IC Report”), the IC recommended that the First Complaint be referred to a Disciplinary Tribunal (“DT”) for a formal investigation. The Council posed further queries and referred the matter back to the IC for further consideration. In the second report by the IC (“the Second IC Report”), the IC recommended that the First Complaint be dismissed as there was no prima facie case of sufficient gravity to warrant a further investigation, after the IC had heard from Ms Kwa. The Council adopted the IC’s recommendation in the Second IC Report and dismissed the First Complaint.3 The Executors brought an application before the High Court Judge (“the Judge”), seeking, among other things, that the Council be directed to refer the First Complaint to a DT. The crux of their case was that first, the Council had no power to refer the matter back to the IC for further consideration, after the IC had determined in the First IC Report that the matter be referred to a DT. This was based on the Executors’ interpretation of s 87 of the Legal Profession Act 1966 (2020 Rev Ed) (“the LPA”). Secondly, the Executors contended that there was a prima facie case of sufficient gravity against Ms Kwa, and thus the First Complaint should have been referred to a DT.4 The Judge allowed the Executors’ application regarding the First Complaint. The Judge agreed with the Executors’ interpretation and held that the Council had no power to refer a matter back to the IC for further consideration after the IC had determined that a matter be referred to a DT. In the alternative, the Judge found that the Council should have referred the matter to a DT, as there was a prima facie case that warranted a formal investigation.  5 The Appellant appealed against the Judge’s decision in respect of the First Complaint, arguing that (a) the Council was empowered to refer a matter back to the IC for further consideration under s 87(1)(d) of the LPA (“the First Issue”); and (b) there was no prima facie case of sufficient gravity with respect to the First Complaint (“the Second Issue’).The decision of the Court 6 On the First Issue concerning the interpretation of s 87 of the LPA, the Court applied the framework for statutory interpretation that was set out in Tan Cheng Bock v Attorney-General [2017] 2 SLR 850 (“Tan Cheng Bock”). Under that framework, first, the court would ascertain the possible interpretations of the provision, having regard to the text and context of the provision; second, the court would ascertain the legislative purpose or object of the statute; and third, the court would compare the possible interpretations of the text against the purposes or objects of the statute and choose the interpretation that best advanced the statutory object or purpose: at [32].   7 In terms of the first step of the Tan Cheng Bock framework, the Court held that the plain wording of s 87 of the LPA did not constrain the Council’s power to act under s 87(1)(d) to refer a matter back to the IC for further consideration, upon receiving the IC’s report: at [34], [35].8 Both the text and context of s 87 supported the Court’s interpretation. Section 87(2)(a) of the LPA explicitly stated that the Council was to refer a matter to the DT where the IC so recommended in its report “read with any response or further report submitted under subsection (1A)(b)”. This meant that the obligation of the Council to refer a matter to the DT only arose when that was the recommendation of the IC, having regard to both the initial report and any subsequent report the IC may issue. Section 87(1A) of the LPA set out the timeline for any reconsideration by the IC, as an intermediate step in the process leading to s 87(2), where the Council made the determination. Both the text and context of ss 87(1A) and 87(2) contemplated a situation where the IC may be asked to submit a further response: at [36], [37].  9 The mandatory language in s 87(2), that the Council must determine accordingly where the IC recommended a formal investigation, only applied after the Council had considered the IC’s initial report as well as any subsequent report by the IC. As the plain wording did not suggest that the Council’s power has been circumscribed by s 87(2), the Judge had erred in accepting the Respondent’s interpretation as a possible interpretation: at [38]. 10 The Court considered that there was no need to proceed past the first step of the Tan Cheng Bock framework, as the plain wording did not support the Respondent’s interpretation. Nonetheless, the Court considered the purpose of the provision and held that the Court’s interpretation did not detract from the legislative purpose of s 87: at [44]. 11 The Parliamentary debates leading up to the amendments of the LPA in 1979 and 2008 did not suggest that Parliament intended to take away the Council’s power under s 87 to refer a matter back to the IC. If Parliament had intended to take away a pre-existing power of the Council, Parliament would have made it clear in the legislative debates. Nothing to this effect was said in the debates: at [45], [46].10 The Court accepted that the specific intent of the legislative amendments leading to the current iteration of s 87 was to streamline the timelines and processes of investigations. The Court’s interpretation did not detract from this purpose; the timeline set out in s 87(1A) addressed the issue of the possible delay of referring a matter to the IC. Further, allowing the Council to refer a matter back to the IC would be in the interest of due process – which was also a concern emphasised in the Parliamentary debates: at [47]. 10 On the Second Issue, the Court held that there was no prima facie case of misconduct against Ms Kwa. The threshold to establish a prima facie case was whether there was some evidence, which was not inherently incredible, that would establish each essential element in the alleged offence if such evidence were to be accepted as accurate. The court’s role was to review the determination by the IC and Council, and consider whether there was material to support charges for the possible misconduct: at [48], [49]. 11 There was no evidence to suggest that the Testator intended for the Wills to be destroyed physically. Ms Kwa had explained to the IC that the word “destroy” was her own word, which she used to refer to the act of invalidating a will. Ms Kwa would also need to refer to the cancelled Wills, as the Testator had from time to time asked her about the contents of his previous Wills. Ms Kwa had never destroyed a will in the presence of the Testator, but only drawn a line through them. Further, when Ms Kwa e-mailed the beneficiaries of the Estate, she had attached the copies of superseded Wills. Insofar as Ms Kwa was concerned, there was no inconsistency between using the word “destroy” in relation to the Wills and keeping the cancelled copies of the Wills. There could be no real doubt that the Testator knew that Ms Kwa had kept the physical copies of the cancelled Wills, as he himself had asked about the contents of his prior Wills. In fact, when the Testator was presented with the seventh will, he was told that this was the same as the first will. Hence, there was no prima facie case with respect to the First Complaint: at [50] to [53]. This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
