
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE7 March 2022Case summary[Phoenixfin Pte Ltd and others v Convexity Ltd  [2022] SGCA 17Civil Appeal No. 31 of 2021]--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Judith Prakash):Outcome:  CoA dismisses appeal against decision by the High Court to set aside part of an arbitral award. Pertinent and significant points of the judgmentIn arbitration proceedings generally, pleadings are not determinative in the same way in which they may be in court litigation as parties are always at liberty to agree to an unpleaded issued being dealt with in an arbitration. When the court has to consider if a party has been afforded natural justice, the point to be determined is whether the party was given a fair opportunity to deal with that issue. While an issue that surfaces in the course of an  arbitration and which is known to parties need not be specifically pleaded in order to come within the arbitral proceedings, the pleadings may play a significant role in determining if the opportunity to adequately address an issue has been given.  1 This was an appeal by the appellants against the decision of the High Court to set aside part of an arbitral award on the basis that there had been a breach of natural justice, that the arbitral tribunal had exceeded the scope of submission to arbitration, and had acted contrary to the arbitral procedure agreed. Background to the appeal2 The respondent had entered into an agreement with the first appellant to provide IT security consulting services (“the Agreement”). The first appellant sought to terminate the agreement, alleging breach of contract by the respondent. The respondent commenced arbitration proceedings against the appellants on 14 October 2019, in accordance with the arbitration clause in the Agreement, which provided for arbitration in Singapore under the rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (the “SIAC”). 3 The respondent’s claim against the first appellant was for breach of the Agreement. Clause 10.2 of the Agreement generally provided that the first appellant would be liable to pay the respondent a “Make-Whole Amount” in the event of termination under the “Make-Whole Clause”. This amounted to a claim of US$2.8m, after accounting for the interest provided under the “Interest Clause”. 4 On 2 January 2020, a Tribunal was appointed by the SIAC. On 18 May 2020, the first appellant applied to amend its Defence and Counterclaim to include a defence that the amount claimed by the respondent was a penalty (the “amendment application”).The respondent objected to the amendment. On 29 May 2020, the Tribunal gave her ruling disallowing the amendment application. The evidentiary hearings were held from 27 May to 2 June 2020, after which the Tribunal informed parties she would require submissions on the enforceability of the Make-Whole Clause and the Interest Clause (the “penalty issue”), and on 19 August 2020 directed that the respondent produce two of its witnesses for questioning. The respondent did not comply with this direction. 5 On 2 October 2020, the Tribunal issued the final Award (“the Award”) dismissing the respondent’s claim on the basis that the Make-Whole Clause and Interest Clause were unenforceable as penalties.The decision below6 Following the Award, the respondent commenced OS 1158/2020 to set aside part of the Award in relation to the Tribunal’s decision to dismiss its claim on the basis that the Make-Whole Clause and the Interest Clause were unenforceable penalty clauses. The High Court Judge (the “Judge”) found that there had been a breach of natural justice as the respondent was denied the opportunity to address its objections to the penalty issue. The Judge also found that the Tribunal had erroneously thought that the parties had agreed to introduce the penalty issue into the arbitration. The prejudice caused by this breach of natural justice could not be cured by the Tribunal affording the respondent the opportunity to submit further evidence on the issue and have its witnesses return for questioning. Further, the Judge found that the penalty issue was outside the scope of submission to arbitration, and the relevant sections of the Award should be set aside. Finally, the Judge found that the procedure adopted was contrary to the parties’ agreed procedure. The appellate court’s grounds of decision7 A breach of natural justice had been occasioned, as the respondent did not have the full opportunity to address the penalty issue. The penalty issue was not pleaded and was not an active issue until the Tribunal had attempted to re-introduce it (at [40] – [42]). 8 Even if the respondent had notice of the penalty issue, this did not mean that the respondent had the burden  of leading evidence on the issue when it was not an active issue in the arbitration. The Tribunal’s ruling did not clearly show that the penalty issue had been admitted into the scope of the arbitration (at [43], [45]). 9 Whether a particular provision is a proscribed penalty clause is an issue of mixed law and fact, which cannot be addressed solely by legal submissions. The first appellant was also aware that the penalty issue needed to be pleaded and that it involved factual as well as legal issues (at [46]). 10 The Tribunal’s reintroduction of the penalty issue was at odds with her dismissal of the amendment seeking to plead the penalty issue. The respondent had reasonably interpreted the dismissal of the amendment to mean that the penalty issue was not within the scope of the arbitration proceedings (at [47] – [48]). 11 The Tribunal could not override the fact that she had dismissed the amendment application by, after the end of the evidentiary hearing, giving the respondent a chance to present its case on the penalty issue. In arbitration proceedings generally, pleadings are not as determinative as in court litigation, as arbitration is consensual and parties can agree to introduce unpleaded issues. However, where a specific issue had already been rejected by the Tribunal, the respondent would not have had a fair opportunity to address it (at [49] – [50], [53])12 While an issue arising in the course of an arbitration and which is known to parties need not be specifically pleaded, when the court has to consider if a party has been afforded natural justice, the question is if the party was given a fair opportunity to deal with an issue. If it is a legal issue, time for legal submissions is required. If it is an issue of fact or mixed fact and law, a party needs to be able to question the evidence produced in support of the issue and be able to produce rebuttal evidence. Pleadings may play a significant role in determining if the opportunity has been afforded to parties, by providing clarity as to the issues being raised (at [51] – [52]).13 In order to determine if the Make-Whole Clause and the Interest Clause were penalty clauses, the Tribunal would have had to consider the legal points as well as the evidentiary material. No such evidence was led by the appellants, nor were the respondent’s witnesses cross-examined on the issue. Accordingly, the respondent were not given an opportunity to respond to the appellants’ case at the evidentiary hearing (at [54]).14 The Tribunal could not make a finding on the penalty issue, which was a question of mixed law and fact, as the issue was unpleaded and no evidence had been led on it. (at [64]). 15 The burden of proof is on the party challenging a contractual clause to show why the clause is a penalty. The rejection of the amendment application by the Tribunal meant that there was no factual basis to support the penalty issue. By directing for further submissions and for the respondent’s witnesses to give further evidence, the Tribunal had placed the evidentiary burden on the respondent. The Tribunal’s approach further suggested that she had a preconceived view on how to decide the issue. Accordingly, the Tribunal’s decision had been in breach of natural justice, and the Award had been correctly set aside (at [66] – [70]). 16 The Tribunal’s directions for the penalty issue to be addressed and to recall the respondent’s witnesses for questioning constituted a departure from the parties’ agreed procedure. This denied the respondent an adequate opportunity to respond to the penalty issue. Accordingly, the Tribunal had acted in breach of the arbitral procedure (at [73] – [76]). This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
