
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE2 March 2022Case summaryCSDS Aircraft Sales & Leasing Inc v Singapore Airlines Ltd [2022] SGCA(I) 3 Civil Appeal No 46 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  Where a plaintiff pleads for specific performance and damages for breach of contract in the alternative, no election in the sense of an abandonment of the right to elect to terminate the Agreement for prior repudiatory breaches will be found (at [25] and [27]).•  The Court expressed the preliminary view that where a plaintiff pleads solely for specific performance of a contract, it is unlikely that this circumstance in itself is sufficient to constitute an affirmation of the contract such that the defendant’s prior repudiatory breaches are waived (at [3] and [48]).Background to the appeal1 The appellant, CSDS Aircraft Sales & Leasing Inc (“CSDS”), is a company incorporated in the US and based in California. The respondent, Singapore Airlines Limited (“SIA”), is a company incorporated in Singapore. 2 On 19 September 2018, SIA and CSDS entered into an Aircraft Purchase Agreement (“the Agreement”) for the sale of one Boeing B777-212 aircraft (“the Aircraft”). By cl 11 of the Agreement, the governing law was that of England. The purchase price of the Aircraft was US$6.5m. CSDS had paid a deposit of US$250,000 and a sum of US$6.25m remained outstanding (“the Outstanding Sum”). Despite CSDS agreeing to make payment of the Outstanding Sum on a series of dates, it did not do so 3 On 31 October 2018, SIA instituted proceedings in the High Court. In SIA’s first set of pleadings, SIA sought an order for specific performance and in the alternative, damages to be assessed. This first set of pleadings was served on CSDS on 2 November 2018 (California time). On 4 November 2018, SIA’s solicitors wrote to CSDS (“DN’s 4/11/2018 Letter”) to terminate the Agreement. On 5 November 2018, SIA amended its pleadings to remove its claim for specific performance. This second set of pleadings was served on CSDS on 5 November 2018 (California time). 4 On 13 August 2019, proceedings were transferred to the Singapore International Commercial Court. In its defence, CSDS relied on the decision in The Public Trustee v Pearlberg [1940] 2 KB 1 to argue that SIA’s service of the first set of pleadings constituted an affirmation of the Agreement with the effect that all prior repudiatory breaches by CSDS (if any) were waived. By way of counterclaim, CSDS pleaded instead that by DN’s 4/11/2018 Letter, SIA was itself in repudiatory breach. 5 The International Judge (“Judge”) found that SIA was not electing to affirm the Agreement when it served the first set of pleadings but was leaving its options open to terminate the Agreement and claim damages for breach of contract. CSDS’s continuing failure to pay was cumulative in its effect as repudiatory conduct which would make DN’s 4/11/2018 Letter good as a letter of termination. In any event, the Judge found that subsequent conduct by CSDS after the second set of pleadings was served made it plain that CSDS would not make payment and this also constituted repudiatory conduct, which SIA accepted thereafter. 6 CSDS appealed against the Judge’s decision.The decision of the Court7 The Court held that where a plaintiff pleaded for specific performance and damages for breach of contract in the alternative, no election of the type argued for by CSDS (in the sense of an abandonment by SIA of its right to elect to terminate the Agreement on the basis of CSDS’s prior repudiatory breaches, thereby choosing to affirm the Agreement) would be found. The Court agreed with the Judge that the present case was unlike Pearlberg as the first set of pleadings clearly contained a claim for specific performance as well as an alternative claim for damages for breach of contract (at [25] and [27]). Consequently, there could have been no clear and unequivocal election by SIA to affirm the Agreement when it served the first set of pleadings (at [30] and [33]). 8 The Court expressed the preliminary view that where a plaintiff pleaded solely for specific performance of a contract in its first set of pleadings, it was unlikely that this circumstance in itself was sufficient to constitute an affirmation of the contract such that the defendant’s prior repudiatory breaches were waived. In the present case and assuming that SIA’s first set of pleadings contained a plea for specific performance only (which was not the situation on the facts before the Court), the Court was of the view that there was no such affirmation of the Agreement by SIA. Something more would be required to make it unjust to CSDS, in the circumstances then existing, before the Court would be prepared to find that SIA had elected to affirm (at [3] and [48]).9 For the above reasons, the Court affirmed the Judge’s decision that CSDS was in repudiatory breach of the Agreement, which repudiatory breach SIA accepted by DN’s 4/11/2018 Letter. The Court also affirmed the Judge’s finding that CSDS was in any event in repudiatory breach of the Agreement after the second set of pleadings was served, which SIA had accepted thereafter. In the circumstances, CSDS’s counterclaim must also fail (at [49], [52]–[54]). The appeal was therefore dismissed.This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.
