
SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE24 February 2022Case summaryDong Wei v Shell Eastern Trading (Pte) Ltd and another [2022] SGHC(A) 8Case number, i.e. Civil Appeal No. 14 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Decision of the Appellate Division of the High Court (delivered by Justice Belinda Ang Saw Ean):Outcome: The Appellate Division (the “court”) gives the grounds of its decision for dismissing the appeal heard on 3 November 2021. Pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  The court observed that the term of mutual trust and confidence, held by the High Court in numerous cases to be implied into all contracts of employment, has not clearly been accepted by the Court of Appeal. The court therefore expressly reserved this point for the Court of Appeal to resolve in a more appropriate case.•  The appeal was dismissed not only on the facts but also for the reason that the appellant had suffered no loss as a matter of law, for which the respondents could be held liable.1 This was an appeal against the dismissal of various claims for damages. Background 2 The appellant was a Senior Freight Trader with the first respondent (“Shell”), and the second respondent (“Lim”) was his line manager. In January 2018, the appellant’s employment was terminated, and he brought various claims against the respondents. These claims were dismissed at trial, and the court heard and dismissed his appeal on 3 November 2021. These are the grounds of its decision: at [1] to [3].The facts3 On 29 September 2017, the appellant made a call to a gas oil trader (“Balota”) with Vitol Asia Pte Ltd (“Vitol”), an energy and commodities trading company. The trader informed his chartering manager (“Jones”) about the call, who in turn, came under the impression that the appellant had attempted to market a cheaper ship directly to the trader. Not only was it in breach of market convention for a ship chartering department to contact a trader directly, the appellant also subsequently stated that he did not even have a vessel or freight space to offer Vitol: at [4] to [5].4 Jones subsequently met Lim and informed him about the incident. He made two allegations: (a) that the appellant attempted to market a third-party vessel to Vitol, seemingly belonging to the appellant’s “friend’s company”; and (b) that there was an incident in 2016 where a third-party shipbroker, First Fleet, had contacted Vitol to offer a vessel for cargo, the existence of which had only been made known to the appellant. The appellant had previously been investigated for allegedly showing favouritism to First Fleet in 2015, and again in 2016, for allegedly receiving gifts from them. Though these earlier allegations were unsubstantiated, Shell found that there was, in the round, basis to commence an investigation into Jones’ two allegations, during which, the appellant was suspended with full pay: at [5] to [8].5 The investigation concluded on 21 November 2017, and it was found that the allegations were “inconclusive”, though not “unsubstantiated”. This conclusion was reached because, though there was no positive evidence of wrongdoing, there was equally no explanation for why the appellant would have called Balota in the first place. The appellant was not informed of the investigation’s outcome despite a statement in his letter of suspension that he would be so informed, nor was he relieved from suspension. Whilst he remained on suspension, on 29 November 2017, S&P Global Platts (“Platts”) sought Shell’s comments on rumours that it was investigating the appellant for corruption. Shell declined to comment and on 12 December 2017, Platts published an article which stated that Shell had been investigating “unethical dealings” and “corruption” in its tanker chartering team (the “Platts Article”). The article noted that at least one employee had been placed on leave. The appellant was the only member of the team placed on leave at the time: at [9] to [11].6 On 18 January 2018, Shell terminated the appellant’s employment, and paid him three months’ salary in lieu of notice. The appellant then attempted to obtain other chartering jobs, but on his account, he was unable to do so because employers were aware that the Platts Article related to him. They were unwilling to engage him unless and until those allegations were cleared. The appellant thus brought multiple causes of action in tort and for breach of contract, to recover the losses he suffered from: (a) his allegedly wrongful suspension, as well as Shell’s mismanagement of the investigation (the “First Head of Loss”); (b) his termination, which he alleged to be wrongful (the “Second Head of Loss”); and (c) the reputational harm he suffered, as well as his inability to obtain new employment as a result of the untruths in the Platts Article (the “Third Head of Loss”): at [12] to [17].The court’s grounds of decision7 In respect of the First and Second Heads of Loss, the court explained that the appellant had failed to establish that he suffered any legally remediable loss. One, he had been suspended with full pay, and he did not appeal against the Judge’s dismissal of his claim that Shell mismanaged the investigation. As such, there was simply nothing to remedy in this regard. Two, the appellant had been terminated with pay in lieu of notice pursuant to an express termination clause in his contract of employment. It is a principle of law that, where an employee’s employment is terminated, the extent of damages he can recover is limited to the amount he would have been able to earn had his employer lawfully terminated his contract. Since the appellant had received pay in lieu of notice pursuant to this contract, an application of this principle provided that he suffered no other recoverable losses. The appellant’s counsel urged the court to reconsider this principle, but the court rejected his argument as an unacceptable direction to develop the law: at [20] to [24] and [83] to [93]. In any event, the court also found that the appellant’s allegations of tortious wrongdoing and breach of contract had not been made out on the facts: at [25] to [47].8 As regards the Third Head of Loss, the appellant couched his claim on two bases: (a) that Shell negligently failed to protect the confidentiality of the investigation, which resulted in the publication of the Platts Article; and (b) that Shell failed to disclose the outcome of the investigation to him, thus preventing him from clearing his name with new potential employers: at [48] to [49]. The court rejected both bases. First, the appellant sought to rely on an evidential presumption to establish Shell’s negligence. The court explained that such presumption was inapplicable to the present type of case, but in any event, that even if it had been applicable, it would not have been engaged on the facts. The appellant could not prove that Shell was the source of the alleged leak of confidential information: at [50] to [57]. Second, the appellant only claimed that Shell wrongfully failed to disclose the outcome of the investigation to him. It was not his case that suchinformation was required to satisfy potential employers of the status and outcome of the investigation: at [58] to [59].9 On appeal, the appellant raised two further claims directed at recovering the Third Head of Loss. The first was that, seeing as how the investigation had concluded by the time Platts wrote to Shell, the latter was obliged to and should have answered Platt’s query in such a way as to dispel the misinformation apparent from the phrasing of the query. The second claim was that Shell was obliged to provide him a formal letter clarifying that the outcome of the investigation was “inconclusive”. The court declined to consider either on the grounds that these were matters which should have been pleaded and put to Shell at trial. In any case, the appellant did not establish that a formal letter as described would have made a material difference to the prospective employers: at [60] to [64].10 The appeal was therefore dismissed in its entirety: at [65].Postscript: The court’s observations on employment contracts11 As a postscript to the grounds of its decision, the court made an observation on the law of employment contracts. In the decision of Cheah Peng Hock v Luzhou Bio-Chem Technology Ltd [2013] 2 SLR 577, the High Court accepted that in all such contracts, there is an “implied term of mutual trust and confidence” (the “implied term”). This concept, borrowed from the English common law, imposes a “portmanteau general obligation” on employers and employees “not to engage in conduct likely to undermine the trust and confidence required if the employment relationship is to continue in the manner the employment contract implicitly envisages”. Numerous other High Court cases have accepted this as the law in Singapore, and the Judge below also took the view that this was established by the Court of Appeal’s decision in Wee Kim San Lawrence Bernard v Robinson & Co (Singapore) Pte Ltd [2014] 4 SLR 357 (“Wee Kim San”): at [70] to [72].12 The court considered these cases and explained that the legal position was not so clearly established on the authority of Wee Kim San. First, Wee Kim San did not formally endorse the existence of the implied term. Second, its discussion of the implied term was substantially limited by the procedural and factual context of the case. One, the case concerned an application to summarily strike out the appellant’s (an employee) claims on the basis that the implied term had been breached. It did not concern a fully tried dispute. Two, the Court of Appeal only considered the case before it on the hypothetical basis that the implied term existed in Singapore law, to explain that – even if that were the law – the appellant’s claims would still be legally unsustainable: at [73] to [74].13 The court then went on to set out, briefly, the historical origin of the implied term in the unique context of the United Kingdom’s legislative framework, and acknowledge the strong rejection of the term by the High Court of Australia (“HCA”) on this basis: at [75] to [77]. The court did not fully agree with the HCA, and observed that the implied term could exist independently of such a legislative framework, which does not exist in Singapore: at [78] to [79]. Nevertheless, given its view that Wee Kim San did not settle the issue, the court expressly stated that the status of the implied term remains an open question to be resolved by the Court of Appeal in a more appropriate case: at [80] to [82].This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of decision.
