supreme court of singapore21 february 2022case summarysic/s 3/2020 larpin, christian alfred and another v kaikhushru shiavax nargolwala and another [2022] sghc(i) 4--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by roger giles ij):outcome: the sicc dismissed the buyers’ claim for rescission of agreements for the purchase of shares giving rights to a villa and damages on the ground of misrepresentations and ordered costs in favour of the sellers. background and facts1 the case arose out of the sale of a luxury villa, villa 29 (“the villa”), in the andara resort (“the resort”) in phuket, thailand. 2 the defendants, mr kaikhushru nargolwala and mrs aparna nargolwala, acquired the villa in 2007. for reasons of thai property law, they acquired it through the ownership of all the shares in querencia ltd (“querencia”), a british virgin islands (“bvi”) company, which held the key title rights to the villa. 3 on occasions, the villa was rented by mr solomon lew. in september 2017, mr lew decided to purchase the villa and negotiations towards a purchase took place with the nargolwalas through mr daniel meury, the resort’s general manager. 4 in late october 2017, the first plaintiff, mr christian larpin, became interested in acquiring the villa, and negotiations towards a purchase took place with the nargolwalas through mr martin phillips, a real estate agent in phuket. these negotiations were ultimately successful. mr larpin purchased the villa, by purchase of the shares in querencia, through the second plaintiff, quo vadis investments limited (“quo vadis”), for us$7,900,000. on 9 november 2017, a reservation agreement was executed between the nargolwalas and quo vadis. on 14 november 2017, the parties executed a share purchase agreement, and the sale was completed over the next two days. 5 late on 14 november 2017, after the execution of the share purchase agreement, the nargolwalas became aware that mr lew claimed that he had a binding agreement with the nargolwalas to purchase the villa and was threatening litigation. on 15 november 2017, the nargolwalas told mr larpin of the claim and threat, saying that they believed the claim was unsustainable, and offered the opportunity to delay or abort and unwind the transaction. mr larpin said he would proceed. 6 mr lew later brought “freezing” proceedings in the bvi, and proceedings in singapore against the nargolwalas, quo vadis, mr larpin and querencia, claiming that a binding oral contract of sale had been reached between him and the nargolwalas on 11 october 2017. the singapore proceedings were dismissed by the singapore international commercial court and the decision was upheld on appeal.7 in this case, the plaintiffs sought rescission of the reservation agreement and the share purchase agreement, and to recover as damages the costs of the bvi and singapore proceedings in excess of the costs awarded to them, on the basis of fraudulent misrepresentations. they claimed that in the course of mr lew’s proceedings they became aware of matters that had occurred in the negotiations through mr meury towards a purchase by mr lew, which they said were “actively concealed” from them. had they known of the matters, the plaintiffs said, they would not have purchased the villa.the court’s judgment 8 the plaintiffs maintained a case of active concealment and appeared to accept that for active concealment it was necessary that the defendants dishonestly concealed the truth with the intention to mislead the plaintiffs (“dishonest intention”) (at [46]).9 in a case of failure to disclose facts, silence can produce a false representation that a previous statement is true if there is a duty to disclose facts which, if disclosed, would materially affect the truth of the previous statement. if there is no previous statement, if there is a duty to disclose the facts, failure to disclose them can produce a false representation that the facts do not exist (at [36]). such a duty can arise out of the relationship of the parties and/or other circumstances in which the silence is maintained and is to be assessed by reference to how a reasonable person would view the silence in all the circumstances (at [35], [37]).10 the court doubted the need for dishonest intention in this case. there is no requirement that all cases of misrepresentation by failure to speak or disclose be cast in the mould of active concealment or that (whatever may be the position in a true case of active concealment) dishonest intention is a necessary ingredient in all cases where representation by failure to speak or disclose is alleged (at [51]). the court therefore separately addressed the duty to disclose and dishonest intention (at [53]). 11 the plaintiffs pleaded a number of representations, called the 8 november representations, the 14 november representations, and the 15 november representations.the 8 november representations12 the plaintiffs claimed that by actively concealing what were called material facts (said to indicate an arguable agreement to sell the villa to mr lew), the defendants represented that as at 8 november 2017 (at [97]):a. there were no issues in relation to them selling the villa to the plaintiffs, and there were no possible adverse claims in respect of the villa by any third party (“representation 1”); andb. pursuant to cl 1.1 of the reservation agreement, the villa could be sold to quo vadis on an as-is where-is basis, and the consideration of us$7.9m was based on the assumption that the villa could be acquired from the defendants on a debt-free basis, free from any encumbrance (“representation 2”).13 the court found that neither representation was made as an actionable representation (at [125]).14 representation 1 was pleaded far wider than could come on any view from failure to disclose the material facts. the court held that a representation that there was no possible adverse claim of an arguable agreement to sell to mr lew was not conveyed (at [105]–[106]). to a reasonable person in the position of the nargolwalas, or assessing their position, as at 8 november 2017, there was no more than failed negotiations with a potential purchaser (at [108]–[110]). 15 representation 2 was not a representation of fact but a representation as to the effect in law of cl 1.1. it was difficult to find any implied factual statements in representation 2 (at [112]–[116]). even if representation 2 was made by failure to disclose the material facts, it was not made as an actionable representation of fact (at [117]). in any event, there was no duty to disclose the material facts, such that failure to do so brought the representation that the villa could be acquired free from any encumbrance. first, there was no real significance of the material facts to the representation (at [118]). second, where there was no duty to disclose the material facts as facts indicating an arguable agreement to sell the villa to mr lew, there was also no duty to disclose the arguable agreement (as the encumbrance) lest mr larpin be misled into thinking that he could acquire the villa free from any encumbrance (at [121]).16 if this was incorrect and there was a duty to disclose, there was no dishonest intention on the part of the nargolwalas (at [123]).the 14 november representations17 the plaintiffs claimed that by actively concealing the material facts and what were called the further material facts from the plaintiffs, the defendants made the same representations as representations 1 and 2 but as at 14 november 2017 (ie, representations 3 and 4), and also represented that as at 14 november 2017 (at [144]):a. pursuant to cll 1.1, 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the share purchase agreement, the villa, could be sold to quo vadis free from all liens, charges and encumbrances (“representation 5”);b. pursuant to cl 4.2.8 of the share purchase agreement, there was, amongst others, no other legal proceedings pending, or threatened, against, or involving querencia, or the business of querencia (“representation 6”);c. pursuant to cl 4.2.11 of the share purchase agreement, all information relating to querencia which would materially affect the sale and purchase of the villa had been disclosed to quo vadis (“representation 7”).18 the material time, for the purposes of rescission of the share purchase agreement, was prior to its execution. the court found that that none of the representations was made as an actionable representation (at [157]). the nargolwalas only became aware that mr lew claimed that there was a binding agreement to sell the villa to him after the share purchase agreement had been executed. they could not have failed to disclose something which they did not know, and only the material facts were relevant as the further material facts occurred thereafter (at [146]). representations 3 and 4 were in the same position as representations 1 and 2. representations 5, 6 and 7 were not made as actionable representations of fact (at [147]–[153]). in any event, taking the representations as put in submissions, the circumstances were not such that a reasonable person would say that there were pending or threatened legal proceedings against or involving querencia or its business, or information which would materially affect the sale and purchase of the villa, which should be disclosed to mr larpin lest he be misled in himself purchasing the villa, or that it was represented by a failure to disclose the material facts that there were no such matters (at [154]).19 if there was a duty to disclose, there was no dishonest intention on the part of the nargolwalas (at [156]).the 15 november representations20 the plaintiffs claimed that, by actively concealing the material facts and the further material facts from the plaintiffs, the defendants made the same representations as representations 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7 but as at 15 november 2017 (ie, representations 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12), and also represented to the plaintiffs that as at 15 november 2017 (at [171]): a. mr nargolwala had received a threatening email from someone on 14 november 2017, who was alleging that he had seen the villa, and made an offer to purchase it (“representation 13”); andb. the defendants had never met the person, had not accepted any offer whatsoever in relation to the villa from the person, and had not signed any contract with the person, and the person’s claim in respect of the villa was unsustainable (“representation 14”).21 the court found that only representations 13 and 14 had been made. representation 8 was not made by active concealment, or at all. mr nargolwala told mr larpin on 15 november 2017 that there was an issue in relation to the sale of the villa and that there was an adverse claim (at [175]). representation 9 was also not made as an actionable representation of fact for the same reason: if mr lew’s claim was an encumbrance, it was disclosed (at [176]). as to representations 10, 11 and 12, as with representations 5, 6 and 7, there were no representations of fact, and the representations could not sensibly be found from silence or failure to disclose the material facts or the further material facts when mr larpin was told that there were legal proceedings threatened against or involving querencia (at [177]). representation 13 was made but was true and could be ignored (at [178]). representation 14 was also made, save that in relation to sustainability what was said was that the nargolwalas believed that mr lew’s claim was unsustainable (at [179]).22 looking at the substance of the plaintiffs’ complaint, although departing from the pleading, a reasonable person would not consider that the nargolwalas should have themselves volunteered and explained to mr larpin their dealings with mr lew, or volunteered the email in which mr lew asserted his claim and threatened litigation (at [180]). to the extent that there was a failure to disclose, it was not with dishonest intention (at [181]).23 as to representation 14, it was true save that the plaintiffs submitted that the defendants did not believe that mr lew’s claim was unsustainable. the court rejected the submission and found that the representation was not false (at [184]–[188]).  24 the plaintiffs’ claim therefore fell at the hurdle of misrepresentation (at [189]). the court went on, however, to make findings and express views on some further matters, on the assumption that dishonest intention was not necessary for the representations. these were, in summary:a. that even if the material facts had been disclosed prior to the execution of the share purchase agreement, mr larpin would still have entered into the share purchase agreement (at [195]); although if the representation that the defendants believed mr lew’s claim was unsustainable had been false, on the balance of probabilities may have led to an agreement to abort and unwind the transaction or have a protective provision added (at [196]);b. that none of the representations, if found to have been made, was made fraudulently (at [197]–[200]);c. that there would not have been affirmation by mr larpin choosing to proceed with the share purchase agreement (at [201]–[204]);d. that if there had been innocent misrepresentation, the plaintiffs were still not assured of obtaining rescission or damages (at [205]–[208]); ande. that as a matter of law, and without expressing any view as to the bvi costs, the costs in excess of the costs awarded were not recoverable (at [209]–[217]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.