supreme court of singapore10 january 2022case summarycarlsberg breweries a/s v csapl (singapore) holdings pte ltd [2022] sgca(i) 2civil appeal no 18 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice of the court of appeal andrew phang boon leong):outcome: coa allows the appeal against the decision of the judge below on the basis that the respondent had failed to comply with a best efforts obligation. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  in the context of an obligation to use best efforts to procure a result, the obligor has a duty to do everything reasonable in good faith with a view to procuring the contractually-stipulated outcome within the time allowed. this involved taking all those reasonable steps which a prudent and determined man, acting in the interests of the obligee and anxious to procure the contractually-stipulated outcome within the available time, would have taken. moreover, the test for determining whether a “best endeavours” obligation has been fulfilled was an objective one. critically for present purposes, an obligor could not just sit back and say that it could not reasonably have done more to procure the contractually-stipulated outcome in cases where, if it had asked the obligee, it might have discovered that there were other steps which could reasonably have been taken: at [71] and [72].•  there were further efforts which the respondent might have taken in satisfaction of its best efforts obligation, but it had failed to do so. once the obligee pointed to certain steps which the obligor could have taken to procure the contractually-stipulated outcome, the burden would ordinarily shift to the obligor to show that it took those steps, or that those steps were not reasonably required, or that those steps would have been bound to fail: at [81].•  while the respondent’s behaviour between 9 and 25 april 2019 was perhaps unsurprising given the backdrop of open hostilities having broken out following its commencement of arbitration against the appellant on 18 april 2019, that did not detract from the respondent’s obligation under cl 2(c) to undertake “best efforts” to procure the contractually-agreed outcome: at [83] and [84].background to the appeal1 this appeal arose out of a decision by the international judge (the “judge”) in carlsberg breweries a/s v csapl (singapore) holdings pte ltd [2021] 4 slr 1 (the “judgment”) dismissing a claim by the appellant (“carlsberg”) for repayment of a loan extended by carlsberg to the respondent (“csaplh”) under the terms of a loan agreement entered into on 23 december 2010 and subsequently amended by addenda dated 24 september 2013 and 31 october 2013 (“the loan agreement”). carlsberg’s claim for repayment was based on alleged breaches of a deed of undertaking dated 12 april 2018 (“the deed of undertaking”). these breaches were said to entitle carlsberg to terminate a deed of release of the same date (“the deed of release”), and to declare all outstanding amounts under the loan agreement immediately due and payable. it was not disputed that if the deed of undertaking was breached, carlsberg would be entitled to terminate the deed of release.2 the deed of undertaking and the deed of release arose in the context of a us$40m loan extended by carlsberg to csaplh under the terms of the loan agreement. this loan was provided for the purpose of enabling csaplh to pay carlsberg for a 40% shareholding in a joint venture vehicle, carlsberg south asia pte ltd (“csapl”). csapl owns shares in a nepali subsidiary, gorkha breweries pvt ltd (“gbpl”). 90% of the shares in gbpl were held by csapl, while a 9.94% holding was registered in the name of one rajendra kumar khetan (“rkk”), a nepali businessman. the small balance of shares outstanding was held by individual nepali shareholders who were not relevant to the appeal. it was also noted that csapl, through a holding company, also owned shares in an indian subsidiary, carlsberg india pvt ltd (“cipl”), which played a subsidiary part in the dispute. 3 carlsberg alleged that csaplh had breached cl 2(c) of the deed of undertaking (“cl 2(c)”), which provided that csaplh would “use its best efforts to ensure that the director appointed by [rkk] to the board of directors of [gbpl] attends all meetings of the board of directors of [gbpl]”. in particular, pradeep prakash khetan (“ppk”), who was at all material times the director appointed by rkk to the board of gbpl, did not attend the board meetings of gbpl on 26 february, 25 march, 26 april, and 1 july 2019.4 the central question was thus whether csaplh had complied with cl 2(c) by using its best efforts to ensure that ppk attended the meetings in question. before the judge, carlsberg argued that cl 2(c) had been breached because (a) csaplh had colluded with ppk to merely pretend to persuade ppk to attend the board meetings, and (b) csaplh could have done more in relation to the third and fourth board meetings to persuade ppk to attend.5 the judge found that there had been no breach of the “best efforts” clause in cl 2(c), and that there had thus been no breach, at least in relation to cl 2(c), of the deed of undertaking which would warrant revoking the release from loan liabilities in the deed of release. accordingly, the judge dismissed carlsberg’s claim for repayment of the balance of the loan. in particular, the judge rejected any suggestion that csaplh (through its ultimate controller, chandra prakash khetan (“cpk”)) and ppk had colluded or created a sham performance of cpk trying to convince ppk to attend the board meetings. critically, the judge concluded that ppk’s “fundamental” concern was with a change in gbpl’s sales model to cut out middlemen wholesalers and reach out to retailers directly (the “rtm model”), and stated that a deep-seated objection to the rtm model itself “lay at the heart of [ppk’s] expressed general concern”.6 on appeal, carlsberg argued that, inter alia, (a) the judge had erred in finding that csaplh had not colluded with ppk, (b) the judge’s finding that ppk’s fundamental concern was with the rtm model was without basis, and (c) that csaplh had not discharged its obligations under cl 2(c) because it could have done more to persuade ppk during the period from 9 to 25 april 2019.the court of appeal’s decision7 the court of appeal allowed ca 18 of 2021. 8 the court was unpersuaded that there was sufficient evidence to overturn the judge’s finding that there had not been collusion between ppk and csaplh. first, all the evidence carlsberg pointed to in that regard was purely circumstantial. while this was not fatal – and was in some senses unsurprising given the difficulty of establishing collusion – the fact remained that carlsberg had not done enough in the cross-examination of csaplh’s witnesses to construct a case that there had been collusion. second, it could not be said that the evidence carlsberg pointed to on appeal had been ignored by the judge below, nor could it be said that carlsberg had succeeded in establishing, to the relevant appellate standard, that the judge’s findings of fact were against the weight of the evidence, or manifestly wrong. the court was thus prepared to reject, upfront, carlsberg’s first contention on appeal. there was inadequate basis to overturn the judge’s findings on this point: at [64]. 9 in his judgment, the judge was categorical in his view that ppk’s “fundamental” concern was with the rtm model which carlsberg’s directors on the board of gbpl had advocated. however, this conclusion was not sustainable. first, csaplh did not in fact plead that ppk had a concern with the rtm model, much less a fundamental concern with the said model. there was no suggestion to that effect in the entirety of csaplh’s pleadings. second, the rtm model had been introduced in stages across different geographical regions. however, ppk did not, in any of his e-mail correspondence, ever suggest that he objected to the model itself, nor did he voice any objections to the progressive roll-out of the model. in fact, ppk only made reference to the rtm model’s flaws once in his entire oral evidence. third, and in any event, there was no real evidence to show that ppk was in fact fundamentally motivated by his objections to the rtm model. the correspondence csaplh sought to rely on in this regard did not support that position at all: at [67] and [68].10 there was not only insufficient evidence to show that the rtm model was ppk’s fundamental concern, there was even less evidence to show that ppk’s objection to the rtm model was what caused him to deliberately refuse to attend board meetings. a further consequence of this conclusion was that it cast doubt on the judge’s finding that anything more which csaplh might have done in furtherance of its obligations under cl 2(c), particularly between 9 to 25 april 2019, would have been futile: at [69] and [70]. 11 in relation to the content of the best efforts obligation under cl 2(c), parties correctly referred to the court of appeal’s decision in ks energy services ltd v br energy (m) sdn bhd [2014] 2 slr 905. in the instant case, the court emphasised that the obligor has a duty to do everything reasonable in good faith with a view to procuring the contractually-stipulated outcome within the time allowed. this involved taking all those reasonable steps which a prudent and determined man, acting in the interests of the obligee and anxious to procure the contractually-stipulated outcome within the available time, would have taken. moreover, the test for determining whether a “best endeavours” obligation has been fulfilled was an objective one. critically for present purposes, an obligor could not just sit back and say that it could not reasonably have done more to procure the contractually-stipulated outcome in cases where, if it had asked the obligee, it might have discovered that there were other steps which could reasonably have been taken. once the obligee pointed to certain steps which the obligor could have taken to procure the contractually-stipulated outcome, the burden would ordinarily shift to the obligor to show that it took those steps, or that those steps were not reasonably required, or that those steps would have been bound to fail: at [71] and [72].12 carlsberg argued in this appeal that more could have been done between 9 and 25 april 2019 to persuade ppk to attend the 26 april 2019 meeting, and that csaplh’s failure to do so constituted a breach of cl 2(c). the judge had dealt with this period mainly by reference to ppk’s supposedly fundamental objection to the rtm model, which, the judge reasoned, would have rendered any further efforts during that period futile. in the court of appeal’s view, there were three premises which had to be established for carlsberg’s argument in this regard to be tenable. first, csaplh or its directors must have known on 9 april 2019, or at the very least had reason to suspect, that ppk did not intend to attend the 26 april 2019 board meeting. second, carlsberg had to be able to demonstrate that reasonable steps could have been undertaken, and that the steps sought would have had at least a significant or real prospect of success. third, and closely linked to the second requirement, the actions that csaplh allegedly ought to have taken cannot have been futile: at [73] and [74].13 turning to the first premise, one of csaplh’s directors, mr jagetia, must have known, or at the very least had reason to suspect, following his meeting with ppk on 9 april 2019, that ppk either did not intend to attend the 26 april 2019 board meeting, or was seriously contemplating not doing so. this was evidenced by affidavit evidence from ppk and mr jagetia: at [75].14 as for the second and third premises, it was clear that in circumstances where mr jagetia learned on 9 april 2019 that ppk either did not intend to attend the 26 april board meeting, or was seriously considering not attending that meeting, csaplh could have done more to persuade ppk to attend that meeting. in particular, as carlsberg pointed out, csaplh could have attempted to talk to and persuade ppk in the period from 9 to 25 april 2019. yet, no such attempt at communication was made. moreover, csaplh could have informed carlsberg of its discovery or even its suspicions that ppk might not attend the board meeting, and asked for carlsberg to aid in the efforts to persuade ppk to attend the same. yet, again, no such steps were taken. furthermore, and assuming that mr jagetia did not inform cpk about ppk’s intentions, mr jagetia could at the very least have informed cpk about those intentions. this would have given an opportunity for cpk to speak to ppk, his cousin, and seek to persuade him in the period between 9 and 25 april 2019 to attend the 26 april 2019 board meeting. as matters stood, there was nothing whatsoever in cpk’s evidence as to any communication between him and ppk during that period: at [80].15 there were thus at least three further efforts that csaplh could have made following the meeting of 9 april 2019 – discussing ppk’s concerns with him, informing carlsberg of ppk’s concerns and working on a unified approach to those concerns, and keeping cpk apprised so that he could offer his input on how to persuade ppk. yet, none of these steps was taken. moreover, while the judge supported his conclusion regarding the futility of any further efforts by a finding that mr jagetia’s failure to, at any point, provide further information to satisfy ppk’s concerns was “because he knew, from conversations with ppk and cpk, that it would make no difference”, counsel for csaplh clarified at the hearing of the appeal that csaplh was not taking the position that it ever gained the impression from ppk or thought that ppk was unpersuadable, and that this was why, even after 21 july 2019, csaplh continued efforts to secure his attendance. accordingly, the judge’s finding that any further efforts would have been futile did not appear to be defensible: at [81].16 while csaplh’s behaviour between 9 and 25 april 2019 was perhaps unsurprising given the backdrop of open hostilities having broken out following csaplh’s commencement of arbitration against carlsberg on 18 april 2019, that did not detract from csaplh’s obligation under cl 2(c) to undertake “best efforts” to procure ppk’s attendance at board meetings. csaplh simply could not be said to have complied with that obligation on the instant facts. csaplh was thus in breach of its obligations under cl 2(c), and carlsberg was accordingly entitled to terminate the deed of release. all outstanding amounts under the loan agreement thus fell due and payable: at [83] and [84].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.