supreme court of singapore27 october 2023case summarywkr v wkq [2023] sghc(a) 35appellate division of the high court – civil appeal nos 107 and 108 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by valerie thean j):outcome: the appellate division of the high court allowed the appeal. pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  in an application under s 47 of the probates and administration act 1934 (the “paa”), the court has the discretion to refuse to reseal a foreign grant of probate or letter of administration in special circumstances, even if the requirements under s 47 of the paa are made out: at [39] and [67]. •  where a caveator objects to the resealing of a foreign grant on the ground that an applicant had procured the foreign grant by fraud, the court should consider whether the caveator’s allegations constitute extrinsic or intrinsic fraud, before determining whether to exercise its discretion to refuse to reseal the foreign grant on the grounds of fraud: at [64] to [71].background to the application and material facts1 on 10 january 2021, a man who was born in mulhouse, france, died intestate in málaga, spain (the “deceased”). the appellant is the deceased’s father (the “father”). the respondent (“mdm wkq”) contends to be the deceased’s wife on the basis of an alleged wedding solemnized in spain on 25 april 2014, but this was disputed by the father. the deceased had two children with mdm wkq. the deceased also had two other children with one “mdm y”.2. in june 2021, the father applied in the ajman federal court for the deceased’s inheritance certificate in the united arab emirates (“uae”). the ajman federal court ruled in favour of the father and issued a decree on 27 september 2021 (the “uae court decree”) which stated that the deceased’s estate was to be divided as follows: (a) one-sixth to the father; (b) one-sixth to the deceased’s mother; (c) one-eighth to mdm wkq; and (d) the remainder to the deceased’s four children in the ratio of 2:1 in favour of the male children. the uae court decree also granted the father administrative rights of the assets for the deceased’s four minor children, as well as guardianship over the four children. on 30 september 2021, mdm wkq filed an appeal against the uae court decree. her appeal was dismissed on 7 february 2022. 3. in the meantime, and without giving any notice to the father, mdm wkq applied ex parte in probate case no 3163 of 2021 (“probate case 3163”) to administer the estate of the deceased in the supreme court of the republic of vanuatu on 21 september 2021, premised on the vanuatu citizenship that the deceased and she had acquired on 27 february 2019. mdm wkq obtained a grant of letters of administration in vanuatu on 10 november 2021 as the deceased’s wife (the “vanuatu grant”). under the vanuatu grant, mdm wkq was entitled to one-third share of the deceased’s estate, and their two children were entitled to the remainder two-thirds of the estate in equal shares.4. on 22 february 2022, again without notice to the father, mdm wkq filed an ex parte originating summons in the family justice courts of singapore, hcf/p 112/2022 (“p 112”), for the vanuatu grant to be resealed in singapore. 5. on 29 march 2022, the father filed a caveat in hcf/cavp 11/2022 (“cavp 11”) objecting to mdm wkq’s resealing application in p 112 on the ground that the vanuatu grant was not lawfully obtained and that mdm wkq was not a lawful beneficiary. on 27 april 2022, the father filed a summons for directions, by way of hcf/sum 123/2022 (“sum 123”) in cavp 11, for a stay of proceedings in p 112 pending the conclusion of the proceedings in vanuatu challenging the vanuatu grant. 6. on 5 may 2022, the father filed civil case no 832 of 2022 (“civil case 832”) in the vanuatu supreme court to quash the vanuatu grant. the grounds of his challenge in civil case 832 were that: (a) the deceased and mdm wkq were never married under the civil law or sharia law in any jurisdiction; (b) mdm wkq had made a false declaration of marriage in vanuatu; and (c) the deceased was domiciled in uae and not in vanuatu. 7. on 11 august 2022, the vanuatu supreme court struck out the father’s application in civil case 832 for failing to comply with procedural requirements. subsequently, the father sought to appeal against the vanuatu supreme court’s decision in the vanuatu court of appeal, but his appeal also failed on procedural grounds. on 26 october 2022, the father’s vanuatu lawyer filed a notice of discontinuance in the vanuatu court of appeal indicating that the father had discontinued the proceedings against mdm wkq in vanuatu. 8. on 24 november 2022, the parties appeared before a judge of the general division of the high court (family division) (the “judge”) in singapore for the hearing of sum 123 (the “24 november 2022 hearing”). the judge was apprised of the fact that the father had discontinued his appeal in vanuatu. the judge therefore dismissed the father’s stay application in sum 123 and granted mdm wkq an order in terms for her resealing application in p 112.9.  on 25 november 2022, the father requested to make further arguments before the judge. he stated that the 24 november 2022 hearing was confined only to sum 123 and that the judge should not have gone on to adjudicate on p 112. the father also stated that the issue of domicile was relevant in p 112 and that he was prepared to make submissions on that. on 29 november 2022, the judge rejected the father’s request for further arguments.10.  on 9 december 2022, the father filed ad/ca 107/2022 (“ad 107”) to appeal against what he framed as the judge’s decision to remove the caveat in cavp 11. on 12 december 2022, the father filed ad/ca 108/2022 (“ad 108”) to appeal against the judge’s decision to grant the resealing order in p 112.the decision below11. the judge issued his grounds of decision on 8 march 2023. for sum 123, the judge held that the father had only sought to stay the resealing application until the proceedings contesting the vanuatu grant were concluded. given that the vanuatu proceedings had already been concluded at the time of the 24 november 2022 hearing, the judge dismissed sum 123 and proceeded to adjudicate on the resealing application in p 112.12. the judge held that the threshold issue for the resealing application was whether the deceased was domiciled in vanuatu at the time of his death. the judge first considered the relationship between mdm wkq and the deceased. the judge found that mdm wkq was the deceased’s lawful wife because: (a) the deceased had regarded mdm wkq as his wife in his application for vanuatu citizenship; (b) the vanuatu authorities regarded mdm wkq as the deceased’s wife when they granted her vanuatu citizenship as the deceased’s spouse; (c) the uae court regarded mdm wkq as the deceased’s wife in the uae court decree; and (d) even the father had acknowledged in the uae proceedings that mdm wkq was the deceased’s wife. 13. the judge then found that the deceased was domiciled in vanuatu at the time of his death. the judge reasoned that the deceased had included mdm wkq and their older child in his application for vanuatu citizenship and that it was unlikely that the deceased intended to settle in a country apart from his wife and children.14. the judge also noted that the resealing order he had granted was an ex parte order which could be set aside if fuller evidence and submissions were presented to the court at a later time.the decision of the court 15. as a preliminary issue, the court first found that the judge’s order for resealing was not an ex parte order. although mdm wkq initially filed p 112 as an ex parte application, the father had thereafter filed a caveat in cavp 11 and a summons for direction in sum 123. the matter was then effectively deemed to be contested under r 239(16) of the family justice rules 2014 (“fjr”). the judge had two options in adjudicating the contested probate matter under r 240 of the fjr – to dispose of the matter in dispute in a summary manner, or direct the matter to proceed to trial. unfortunately, the matter was clouded by the fact that sum 123 merely sought a stay of p 112 until the proceedings contesting the vanuatu grant were concluded. accordingly at the hearing, the judge dismissed sum 123 because the vanuatu proceedings were no longer alive. he then granted the resealing application in p 112. the judge must be taken to have dealt with the contested matter summarily when he ordered a resealing of the vanuatu grant on 24 november 2022. an appeal would be the only method to set aside the order: at [46] to [47].16. rule 242(b) of the fjr provides that a caveat in respect of which a summons for direction has been issued would “remain in force until the commencement of a probate action or the making of an order for the caveat to cease to have effect”. in summarily granting the resealing order, the judge had effectively ordered the father’s caveat in cavp 11 to cease to have effect. consequently, the father was also entitled to appeal against the judge’s decision in cavp 11 by way of ad 107: at [47].17. ad 107 and ad 108 were integrally related. the question on appeal, therefore, was whether the judge’s summary order should be upheld, or the contested issues sent for trial: at [48].18. the court found that there were triable issues as to whether the deceased was domiciled in vanuatu at the time of his death. this was because, inter alia, (a) the deceased had a resident identity card in the uae which had not expired at the time of his death; (b) the father had adduced a copy of an immigration search in vanuatu which suggested that the deceased and mdm wkq had never entered vanuatu; (c) mdm wkq did not adduce any evidence of her alleged matrimonial property with the deceased in vanuatu; and (d) the birth certificate of the deceased’s and mdm wkq’s older child stated that the deceased and mdm wkq had been domiciled in spain as of 13 february 2017. in the circumstances, the judge should not have made a summary determination as to the deceased’s domicile: at [55] to [63].19. in relation to the father’s allegations that mdm wkq had procured the vanuatu grant by fraud, the preliminary question was whether the singapore court could refuse to reseal a foreign grant on the grounds of fraud. although fraud is not an express ground to refuse to reseal a foreign grant under s 47 of the probate and administration act 1934 (the “paa”), the court found that the statutory language of s 47(1) of the paa confers the court the discretion to refuse to reseal a foreign grant in special circumstances, even if the express requirements under s 47 had been met: at [39] and [67].20. this is consonant with singapore’s approach towards the enforcement of foreign judgments. where a defendant alleges that a plaintiff had procured a foreign judgment by fraud, the singapore court will examine whether the alleged fraud constitutes intrinsic or extrinsic fraud. the former pertained to fraud going to the jurisdiction of the foreign court and the latter pertained to fraud going to the merits of the foreign court’s judgment. both extrinsic fraud and intrinsic fraud are potential grounds on which the singapore court may refuse to enforce a foreign judgment, with the only difference being that for intrinsic fraud, the defendant must adduce fresh evidence of fraud and show that it could not have been obtained with reasonable diligence at trial. the court held that the resealing of a foreign grant involves similar considerations as the enforcement of a foreign judgment and a like approach should be adopted for resealing applications under s 47 of the paa: at [64] to [71].21.  on the facts, the court found that there were triable issues as to whether mdm wkq had procured the vanuatu grant by fraud. specifically, the court found that there were triable issues as to whether mdm wkq was lawfully married to the deceased. the court reasoned that (a) while mdm wkq relied on a vanuatu extract of her marriage certificate with the deceased (the “vanuatu certificate”) to prove her marriage in spain, she was unable to produce her original marriage certificate that had been issued in spain; (b) mdm wkq did not offer any explanations as to the alleged falsities contained in the vanuatu certificate; (c) the father had adduced a certificate of celibacy from the department of justice in spain which suggested that there was no marriage celebrated by mdm wkq and the deceased in spain between 25 april 2014 and 11 february 2022; and (d) mdm wkq offered no explanations to the father’s allegations that she had been convicted and sentenced to one-year imprisonment in algeria for forgery and for providing false information in the vanuatu proceedings. the court found that these were triable issues which could potentially have an impact on the vanuatu court’s jurisdiction in issuing the vanuatu grant: at [72] to [77]. 22. apart from the marital status of mdm wkq and the deceased, the father had also alleged that: (a) mdm wkq lied to the vanuatu court that the deceased only had vt$1,000,000 of cash (equivalent to approximately s$11,000) and no other assets; (b) mdm wkq deliberately omitted to mention that the deceased had two other children; and (c) mdm wkq withheld information concerning the uae proceedings and the uae court decree which had identified the beneficiaries under the deceased’s estate. the court noted that while these allegations appeared to pertain to the merits of the vanuatu court’s decision, they had not been tested in the vanuatu courts and ought not to have been disposed of summarily: at [78].23.  consequently, the court allowed the father’s appeals in ad 107 and ad 108 and set aside the judge’s orders below. the court directed mdm wkq to file a writ in singapore to prove her entitlement to the resealing of the vanuatu grant. despite the father’s success in the appeals, the court ordered each party to bear his and her own costs of these appeals and of the hearing before the judge. this was because neither party provided proper assistance to the judge below and the father’s poor framing of his applications in cavp 11 and sum 123 introduced unnecessary complexity to the matter: at [79] to [80].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.