supreme court of singapore24 december 2021case summarychua yi jin colin v public prosecutor [2021] sghc 290 criminal motion no 69 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the high court (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: high court declines to exercise revisionary powers to set aside district judge’s decision to vary gag order to disclose applicant’s identity. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  a state court has the power to vary or lift a gag order imposed under s 7(3) of the state courts act (cap 321, 2007 rev ed) (“sca”) (at [21]–[27]).•  the victims’ views on the disclosure of an accused person’s identity are an eminently relevant consideration when the court exercises its discretion to impose and/or fashion a gag order under s 7(3) of the sca (at [33]–[45]).background facts1 the applicant was charged for filming voyeuristic videos of various women. district judge adam nakhoda (“district judge nakhoda”) granted a gag order under s 7(3) of the sca. as the victims of the offences were the applicant’s classmates, schoolmates and friends, the gag order covered not only the victims’ identities but also that of the applicant. 2 after the prosecution tendered additional charges against the applicant, he faced a total of 19 charges under s 509 of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) (“pc”) for insulting the modesty of a woman and one charge under s 30(1) of the films act (cap 107 1998 rev ed) (“fa”) for possession of obscene films. on 14 january 2020, the prosecution applied to vary the gag order to permit the disclosure of only the applicant’s identity (“the first application”). of the 12 victims who had been identified by then, ten were in favour of such disclosure. as for the two remaining victims, one had reservations over the disclosure sought (“the 11th victim”) while the other was abroad and, in accordance with her family’s wishes, had not been contacted (“the 12th victim”). district judge nakhoda dismissed the first application as the 11th victim and the 12th victim had not unequivocally consented to the risk that they might be identified if the applicant’s identity was disclosed.3 the 11th victim subsequently changed her mind and supported the disclosure of the applicant’s identity. the prosecution also withdrew four of the charges under s 509 of the pc, one of which pertained to the 12th victim. there were no other charges involving the 12th victim.4 the applicant subsequently pleaded guilty before district judge tan jen tse (“district judge tan”) to seven charges under s 509 of the pc and a charge under s 30(1) of the fa. the remaining eight charges were taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. the 11 victims named in the charges furnished victim impact statements in which they unanimously expressed support for the gag order to be varied so that the applicant’s identity would not be covered thereunder. the prosecution applied for the gag order to be varied accordingly (“the second application”), and district judge tan granted the application (“district judge tan’s order”). 5 the applicant then filed this application, urging the court to exercise its revisionary powers to set aside district judge tan’s order. he argued that district judge tan’s order was likely to lead to the identification of the victims and, more generally, that the victims’ views were irrelevant to the imposition and scope of a gag order.the high court’s grounds of decision6 a state court had the power to vary or lift a gag order imposed under s 7(3) of the sca for three reasons (at [21] and [27]). first, it followed from s 27(3) of the interpretation act (cap 1, 2002 rev ed) that a state court’s power to make gag orders under s 7(3) of the sca necessarily included the power to amend, vary, rescind, revoke or suspend such orders (at [22]). 7 second, district judge nakhoda’s refusal to vary the gag order at the hearing of the first application was not final and irrevocable since it did not engage the doctrine of res judicata (at [23]). the court’s power to make a gag order under s 7(3) of the sca did not go towards the merits of the case at hand but was instead an ancillary power intended to assist the court in its ultimate task of adjudication. such ancillary powers could only serve their proper function if they could be amended or rescinded in the light of changing circumstances (at [25]). moreover, the second application could not have been barred by the “extended” doctrine of res judicata. although the issue of the disclosure of the applicant’s identity was ventilated in both the first application and the second application, it was material that all 11 victims expressed their support for such disclosure only in the second application (at [24]).8 third, the court’s power to amend or revoke a gag order lay primarily in its original jurisdiction, which encompassed matters incidental or ancillary to its trial jurisdiction. if the court’s power to vary or rescind a gag order lay exclusively in its revisionary jurisdiction, as the applicant’s counsel contended, that would entail the illogical conclusion that a gag order imposed by the high court at first instance could never be varied or revoked (at [26]).9 the prosecution should have conveyed the victims’ stance towards the disclosure of the applicant’s identity by way of affidavits rather than victim impact statements (at [31]). nevertheless, as the improper use of the victim impact statements did not occasion any failure of justice, the court declined to set aside district judge tan’s order on this ground (at [32]).10 the court’s discretion to issue a gag order under s 7(3) of the sca was a derogation from the principle of open justice enshrined in s 7(1) of the sca. such a derogation was justified on two principal grounds. first, gag orders encouraged witnesses and victims to testify candidly by shielding them from public scrutiny. second, gag orders spared victims the further trauma of unwanted public scrutiny and embarrassment, which, in turn, encouraged them to report offences. it followed from the purpose of gag orders that they were imposed solely for the protection of victims or witnesses and never for the benefit of accused persons (at [36]).11 even though the sca did not expressly permit the court to take the victims’ views into account, s 7(3) of the sca was a discretionary provision that inherently allowed the court to consider the victims’ views when exercising that discretion (at [42]–[43]). district judge tan thus rightly took into account the victims’ unanimous consent to the disclosure of the applicant’s identity in allowing the second application (at [45]).12 the victims’ views were an undoubtedly relevant factor that had to be weighed in the balance (at [38] and [44]). where the victims consented to the disclosure of an accused person’s identity and to the heightened risk of their identification, the concern over their protection carried less force. more weight would typically be accorded to the public interest in open justice, and the balance would ordinarily tilt in favour of disclosure (at [38]). more importantly, the continued suppression of the accused person’s identity in such cases might well compound the victims’ distress, thereby undermining the very purpose of a gag order (at [39]–[41]).13 the victims had compellingly detailed their reasons for supporting the disclosure of the applicant’s identity, which included: (a) their desire to prevent other women from falling prey to the applicant; (b) the fact that such disclosure would enable unidentified victims to come forward and seek help; (c) the fear that their friends and/or family might also be victims of the applicant’s offending, which added to their own suffering; and (d) their anguish at knowing that the applicant could hide behind a cloak of anonymity while they lived in constant fear (at [48]–[50]). far from protecting the victims, the gag order on the applicant’s identity only served to re-victimise them (at [50]).14 in the light of the victims’ unequivocal and unanimous support for the disclosure of the applicant’s identity, there was no countervailing interest that outweighed the principle of open justice (at [51]). the 12th victim’s interests were irrelevant to the present inquiry as she was not a witness in the pending proceedings (at [53]). even though the applicant purported to be acting in the victims’ best interests, he was, in truth, urging the court to maintain the gag order on his identity for his own benefit (at [3] and [51]). 15 accordingly, the court dismissed the application (at [55]). the application was wholly self-serving and was bound to fail since the applicant could not point to any injustice, much less any serious injustice, that would befall him. the court therefore ordered the applicant to pay costs of $2,000 to the prosecution (at [57]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.