supreme court of singapore[23 december 2021]case summarycivil appeal no 50 of 2021vishnumangalam chandrasekharan renuka v yeow jen ai susan and another [2021] sghc(a) 25--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by justice woo bih li):outcome: the appellate division sets aside a decision that allowed a non-registered owner’s claim to a beneficial interest in immovable property. 1 this dispute concerned a property at 32 jalan rengkam, singapore 537585 (“the property”), which was registered in the sole name of the second respondent (“h”). h was married to the appellant (“w”) and the two were undergoing divorce proceedings in fc/d 5697/2018. the first respondent (“y”) was a female friend of h.background and parties’ cases2 the property was purchased in march 2008 under h’s sole name for $1.7m. in 2019, y filed an originating summons in the general division of the high court to claim an interest in the property. h was named as the defendant but he supported the claim of y. y and h both alleged that at the time of the property’s purchase, there was an oral agreement between them (the “alleged oa”). this alleged oa supposedly contained the following terms:(a) firstly, the property was to be held in h’s sole name to “save costs on stamp duties and higher yearly property tax”.(b) secondly, when the selling price of the property rose to $3.5m, the property was to be sold and the sale proceeds were to be shared between y and h according to the contributions made by each of them towards the property’s purchase and its other related expenses.(c) thirdly, y and h were to contribute to the initial payments for the property’s purchase. y was to pay for the property’s mortgage loan repayments and related expenses.3 based on the contributions allegedly made by each of them, y and h claimed that their respective shares in the property were 73% and 27% respectively.4 on her part, w denied the existence of the alleged oa and the contributions allegedly made by y pursuant to that agreement. w thus intervened in the action in order to resist y’s claim. w further claimed an interest in the property on the basis that she had contributed money to its purchase.5 the judge below (the “judge”) found that y had established the existence of the alleged oa. he thus held that there was a common intention constructive trust in favour of y to the extent of 73% of the property. the judge declined to make any order in respect of w’s claim as he was of the view that it was irrelevant to the determination of y’s claim, and that it should be dealt with during the division of matrimonial assets in the divorce proceedings between h and w.6 w filed the present appeal against the judge’s decision, contesting both the judge’s determination of y’s share in the property and the judge’s decision not to rule on her claim to the property.decision on appeal7 the appellate division of the high court (the “ad”) considered the two main issues on appeal, as follows:(a) whether the judge erred in declining to decide on w’s share in the property; and(b) whether the judge erred in his determination of y’s share in the property.8 as to the first issue, the judge did not err in declining to rule on w’s claim to the property. the present action was an originating summons brought by y for a declaration as to her share in the property. w had intervened in the action in order to challenge y’s claim. accordingly, y’s claim was the central issue in the action and y was not concerned in the dispute between h and w in respect of w’s interest in the property. had the judge heard evidence and submissions on w’s claim, this would have been a distraction from y’s claim, which was the main issue at hand.  the ad thus dismissed w’s appeal for a decision in respect of her own interest in the property as that would be addressed in the divorce proceedings (at [18] to [21] and [64]). 9 on the second main issue, y had failed to prove the existence of the alleged oa. the ad allowed w’s appeal on, inter alia, the following grounds:(a) the judge had placed undue emphasis on the fact that y had made monthly transfers of money to h in order to conclude that the alleged oa existed. however, the fact that y had made such transfers to h did not necessarily mean that this was done pursuant to the alleged oa. the key issue was what the purpose of these transfers was. specifically, the question was whether these transfers were made pursuant to the alleged oa, as the judge found, or for some other purpose (at [31] to [32]). the judge had dismissed w’s suggestion that y’s monthly transfers of money to h were simply loans or gifts, considering it to be mere speculation on w’s part. however, there was in fact evidence that y had been lending significant sums of money to h. the judge had overlooked the close relationship between y and h as well as their own evidence that she had separately lent him a significant sum of $480,000 without getting anything in return (at [34] to [36]).(b) it was a central feature of the alleged oa that at the time of the property’s purchase in march 2008, y and h had both agreed that this would be a joint investment. however, h had previously filed affidavits in the divorce proceedings with w which contradicted this central feature (at [38] to [51]).(c) furthermore, y had shifted her evidence about the alleged oa in a material respect. it was incumbent on y to explain why she was not included as a legal co-owner of the property if there was indeed an agreement at inception that the property's purchase was to be a joint investment between her and h. initially, y explained on affidavit that she already had a property of her own, and she stated as a matter of fact that having a second property “would” attract a much higher stamp duty when purchasing the property. she later changed tack, however, by saying that there was only “speculation” that such stamp duties might be imposed. there was a material difference between the fact that higher stamp duty would be imposed, and mere speculation that it might be (at [52] to [56]). y and h did not adduce any evidence showing that there was speculation in early 2008 about such higher stamp duty being imposed, and what exactly the speculation was about. in the circumstances, it seemed to the ad that the judge had erred in accepting y’s explanation about such speculation without more (at [57] to [58]).10 since the ad rejected the existence of the alleged oa, it followed that contrary to the judge’s holding, there was no common intention constructive trust over the property in favour of y (at [61]). the judge’s decision in favour of y was therefore set aside and y’s claim to a beneficial interest in the property was accordingly dismissed (at [64]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.