supreme court of singapore29 november 2021case summaryanan group (singapore) pte ltd v vtb bank (public joint stock company) [2021] sgca 112civil appeals no 23 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice steven chong):outcome: coa upholds high court’s dismissal of company’s application for petitioner to bear liquidators’ remuneration and expenses after aborted winding up. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  a liquidator’s remuneration and expenses do not constitute “costs” under the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev ed) and the supreme court of judicature act (cap 322, 2007 rev ed) (at [73]–[85]).•  the court has the power to order a petitioner to bear the remuneration and expenses of a liquidator in the event of an aborted winding up. this power is part of the court’s inherent powers (at [94]).•  the court may exercise its power to order a petitioner to bear a liquidator’s remuneration and expenses if there is fault on the part of the petitioner. the heart of the inquiry is whether the petitioner has acted in a manner that would render it unfair for the company to bear the liquidator’s remuneration and expenses (at [106]).background to the appeal1 the appellant, anan group (singapore) pte ltd (“anan”), and the respondent, vtb bank (public joint stock company) (“vtb”), entered into a contract (the “gmra”) for the sale and repurchase of global depository receipts of shares. the arrangement under the gmra was in substance a loan from vtb to anan. the gmra contained an arbitration agreement (the “arbitration clause”), which stipulated that any dispute arising out of or in connection with the gmra shall be referred to arbitration.2 on 12 april 2018, vtb sent anan a notice of default, alleging events of default under the gmra. then, on 23 july 2018, vtb served on anan a statutory demand for the sum of us$170m. this statutory demand was not satisfied, and on 17 august 2018, vtb filed hc/cwu 183/2018 (“cwu 183”) to the high court, seeking to wind up anan. vtb succeeded before the high court, and liquidators (the “liquidators”) were appointed to facilitate anan’s winding up. 3 on 7 april 2020, the high court’s decision was reversed on appeal in ca/ca 174/2018 (“ca 174”): see anan group (singapore) pte ltd v vtb bank (public joint stock company) [2020] 1 slr 1158 (“anan (ca)”). the winding up order against anan was thus set aside. sometime after the decision in anan (ca), the parties commenced an arbitration (the “arbitration”), in which anan sought damages from vtb for its breach of the arbitration clause.4 on 13 august 2020, the liquidators filed an application to the high court, seeking to be paid their remuneration and expenses incurred during anan’s aborted liquidation (the “liquidators’ fees”). then, on 9 september 2020, anan filed hc/sum 3902/2020 (“sum 3902”), seeking an order that vtb is liable to bear the liquidators’ fees.5 the high court judge (the “judge”) allowed the liquidators’ application but dismissed sum 3902. anan appealed against the judge’s dismissal of sum 3902, via ca/ca 23/2021 (“ca 23”). on 14 november 2021, the court of appeal heard ca 23 and reserved judgment.the court’s judgmentwhether the dispute was to be referred to arbitration6 the orders that anan sought in ca 23, and anan’s claim in the arbitration for damages for breach of the arbitration clause, are two distinct claims with different legal bases. in the former, anan sought an award of costs. in the latter, anan is seeking contractual damages. the principles for the award of costs, and the principles surrounding the award of contractual damages, are conceptually different. consequently, although the dispute over the liquidators’ fees could fall within the scope of the arbitration (as a claim arising from the breach of the arbitration clause), this did not oust or displace the court’s jurisdiction to adjudicate on the dispute over whether vtb should be ordered to bear the liquidators’ fees as costs (at [46] and [52]–[54]).7 there was no risk of inconsistent pronouncements, notwithstanding the ongoing arbitration. any pronouncement by the court, pursuant to its powers to order costs or otherwise, would not create any res judicata in respect of anan’s contractual claim for breach of arbitration agreement. while there appeared to be an overlap in the subject matter – namely, both ca 23 and anan’s claim in the arbitration involved the liquidators’ fees – any relief ordered in ca 23 would not be one that arose as a consequence of a contractual breach. the converse is true: any order made by the arbitral tribunal, if it rules in anan’s favour, will be one for contractual damages. in other words, any decision by the court will not result in “a declaration or determination of a party’s liability and/or his rights or obligations leaving nothing else to be judicially determined” in the arbitration (at [55] and [56]).8 in practical terms, there was also no risk of anomalous outcomes. this was clear when considering the various outcomes of the appeal. if the court found in favour of anan and ordered vtb to bear the liquidators’ fees, anan will likely not be able to recover such fees as part of its claim for damages in the arbitration since anan would not have suffered any loss in respect of the fees. if the court found in vtb’s favour, and ordered anan to bear the liquidators’ fees, anan will likely pursue vtb for these fees as part of its claim for damages for breach of the arbitration clause. such a claim will be determined as a contractual claim in the arbitration (at [57]).whether “costs” included a liquidator’s remuneration and expenses9 it was common ground between anan and vtb that the prayers sought in ca 23 by anan involved an invocation of the court’s adjudicatory, and not supervisory, jurisdiction. it remained necessary to draw a distinction between the adjudication of ca 174, and the adjudication of ca 23. ca 174 concerned whether the winding up order in cwu 183 could be sustained, and upon determination of that issue, who should bear the legal costs of that appeal. ca 23 involved a posterior and distinct question of who was to bear the expenses arising out of anan’s aborted liquidation. consequently, in ca 23, the court was not exercising its adjudicatory jurisdiction to award costs in ca 174 (at [66]–[68], [70] and [71]).10 more importantly, the liquidators’ fees were not “costs” under the supreme court of judicature act (cap 322, 2007 rev ed) (“scja”). nothing in the scja expressly confers the court with the power to order a party apart from the company to bear a liquidator’s remuneration. while the word “costs” in para 13 of the first schedule to the scja (“para 13”) may be undefined, it was clear that it does not encompass a liquidator’s remuneration. section 18(2) of the scja read with para 13 merely specify that the court has the power to award costs (at [72]–[74]).11 the meaning of “costs” in o 59 of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev ed) (“roc”) could not inform the meaning of “costs” in the scja. there was no canon of interpretation that allows subsidiary legislation to inform the meaning of primary legislation. even assuming the roc could inform the meaning of the scja, anan did not show that “costs” in the roc includes a liquidator’s remuneration. in fact, the position was to the contrary as o 1 r 2(2) of the roc expressly excluded the application of the roc to winding up proceedings. if the roc excluded winding up proceedings, it could not then be said that any provision therein contemplated the very expenses that are incurred in the course of such excluded proceedings (at [75]–[80]).12 while anan relied on australian legislation and case law to support its case, the australian position was inapplicable to singapore. the relevant foreign statute, namely s 98(1) of the civil procedure act 2005 (new south wales) (the “nsw act”), did not exclude winding up proceedings, unlike o 1 r 2(2) roc (at [81]–[83]).the court’s power to order a petitioning creditor to bear a liquidator’s fees and expenses13 although the court concluded that liquidators’ remuneration did not fall within the rubric of costs under the scja or the roc, this did not mean that the court was left without the power to make the order sought by anan. the power resided in the court’s inherent powers under o 92 r 4 of the roc (at [88] and [94]).14 the courts are entitled to rely on their inherent powers in such situations, because they involve an area in which no statutory provision applies. the scja and the roc were clearly inapplicable, as explained. the statutory insolvency regime in the companies act also did not apply. the relevant companies act provisions, namely ss 268(3), 311 and 328(1)(a), provided that upon appointment by the court and performance of their roles, liquidators are entitled to reimbursement for their reasonable remuneration and expenses, payable by default out of the assets of the wound-up company in priority to the company’s other debts. but these provisions did not discuss whether a petitioner may be made liable to, or may be ordered to indemnify, a liquidator for his/her remuneration and expenses (at [92] and [94]).15 crucially, the powers concerned are designed to prevent injustice or prevent an abuse of the process in order to remedy unfair situations. the courts have, in various decisions, discussed the various diverse situations in which the invocation of its inherent powers to remedy injustice was appropriate. the common thread in these decisions is that the court’s inherent powers would only be exercised in exceptional circumstances, to do justice or to avert injustice (at [95]).16 the court thus clarified that its power may be understood as follows: where a company is wound up, and the winding up order is reversed on appeal, the court has the power to order the petitioning creditor(s) to bear a part or the whole of the liquidator’s remuneration and expenses. the court will consider all the facts of a given case before determining whether to exercise this power, including but not limited to the conduct of the petitioner and the company (and its officers) (at [97]).17 the power may be exercised subject to several important caveats (at [98]–[103]). a. the mere fact that a winding up order is reversed will be insufficient to warrant the exercise of the power. the company must be able to point to some fault on the petitioner’s part beyond the reversal of the winding up order to warrant the court’s exercise of its powers. b. further, the statutory provisions governing a liquidator’s claim for his/her remuneration must still be satisfied. that is, the regime under s 268 of the companies act (or s 78 of the irda) remains fully applicable. a liquidator is only entitled to reasonable remuneration. c. next, any order made by the court against a petitioner ought to assume the form of an order for the petitioner to indemnify the company for the remuneration paid to the liquidator. as a starting point, the liquidator must still be paid from the company’s assets pursuant to s 311 of the companies act and s 183 of the irda, which state that a liquidator’s remuneration and expenses “are payable out of the assets of the company”. this crucial point must be observed in order not to subvert the statutory insolvency regime.d. finally, it is open to the court to order a petitioner to indemnify the company partially. the discretionary nature of the court’s inherent powers necessarily implied that the court is fully empowered to make nuanced and measured orders in order to achieve justice. the determination of the appropriate ratio will inevitably be fact-sensitive. it will turn on a variety of factors including the company’s conduct, the petitioner’s conduct and the justice of the case viewed holistically.the threshold for the court’s exercise of its power18 the inquiry is a fact-sensitive one that is fault-based and concerned with unfair conduct on the part of the petitioner. the heart of the inquiry is whether the petitioner has acted in a manner that would render it unfair for the company to bear the liquidator’s remuneration and expenses. this inquiry arises regardless of whether the power is one that arises from the court’s inherent powers or its power to award costs (at [106]).19 the relevance of fault in the inquiry may be gleaned from two starting points. first, the very nature of the court’s inherent powers, which are wide and discretionary, and rooted in the notion of fairness; the object of the power in any case is ultimately to express justice. much will accordingly turn on the facts of a given case, and whether unfairness may be discerned. second, the default position under s 311 of the companies act, which stipulates that the fees and expenses of the liquidator should ordinarily be paid out from the assets of the company. a claim for an indemnity against a petitioning creditor for such fees and expenses is therefore a departure from the default position. any departure would, logically, require justification. such justification, in the court’s view, would typically entail the company demonstrating some fault or unfair conduct on the part of the petitioner. all of the cases cited by anan and vtb were consistent with these starting points. the common denominator was that fault on the part of the petitioner was necessary before the courts would exercise their powers to order a petitioner to bear the liquidator’s remuneration and expenses (at [107]–[117]).20 anan’s position that fault is irrelevant, if accepted, could lead to unfair and unprincipled outcomes. on the one hand, there are cases where the insolvent company succeeds in resisting the winding up application not because of the doubtfulness of the petitioned debt, but for jurisdictional reasons. the facts of anan (ca) provided a paradigm example. anan succeeded in ca 174 because of the arbitration clause in the gmra, coupled with the court’s recognition of the prima facie threshold. but that did not mean that no debt was owed by anan; rather, it simply meant that the disputed debt ought to be contested in the contractual forum. on the other hand, there may be cases where a winding up petition is maliciously brought. this would include cases where the debt in question is doubtful or non-existent, and it would appear that the petitioner had brought the petition for ulterior motives or in abuse of process. also similar to this category would be cases involving deliberate or dishonest non-disclosure of documents during the presentation of the winding up petition. if anan’s contention is accepted, such considerations will no longer be material in examining where the justice of the case lies in order to determine the liability for the liquidator’s remuneration as between the company and the petitioning creditor (at [119]).21 where an abuse of process is established, the elements of unfairness and fault (on the part of the petitioner) will be patent, and this would justify the court’s exercise of the power. however, case law did not set the minimum threshold at the level of an abuse of process. in situations falling below the threshold of abuse of process, much will depend on the facts of the case. even absent an abuse of process, a petitioner can be meaningfully said, in certain scenarios, to have acted unfairly or to have been at “fault”; this much was clear from the case authorities (at [120]–[123]).whether vtb crossed the threshold22 the court declined to exercise its power to make vtb liable for the liquidators’ fees. the complexion of the proceedings below supported the conclusion that vtb did not act with fault. consequently, it could not be said that vtb had acted improperly or in a manner that can be considered unfair or prejudicial to anan (at [124]–[127] and [130]).23  it was highly relevant that the court’s decision in ca 174 arose from an important point of law which had to be settled, in the light of various conflicting high court authorities. this was patent on the face of the decision in anan (ca). this point was critical, as it showed that vtb’s application was not intended to improperly pressurise anan in circumstances where vtb ought to have known that its petition was doomed to fail. it was also important to recognise that the setting aside of the winding up order in ca 174 was the consequence of the court’s recognition of the prima facie threshold and its operation -vis-à-vis the arbitration clause. the decision has no impact on the underlying claim which may ultimately be decided in favour of vtb at the arbitration (at [128] and [129]).conclusion24 for the above reasons, the court dismissed ca 23 and declined to exercise its inherent powers to make vtb liable for the liquidators’ fees. anan was ordered to bear the costs of the appeal.this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.