supreme court of singapore19 november 2021case summarybaker, michael a (executor of the estate of chantal burnison, deceased) v bcs business consulting services pte ltd and others [2021] sghc(i) 14 suit no 3 of 2018 (summons no 37 of 2021)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of quentin loh jad, carolyn berger ij and dominique hascher ij:outcome: sicc grants an anti-suit injunction against the defendants, in relation to certain claims in proceedings commenced by the defendants in california.introduction1 this was an application by michael baker for an anti-suit injunction (“the asi”) to restrain bcs consulting services pte ltd (“bcs”) from continuing to prosecute its claims in the united states district court for the central district of california in the united states of america.background2 the plaintiff, michael baker (“baker”), is the executor of the estate of chantal burnison (“the estate”). chantal was the co-inventor of a compound called “ethocyn” used in various cosmetic and anti-aging skin products. the intellectual property rights in the ethocyn (“the ethocyn rights”) were held by companies controlled by chantal, which entered into bankruptcy proceedings in the us (“the us bankruptcy proceedings”) in february 1999. the ethocyn rights were acquired by renslade new zealand with the approval of the us bankruptcy court in october 1999, and subsequently transferred to renslade singapore, sometime between 2000 and 2001 or 2002 and eventually to bcs on 1 april 2002. 3 in november 2017, the estate commenced the suit (“the suit”) against the defendants (bcs, marcus weber (“weber”) and renslade holdings ltd (“renslade (hk)”)) (collectively, “the defendants”), alleging that the defendants were trustees of the ethocyn rights for the estate, and had breached their fiduciary duties. in august 2019, while the suit was underway, bcs commenced proceedings in the united states district court for the central district of california (“the californian proceedings”) against baker and bcs pharma corporation (“bcs pharma”), alleging that baker had wrongfully diverted payment due to bcs to bcs pharma (“the intercepted payment claim”). the californian proceedings were stayed in june 2020 because of the singapore proceedings.4 the sicc rendered its judgment in baker, michael a (executor of the estate of chantal burnison, deceased) v bcs business consulting services pte ltd and others [2020] 4 slr 85 (“the judgment”) on 29 april 2020. in the judgment, the court held that there was a valid and enforceable trust agreement governed by singapore law as between weber and chantal. chantal was the beneficial owner of the ethocyn rights, and the moneys and income generated therefrom (“the trust assets and trust monies”). the bulk of the trust monies were derived from a supply and distribution agreement between the defendants and one nu skin international inc (“nu skin”). in particular, this court rejected the defence of illegality raised by the defendants. the trust remained valid and enforceable in spite of chantal’s false declaration to the us bankruptcy court to conceal her interest in the transfer of the ethocyn rights from the chantal companies to renslade new zealand. the defendants breached their fiduciary duties, and were ordered to account to the plaintiff for the trust assets and trust monies (“the account”).5 the defendants’ appeal against the judgment (“the appeal”) was dismissed by the court of appeal in january 2021. 6 in march 2021, the us district court lifted the stay on the californian proceedings. bcs then joined chantal’s daughters (“the daughters”) and two companies incorporated by the daughters, one grey pacific labs llc and grey pacific science, inc (“grey pacific companies”) as defendants to the californian proceedings, and included further complaints against baker, bcs pharma, the daughters and grey pacific companies (collectively, “the us defendants”). bcs’ complaints include, inter alia, that baker wrongfully caused all trademark rights related to the ethocyn rights to be conveyed to the grey pacific labs, cutting the defendants out of business (“the trademark claim”), that baker was “judicially estopped” from asserting the existence of the trust in the california courts (“the judicial estoppel claim”), and that baker had wrongfully held himself out as a representative of bcs in reaching a settlement agreement with nu skin (“the wrongful settlement claims”), in addition to the intercepted payment claim.  7 on 14 may 2021, the plaintiff filed a separate application for payment due on the taking of the account (“the accounting application”). on 16 june 2021, the plaintiff made the present application for an anti-suit injunction (“the asi application”).dispute8 the plaintiff made the asi application on the basis that the californian proceedings were a collateral attack on the judgment, as bcs took the position in the californian proceedings that bcs remained the absolute owner of the ethocyn rights, contrary to the sicc’s findings affirming the existence of the trust. bcs’s conduct was therefore vexatious and oppressive, and an asi should be granted.9 bcs, however, argued that it did not seek to undermine the court’s judgment, as the causes of action in the californian proceedings were separate and distinct from those adjudicated upon by the court. the californian proceedings also concerned new facts discovered after the appeal, including the new claims against baker in his personal capacity.  decision10 the jurisdiction to grant an asi was to be exercised when the “ends of justice” require it. the court would consider factors such as the defendant’s amenability to the court’s jurisdiction, the natural forum of the resolution of the dispute between the parties, the alleged vexation or oppression to the plaintiffs if the foreign proceedings were to continue (at [45]–[46]). it would be vexatious and oppressive for a defendant to re-litigate issues decided by the forum court in the foreign proceedings (at [49]). the court would also grant an asi to prevent the abuse of its processes and to protect the court’s own judgment from being undermined by a defendant in the foreign proceedings (at [53]). 11 the court found that the intercepted payment claims were an attempt by the defendants to re-litigate matters already decided in the judgment, contradicting its  findings in the judgment that the trust assets and trust monies belonged to the estate beneficially (at [67]). but with respect to the trademark claims, insofar as they pertained to baker’s holding out as the officer of bcs, that did not amount to re-litigation (at [68]). 12 the judicial estoppel claim was also an attempt to re-litigate the issue of chantal’s false declarations before the us bankruptcy courts (at [69]). it was vexatious to re-litigate issues that could and should have been brought before the forum court (at [70]). the defendants failed to raise the judicial estoppel claim at all, despite having extensively raised the existence, validity and enforceability of the trust under singapore and us laws, including the defence of illegality and public policy as key issues in the suit; all of which arose from the same facts (at [73]–[76]). it was therefore oppressive to allow the defendants to pursue the judicial estoppel claim in the californian proceedings and it was also an abuse of process (at [81]).13 the court did not consider the wrongful settlement claims an attempt at re-litigation, because the facts were uncovered after the appeal concluded (at [82]), and did not concern the ownership of the ethocyn rights (at [83]).14 other factors also leaned in favour of granting an asi. the defendants did not object to the court’s jurisdiction, and willingly participated in the singapore proceedings, including those for the accounting application heard together with the asi application (at [62]). that the california court was the natural forum was immaterial so long as the forum court had sufficient interest with the case. the court had sufficient interest in protecting its judgment from a collateral attack (at [65]).15 as the californian proceedings were at an early stage with discovery yet to be completed, there would be no wastage of resources; the balance of convenience therefore pointed towards granting the asi (at [84]).16 the court held that the asi applied to the other us defendants who were not parties to this suit. the claims against the us defendants were based on bcs’s absolute ownership of the ethocyn rights, which contradicted the court’s findings and threatened to denude the judgment of any real practical effect (at [86]–[89]). conclusion17 in conclusion, the court found that many of bcs’s claims in the californian proceedings were an attempt at re-litigating matters already decided by the court, which were oppressive and vexatious and amounted to an abuse of process, for which an asi was granted (at [90], [92(a)] and [93]). but bcs was allowed to pursue other claims that did not impinge on the findings concerning the existence, validity and/or enforceability of the trust (at [91] and [92(b)]). the court also granted an asi preventing the defendants from prosecuting or continuing to prosecute any proceedings in the united states or anywhere else in the world which pertained to such issues that had been the subject of litigation before the court (at [94]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.