supreme court of singapore11 november 2021case summarym raveendran v public prosecutor [2021] sghc 254 magistrate’s appeal no 9883 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of sundaresh menon cj:outcome: sghc partially allows the appeal.   introduction1 this was an appeal by the appellant, m raveendran (“raveendran”) against the sentence imposed by a district judge (the “dj”) for the offence of driving under the influence of drink pursuant to s 67(1)(b) of the road traffic act (cap 276, 2004 rev ed) (“rta”) (“drink driving”). raveendran also consented to one charge of driving without due care and attention under s 65(1)(a) of the rta being taken into consideration for sentencing. raveendran was sentenced by the dj to one week’s imprisonment and disqualification from driving all classes of vehicles for a period of 24 months. raveendran’s appeal was only in respect of the custodial sentence imposed. 2 specifically, raveendran submitted that the imprisonment term imposed was manifestly excessive and that the appropriate sentence should be the maximum fine of $4,000. he submitted that the dj had erred in finding that the offender-specific factors raised in mitigation did not warrant a reduction in sentence from the indicative starting point of one week’s imprisonment. specifically, the dj should have given weight to the following factors: (a) he had pleaded guilty and made full restitution to the lta; (b) he had remained at the scene and rendered all possible assistance to the attending police officer; (c) he had a strong propensity for reform, as evidenced in his professional record as an army officer and his contributions to the nation; and (d) he was at risk of losing the emoluments which he would otherwise have received from the saf if a custodial sentence were imposed. the primary issue that arose for determination in this appeal was whether raveendran’s potential loss of emoluments, in the event a custodial sentence is imposed on him, was a factor that should be considered by the sentencing court.decision3 the starting position is that an individual who breaches the criminal law generally can and should expect that the law will take its course and that he will have to face the consequences of his actions. this position would only be displaced in exceptional circumstances: at [13].4 the equal impact principle rests on the notion that if an offender suffers from some condition that would render the sentence significantly more onerous for him than for other offenders, a sentencing adjustment may be made so as to avoid such an “undue differential impact” upon him. such an adjustment serves to “eliminate [the] increment in severity” that would otherwise arise as a result of the offender’s condition. this principle is applicable only to factors that are intrinsic or inherent to an offender. intrinsic factors refer to those that inhere in the offender and are part of his person. this would include circumstances such as his mental and physical condition, and his age. these factors exist regardless of the offence or the sentence. in contrast, factors such as the offender’s employment, wealth, or level of education would not be regarded as intrinsic. they may be part of his wider circumstances, but certainly cannot be said to be part of his personal attributes. further, to the extent they are raised in the context of sentencing, it is because of the consequences that the particular sentence would have on the extrinsic factors in question: at [15]. 5 in respect of factors that are intrinsic to an offender, their effects on an offender are limited in scope, and the court can evaluate whether the sentence would cause that offender to suffer disproportionately as compared to other offenders on whom the same sentence might be imposed: at [27]. in contrast, extrinsic factors are downstream consequences that might or would befall the offender because of the imposition of a sentence. if the courts were to take such consequences into account, there would be no logical limits as to when or how these consequences should be factored into sentencing. these consequences cannot meaningfully be considered in this context for at least three reasons. first, it is impossible for the court to place a value on such downstream consequences and to translate the potential financial losses into an appropriate reduction in sentence. the two are simply incommensurable: at [32].6 second, the different potential financial losses that could be faced by offenders cannot meaningfully be compared, given the varied consequences that one could suffer flowing from a particular sentence. third, the consequences that would arise as a result of the sentence will often be indeterminate at the point when the case is heard before the court: at [33]-[34].7 further, taking account of factors that are extrinsic to an offender have nothing to do with the sentencing objectives that the court is obliged to consider in this context, and in fact, is likely to undermine the functioning of the criminal justice system. where factors intrinsic to an offender are concerned, such as his age or ill health, these are considered in terms of how the sentence imposed would be experienced by the particular offender, and whether as a result, the sentence would be disproportionate. the sentencing objectives of deterrence, rehabilitation, prevention and retribution continue to apply, but the operative interests are capable of being achieved through a reduced sentence because its impact on the offender would nonetheless be the same as a heavier sentence would have on a typical offender. such intrinsic factors also do not involve a wider social accounting and do not give rise to discrimination against some groups of offenders over others: at [40]-[42].8 in contrast, taking account of extrinsic factors could result in a fundamental assault on the criminal justice system. if the court were to place weight on factors such as the financial consequences of a particular sentence, and reduce an offender’s sentence on that basis, it would result in the more favourable treatment of certain individuals. it is a matter of fundamental importance that the criminal justice system be designed to work for all people in all circumstances. if this fundamental principle of equality were to be displaced in favour of some offenders, it would undermine and dilute the deterrent effect of the entire system of criminal justice: at [43]-[46].9 the principle of parsimony was rejected as a basis on which the sentence could be reduced. first, the point was not advanced by raveendran. second, the current case law suggests that it is not applicable as a general principle in our courts. third, in any case, the parsimony principle cannot apply to extrinsic factors for reasons that have already been set out in relation to the equal impact principle. in particular, equality before the law is a fundamental principle that cannot be easily displaced: at [49]-[54].10 the principle of judicial mercy cannot be invoked to ameliorate the possible financial consequences of a condign sentence. while the situations in which judicial mercy will be extended are not closed, it is an exceptional jurisdiction.  the threshold to warrant the exercise of judicial mercy is an exceedingly high one. the loss of possible emoluments falls far short of warranting the exercise of judicial mercy in this case: at [62]-[64].11 finally, there may be statutes that require a sentencing court to have regard to certain consequences when determining the appropriate sentence. one example that is relevant for present purposes is s 108(2) of the singapore armed forces act (cap 295, 2000 rev ed) (“saf act”). any military punishment may be taken into consideration as a mitigating circumstance. this accords with the terms of s 108(2) of the saf act, which provides that a civil court shall have regard to such military punishment. however, this should not fetter the civil court’s discretion. the pertinent consideration remains whether the sentence imposed is fair and just, having regard to all relevant circumstances. in this case, no military punishment has as yet been imposed on raveendran. the only argument available to him is that it is likely that he will lose considerable amounts in emoluments. this, however, does not in and of itself mean that the court should avoid imposing a custodial sentence if that is appropriate: at [65]-[68]. for the above reasons, the court should not have regard to the possible consequences of the sentence on raveendran’s entitlement to his retirement benefits and emoluments: at [69]. 12 however, the learned dj erred in not considering some of the mitigating factors in the present case, specifically those evidencing raveendran’s remorse. comparing the present facts with precedent cases, an adjustment of the starting sentence in this case to five days’ imprisonment was warranted and the appeal was allowed to that extent: at [70]-[72]. conclusion13 the court therefore partially allowed the appeal and raveendran’s sentence was reduced from a week to five days’ imprisonment: [73].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.