supreme court of singapore11 november 2021case summaryroshdi bin abdullah altway v public prosecutor [2021] sgca 103criminal appeal no 29 of 2020 and criminal motion no 18 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: the court of appeal dismisses the appeal against conviction and sentence in relation to a capital drug trafficking charge. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  there is no general principle that a person (the “bailee”) who receives drugs, intending to return them to the person who initially entrusted the drugs to him (the “bailor”), will never be liable for trafficking or possession for the purpose of trafficking. in deciding whether the act or intended act of returning the drugs to the “bailor” constitutes “trafficking” as defined in the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed), the test is whether the “bailee” in question knew that the “bailment” was part of the process of supply or distribution of drugs or intended it to be.•  in respect of the prosecution’s additional disclosure obligations laid down in muhammad nabill bin mohd fuad v public prosecutor [2020] 1 slr 984 (“nabill”), the court of appeal affirms the definition of a “material witness” in nabill, sets out the appropriate process for the identification of such witnesses and clarifies other aspects of these obligations.background1 the appellant, roshdi bin abdullah altway (“roshdi”), claimed trial to a capital charge (the “charge”) of having in his possession for the purpose of trafficking 267 packets and 250 straws containing not less than 78.77g of diamorphine (the “drugs”), an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (the “mda”).2 at the trial below, roshdi admitted to having both possession of the drugs and knowledge of their nature. he denied, however, that he had the drugs in his possession for the purpose of trafficking. roshdi’s defence was that he was just safekeeping the drugs for a person known as “aru”, to whom he all along intended to return the drugs (the “safekeeping defence”). police investigations later ascertained “aru” to be one chandran prasanna anu (“chandran”).3 the high court judge (the “judge”) rejected roshdi’s safekeeping defence, finding that (a) the prosecution had proved the element of possession for the purpose of trafficking beyond a reasonable doubt; and (b) alternatively, that roshdi had failed to rebut the presumption of trafficking in s 17(c) of the mda. the judge thus convicted roshdi of the charge. as roshdi was not a courier and he had not been issued a certificate of substantive assistance, the judge imposed the mandatory death penalty on roshdi under s 33(1) read with the second schedule to the mda.parties’ cases in ca/cca 29/2020 and ca/cm 18/2021 4 ca/cca 29/2020 is roshdi’s appeal against his conviction and sentence. against his conviction, roshdi argued as follows:(a) the judge had erred in admitting eight statements given in the course of investigations because these were not given voluntarily (the “contested statements”). roshdi had been induced to give these statements by representations made by the recording officers (the “alleged representations”).(b) the judge had erred in rejecting roshdi’s safekeeping defence. in view of the decision in ramesh a/l perumal v public prosecutor and another appeal [2019] 1 slr 1003 (“ramesh”), given that roshdi was only safekeeping the drugs for chandran, to whom he all along intended to return the drugs, he could not be said to have been in possession of the drugs for the purpose of trafficking.(c) there was late disclosure by the prosecution of four police statements given by chandran. this was in breach of the prosecution’s additional disclosure obligations laid down in muhammad nabill bin mohd fuad v public prosecutor [2020] 1 slr 984 (“nabill”).(d) since the prosecution had failed to call chandran as a witness, it had “failed to discharge its burden of proof to rebut [roshdi’s] safekeeping defence”.5 roshdi did not raise any distinct grounds in support of his appeal against his sentence.6 the prosecution argued, however, that the contested statements were correctly admitted, and that the element of possession for the purpose of trafficking was made out. it further sought to revisit the ambit of its additional disclosure obligations laid down in nabill. there, the court of appeal (the “court”) held that the prosecution was required to disclose to the defence police statements made by a “material witness”, which was defined in that context as a person “who can be expected to confirm, or conversely, contradict an accused person’s defence in material respects” (the “current definition”). the prosecution made the following submissions in this regard:(a) the current definition of a “material witness” should be narrowed to cover only a witness whom the accused person identifies as the “true culprit” responsible for the offence instead of him (the “proposed redefinition”).(b) the defence, not the prosecution, should bear the duty of identifying “material witnesses”. the defence should generally identify such witnesses at the pre-trial stage.(c) any dispute as to the “materiality” of a witness should be resolved by the court.(d) notwithstanding the observations in nabill at [77], where a witness is identified as “material”, the prosecution and law enforcement agencies have no legal obligation to conduct further investigations or to record further statements from such a witness.(e) in the event of a breach of the prosecution’s additional disclosure obligations, the court may draw an adverse inference against the prosecution if its non-compliance had no reasonable basis.7 the prosecution also contended that the court’s reasoning in nabill (at [70]-[71]) had been misinterpreted to mean that in respect of a material fact in issue, the evidential burden would shift from the defence to the prosecution as long as the accused person raises a defence that is “not inherently incredible” (the “purported interpretation”). the prosecution invited the court to clarify that this interpretation of nabill was wrong. the prosecution further denied that its disclosure of chandran’s statements to the defence was late or in breach of its additional disclosure obligations.8 although neither party initially raised the point, the court was also concerned with exploring the legal position where there was an alleged “bailment” of drugs, in which a person (the “bailee”) receives drugs, intending to return them to the person who initially entrusted the drugs to him (the “bailor”). roshdi had relied on ramesh (at [110]) to argue that as a mere “bailee” or safekeeper of the drugs, he was not in possession of the drugs for the purpose of trafficking. the court thus directed parties to address it on the following question:… [w]hether and if so how it is relevant, when assessing an alleged ‘bailment’ of drugs, that (1) the bailee holds the drugs for reward and (2) the bailee knows that the alleged ‘bailment’ is to enable the further distribution of the drugs. in this regard should be had in particular to [86], [87], [110]–[116] of the judgment in [ramesh] as well as the fact that the accused person in question there was convicted of simple possession and that the remarks at [118] were made in the context of sentencing.the decision of the court of appealthe admissibility of the contested statements9 the contested statements were found to be admissible (at [70]). the judge did not err in finding that the alleged representations had never been made to roshdi (at [49] to [67]). in any case, even if the alleged representations had been made, they did not objectively constitute a threat, inducement or promise (at [68]). subjectively, the said representations also did not operate on roshdi’s mind when he gave the contested statements (at [69]), and there was no basis for the court to exercise its residual exclusionary discretion to exclude the said statements (at [70]).whether roshdi was correctly convicted of the chargea. the law governing the burden of proof and evidential burden10 the purported interpretation of nabill (at [70]-[71]) was plainly incorrect, both as a reading of the decision and as a proposition of law. nabill did not change the established law governing the operation of the legal and evidential burdens in criminal cases (at [76] to [82]).11 in the present case, the only disputed element was whether roshdi had the drugs in his possession for the purpose of trafficking. the legal burden was on roshdi to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17(c) of the mda, and he also bore the evidential burden of adducing sufficient evidence to raise an issue for the consideration of the trier of fact (at [87]).b. whether the element of possession for the purpose of trafficking was made out12 on the facts, the prosecution had established the element of possession for the purpose of trafficking beyond a reasonable doubt. in any case, roshdi had failed to rebut the presumption of trafficking in s 17(c) of the mda (at [185]).13 the judge was correct to disbelieve roshdi’s safekeeping defence. roshdi’s police statements contained detailed explanations and admissions indicating that he had the drugs in his possession for the purpose of trafficking (at [90] to [91]). his safekeeping defence was only raised for the first time at trial, and his explanations for the discrepancies with his statements were incoherent (at [92] to [94]). there was also no merit in roshdi’s contention that the judge had failed to properly scrutinise the evidence relating to chandran’s involvement as chandran’s police statements did not support roshdi’s safekeeping defence (at [95] to [98]).14 in any case, even assuming that roshdi had a safekeeping arrangement with chandran, the element of possession for the purpose of trafficking would nevertheless be made out (at [126]).15 ramesh (at [110]) did not establish a general proposition that a “bailee” who receives drugs intending to return them to the “bailor” will never be liable for trafficking (or possession for the purpose of trafficking) (at [115]). in deciding whether the act or intended act of returning drugs to the “bailor” constitutes “trafficking” as defined in the mda, the test is whether the “bailee” in question knew that the “bailment” was part of the process of supply or distribution of drugs or intended it to be (at [115] to [120] and [184]).16 based on roshdi’s own case at trial, roshdi was undoubtedly aware that by safekeeping the drugs for chandran, he was facilitating the process of their intended sale and distribution. his intended act of returning the drugs to chandran would therefore constitute “trafficking” under the mda, and he would nonetheless have been in possession of the drugs for the purpose of trafficking (at [123] to [124]).17 that being the case, there was no question of the evidential burden ever having shifted to the prosecution to rebut roshdi’s safekeeping defence since a hopeless defence raises nothing to rebut. it was thus unnecessary for the prosecution to call chandran as a witness to rebut roshdi’s safekeeping defence (at [126] to [128]).18 since roshdi’s safekeeping defence was hopeless, the issues relating to the prosecution’s additional disclosure obligations did not in fact arise (at [129]). nevertheless, the court set out the following views:(a) the proposed redefinition of a “material witness” was not accepted (at [137] to [143]). contrary to the prosecution’s submission, the two key rationales for imposing the additional disclosure obligations did not only apply to witnesses who might be the “true culprit”. rather, they were generally engaged whenever there was a witness who could be expected to materially confirm or contradict the accused person’s defence.(b) the prosecution’s suggestion that the defence should bear the duty of identifying “material witnesses” was not accepted (at [146] to [148]). this in effect would transform what was meant to be a disclosure obligation of the prosecution into a duty upon the defence to present its case prior to trial. this was out of touch with the purposes that the additional disclosure obligations were meant to achieve. it was also inaccurate for the prosecution to suggest that at all stages of a criminal proceeding, the identification of a “material witness” is dependent on the defence that the accused person ultimately runs at trial (at [152] to [155]). rather, at each stage of a criminal proceeding, the “materiality” of a witness is assessed only by reference to such defences as the accused person may have disclosed at that point in time. the court set out the appropriate general process for identifying “material witnesses” (at [156] to [160]).(c) in the event that a dispute arises as to the “materiality” of a witness, either party can apply to the court for a ruling (at [146] and [161]).(d) there was no legal duty on the prosecution or law enforcement agencies to conduct further investigations or record statements whenever a “material witness” is identified (at [166] to [167]). nabill at [77] did not impose any such duty. the position was simply that if the prosecution chooses not to pursue any further investigations, it takes the risk that it will be found to have failed to discharge its evidential burden in respect of facts that have properly come into issue.(e) the consequences of any breach of the prosecution’s additional disclosure obligations would necessarily depend on all the facts at hand: (at [168] to [169]).19 on the facts, the prosecution’s disclosure of chandran’s statements was not late or in breach of its additional disclosure obligations (at [180]).conclusion20 for these reasons, roshdi’s appeal against conviction was dismissed. roshdi’s appeal against his sentence was also dismissed as there was no basis to interfere with the death sentence imposed by the judge (at [185] to [186]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.