supreme court of singapore26 october 2021case summarycomposers and authors society of singapore ltd v fox networks group singapore pte ltd [2021] sghc 241 suit no 927 of 2020 (summonses nos 5628 and 5684 of 2020)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by justice dedar singh gill):outcome: hc dismisses claim for primary infringement of copyright under o 14 r 12 of the rules of court and strikes out claim for authorising primary infringement under o 18 r 19(1)(b).pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the exclusive right to authorise the doing of an act in relation to a copyright work (“right of authorisation”) was separate and distinct from the exclusive right to do the act itself (“underlying right”) (at [27]). as a starting point, all underlying rights were accompanied by a corresponding right of authorisation. however, the right of authorisation may be severed from the “parent” underlying right such as by way of an assignment or exclusive licence (at [30]). being the owner or exclusive licensee of the right of authorisation did not imply the same over the underlying right (at [38]).•  the uplinking of signals to a satellite in the context of point-to-point (“ptp”) transmissions was not a “broadcast” under s 7(1) of the copyright act (cap 63, 2006 rev ed) and therefore did not constitute a communication to the public under s 26(1)(a)(iv) of the copyright act (at [54]). ptp transmissions were transmitted to another broadcaster who included the signals in its own transmissions (at [42(b)]). however, a broadcast must objectively involve direct transmission to the general public or a part thereof (at [54]). •  persons outside of singapore did not form part of the “public” under s 26(1)(a) of the copyright act (at [107]).the material facts1 the plaintiff pleaded that it was a collecting society which administered the rights of public performance, broadcast, diffusion and reproduction in “music and musical associated literary works” on behalf of its members. under reciprocal agreements with affiliated societies in other countries, the plaintiff claimed to represent owners of musical works in both international and local repertoires.2 the defendant was a regional broadcasting company based and operating in singapore. it programmed, operated and provided to its authorised, independent content distributors (“distributors”) subscription pay television channels in an encrypted format (“the encrypted channels”) accessible only by the distributors.  there were only two distributors located in singapore – singtel and starhub. only one encrypted channel was transmitted by the defendant via satellite to the distributors in singapore – fox sports 3. the remaining distributors were located outside of singapore. the distributors owned, operated, and managed their own television platforms. members of the public in the country the distributor operated in were able to subscribe to these television platforms.3 the plaintiff claimed that by uplinking programmes (“the disputed programmes”) which contained certain musical works (“the disputed musical works”) to a satellite, the defendant had: (a) committed primary infringement by communicating the disputed musical works to the public and performing the works in public; and (b) authorised infringement by third parties (ie, the defendant had authorised the distributors to communicate the disputed musical works to the public). the latter claim was referred to as a claim for “authorisation liability”. according to the plaintiff, the disputed musical works belonged to owners represented by the plaintiff. 4 the defendant applied to strike out the claim on several grounds in summons no 5628 of 2020 (“sum 5628”). one such ground was that the plaintiff lacked standing to sue for primary infringement because it was not the exclusive licensee of the underlying rights in respect of the disputed musical works (“the standing issue”). in response, the plaintiff argued that by virtue of reciprocal agreements (“the disputed reciprocal agreements”) with two affiliated foreign collecting societies, it was the exclusive licensee of the underlying rights in respect of the disputed musical works in singapore. 5 subsequently, the plaintiff applied to determine two question of law under o 14 r 12 of the rules of court (2014 rev ed) (“roc”) in summons no 5684 of 2020. the first question presented for summary determination was the standing issue. the second question was whether the defendant’s uplinking of encrypted channels that contained or featured the disputed musical works by way of satellite transmission from singapore constituted communication of the works to the public under s 26(1)(a) of the copyright act (“the communication issue”). 6 the following was the chain of events by which the encrypted channels (of which the disputed programmes were a part) were received by the distributors’ subscribers:   a. first, the encrypted channels were uplinked to a satellite by the defendant from singapore;b. second, the signals were then downlinked (ie, returned to earth) to the distributors in each country, including singapore. each distributor was provided with a decoder device to decrypt the defendant’s signals at the downlinking site. c. the distributors then transmitted the encrypted channels, received from the defendant, to their own subscribers who were located in the same country the distributor was based in. each distributor was only authorised to distribute the channel(s) it received to its subscribers within the territory it was based in.  7 a “communication” under the copyright act may take the form of a broadcast or making the work available for access by any person at his convenience (s 7(1) of the copyright act). the particular issues that arose for determination under the second question were: a. what was the meaning of “broadcast” in s 7(1) of the copyright act?b. what was the meaning of “the making available of a work” in s 7(1) of the copyright act?c. what was the meaning of the “public” in s 26(1)(a) of the copyright act?the court’s decision 8 the high court dismissed the plaintiff’s claim for primary infringement under o 14 r 12 of the roc and struck out the claim for authorisation liability under o 18 r 19(1)(b) of the roc (at [109] and [115].).the claims for primary infringementthe standing issue9 the court found that the plaintiff was not the exclusive licensee of the right to communicate the disputed musical works to the public or to perform these works in public. thus, it lacked standing to bring the claims for primary infringement (at [40]).10 under the disputed reciprocal agreements, the plaintiff was only the exclusive licensee of the rights of authorisation in respect of the disputed musical works (at [36]).11 as s 9(2) of the copyright act referred separately to “the exclusive right to do an act in relation to a work” and “the exclusive right to authorise a person to do that act”, this signalled that the two rights were distinct (at [29]). although all underlying rights were accompanied by a corresponding right of authorisation, the two may be severed such as by way of an assignment or exclusive licence (at [30]). 12 further, being the owner or exclusive licensee of the right of authorisation did not necessarily imply the same over the underlying right. section 25(1) of the copyright act made clear that a partial assignment of exclusive rights only transferred ownership of the exclusive rights which were the subject of the assignment. in keeping with the spirit of s 25(1) of the copyright act, rights obtained under an exclusive license were confined to the exclusive rights which were the subject-matter of the exclusive licence (at [38]).the communication issue13 the court found that the defendant’s satellite uplinking fell within the meaning of a ptp transmission. in ptp transmissions, one broadcaster transmitted signals to a satellite, which were then transmitted to another broadcaster who included the signals in its own transmissions. indeed, in this case, the encrypted channels uplinked by the defendant were only downlinked to the distributors. the distributors were then responsible for transmitting the defendant’s channel(s) to their own subscribers (at [42]–[43]). 14 the court concluded that the disputed musical works had not been communicated to the public under s 26(1)(a)(iv) of the copyright act (at [108]). there were three main planks to its reasoning.15 first, the court held that uplinking signals to a satellite in the context of ptp transmissions did not constitute a broadcast. this was because a broadcast must objectively involve direct transmission to the general public or a part thereof (at [54]). 16 the key reason relied on by the court in arriving at this interpretation of “broadcast” was the following contextual clue. section 16(5)(b) of the copyright act stipulated the means for identifying who made a television or sound broadcast by “the technique known as direct broadcasting by satellite”, but not ptp transmissions. this suggested that parliament did not consider ptp transmissions to be broadcasts under the copyright act. further, the court was of the view that singapore had adopted s 16(5) from the copyright act 1956 (c 74) (uk) (“copyright act 1956 (uk)”), as amended by the cable and broadcasting act 1984 (c 46) (uk) (“cable and broadcasting act 1984 (uk)”). what was significant was that the uk parliament had deliberately opted not to expand the definition of “broadcasting” in the copyright act 1956 (uk) to include ptp transmissions. therefore, having incorporated s 14(10) of the copyright act 1956 (uk), as amended by the cable and broadcasting act 1984 (uk), into singapore’s statute books, the uk’s intention to exclude ptp transmissions from the ambit of “broadcasting” was likely also imported (at [58], [62] and [64]).17 based on the foregoing, because the pleaded claim only accused the defendant of uplinking ptp transmissions, the disputed musical works were not being broadcast by the defendant (at [76]).18 second, the court found that the defendant had not made the disputed musical works available for access by any person from a place and at a time chosen by that person within the meaning of s 7(1) of the copyright act. this was because only the distributors were able to decode the defendant’s encrypted transmissions (at [82]). 19 third, even if the works had been communicated, they were not communicated to the “public” within the meaning of s 26(1)(a)(iv) of the copyright act (at [99]). 20 the question of whether a communication had been made to the public was a multi-factorial inquiry (at [86]). one factor was that the “public” ordinarily connoted “all members of the community or a section of the public. a substantial number of persons could sometimes be the “public” (at [85]). another factor was that if recipients of the communication were persons from whom the copyright owner was entitled to expect payment from, this weighed in favour of the communication having been made to the public (at [86]).21 the defendant in this case performed its uplinking activities in a commercial setting. however, the court concluded that the commercial nature of the uplinked transmissions was outweighed by the fact that only two recipients in singapore were able to decrypt them (ie, singtel and starhub) (at [95] and [98]). this number was too small to amount to a communication to the public (at [87]).22 further, distributors outside of singapore who received the defendant’s transmissions were irrelevant for the purpose of determining if a communication was made to the public. in the absence of express language in s 26(1)(a), the court did not deem fit to give the word “public” an extraterritorial gloss (at [103] and [107]).conclusion23 both questions in the o 14 r 12 roc application were resolved against the plaintiff. therefore, the plaintiff’s claims for primary infringement were dismissed (at [109]).the claim for authorisation liability24 since the questions submitted for summary determination under o 14 r 12 of the roc did not relate to authorisation liability, the court examined this portion of the claim under o 18 r 19 of the roc (at [111]).25 the court struck out the claim for authorisation liability under o 18 r 19(1)(b) for being legally unsustainable. to establish authorisation of an infringing act, there first must be proof that an infringing act had taken place within singapore (at [113]).26 however, the plaintiff did not even plead that the distributors, particularly singtel and starhub, committed primary infringement. therefore, even if the plaintiff succeeded in proving all the pleaded facts, the defendant could not be liable for authorising an act of infringement when the latter did not exist in the pleadings (at [114]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.