supreme court of singapore19 october 2021case summarytamar perry and anor v jacques henri georges esculier and anor and another matter [2021] sgca(i) 5civil appeal no 12 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judith prakash jca):outcome: court of appeal dismisses the appeal against the decision of the judge below that certain claims should not be permitted within the ambit of the interpleader proceedings ordered. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  an action commenced as part of interpleader proceedings is not a freestanding action. although it is in form an action between the rival claimants to particular property, it is in substance a proprietary dispute, the resolution of which is necessary to help the party applying for interpleader relief to determine who the liability (in the form of the property) is owed to: at [32].•  what was central to this appeal was determining whether the claims which the appellants sought to rely on were: (a) proprietary claims which related to the ownership or title to the assets in question and would be capable of establishing that the appellants had title to those assets, or (b) claims which did not provide the appellants an ownership claim to the assets themselves but simply gave the appellants the right to obtain a judgment against the respondents for an identical amount of money, and which were thus personal claims: at [34].•  a claim under s 60 of the hong kong conveyancing and property ordinance, like other similar provisions which originated from ss 2 and 6 of the statute of 13 eliz 1571 (c 5) (uk), could not be said to be a proprietary claim for the purposes of the court’s interpleader jurisdiction. accordingly, the appellants had no basis to seek its addition to the interpleader action: at [36] and [38].background to the appeal1 the dispute centred on competing claims by the parties to a sum of approximately us$10.24m (the “monies”) in an account with dbs bank in singapore held in the name of the second respondent (the “dbs account”): a. the appellants’ claim to the monies arose out of an alleged ponzi scheme, which was said to have been operated by one bismark badilla. the appellants claim to have transferred money to companies in the lexinta group pursuant to what are now said to have been fraudulent asset management agreements. b. by contrast, the respondents contended that badilla and the lexinta group had held themselves out as providers of investment and asset management services, and that they had availed themselves of these services pursuant to various (and separate) asset management agreements entered into with lexinta group entities. the monies are said to have been the respondents’ returns on their investments with the lexinta group.2 sometime in early 2019, the appellants and respondents both gave instructions to dbs bank concerning the monies held in the dbs account. faced with competing claims to the monies, dbs commenced an interpleader action (“os 1016”) on 8 august 2019 with, inter alia, the second respondent and first appellant named as defendants. 3 following the hearing of os 1016, the court made a number of orders, as set out in hc/orc 1066/2020 (“orc 1066”). orc 1066 provided for the monies to continue to be held in the dbs account (so as to continue generating interest), and also set out timelines for a trial of the contest over title to the monies between the first appellant and second respondent.4 on 19 march 2020, the appellants commenced a suit in the high court in line with orc 1066, with themselves as the plaintiffs and the first and second respondents as the defendants. in their amended statement of claim, the appellants based their claims to the monies on two causes of action:a. first, the appellants asserted that the respondents’ investments with the lexinta group were not genuine, and that the respondents’ initial investments would have been dissipated long before. accordingly, any returns on the investment were fake and “could only have come from monies sent [to the lexinta group] by the [appellants]”. the appellants thus asserted that the monies had been paid by the lexinta group in breach of fiduciary duties owed to the appellants as beneficial owners thereof or in breach of trust and that they therefore had continuing equitable property rights in the monies.b. second, the appellants made a claim in unjust enrichment against the respondents.5 on 19 june 2020, the respondents’ counsel wrote to the appellants indicating that the respondents intended to amend their defence and counterclaim to specifically plead that the law applicable to the dispute was swiss law and that, under swiss law, which “does not know the institution of the common law trust or equitable proprietary rights over bank account balances”, the appellants’ claims were arid. in response, the appellants proposed a number of further amendments to the writ and statement of claim, as follows:a. the joinder of lexinta group ltd as an additional defendant;b. the addition of claims under s 73b of the conveyancing and law of property act (cap 61, 1994 rev ed) (the “clpa  claim” and the “clp act” respectively) or upon the equivalent provision in hong kong, being s 60 of the conveyancing and property ordinance (the “cpo claim” and the “cpo” respectively); andc. the inclusion of an averment that the governing law of the dispute was hong kong law (and not swiss law) because it was “the law most closely connected” to the dispute.these amendments were sought on the basis that suit 4 was a “freestanding” action independent of the court’s interpleader jurisdiction and which “proceed[ed] under the general procedural rules applicable to all such claims, including as to amendment and joinder of parties”.6 on 28 august 2020, the respondents applied to strike out the appellants’ claim in unjust enrichment.7 on 25 september 2020, the judge allowed the respondents’ striking out application and struck out the appellants’ claim in unjust enrichment. in relation to the amendments sought by the appellants, the judge declined to permit the joinder of lexinta group ltd or the addition of the cpo and clpa claims. however, the judge permitted the amendment asserting that the governing law of the dispute was hong kong law. the appellants sought and received leave to appeal in relation to the cpo and clpa claims, as well as the joinder of lexinta group ltd. the court of appeal’s decision8 the court of appeal dismissed ca 12 of 2021. 9 an action commenced as part of interpleader proceedings is not a freestanding action. although it is in form an action between the rival claimants to particular property, it is in substance a proprietary dispute, the resolution of which is necessary to help the party applying for interpleader relief to determine who the liability (in the form of the property) is owed to. this was rightly conceded by the appellants on appeal: at [28] and [32]. 10 what was central to this appeal was determining whether the claims which the appellants sought to rely on were: (a) proprietary claims which related to the ownership or title to the assets in question and would be capable of establishing that the appellants had title to those assets, or (b) claims which did not provide the appellants an ownership claim to the assets themselves but simply gave the appellants the right to obtain a judgment against the respondents for an identical amount of money, and which were thus personal claims: at [34].11 section 60 of the cpo, which formed the basis for the cpo claim, was derived from s 172 of the english law of property act 1925 (c 20) (uk) (the “english lpa”). section 172 of the english lpa was itself re-enacted from para 31 to part ii of schedule 3 to the law of property (amendment) act 1924 (uk), which was in turn itself a reformulation of the provisions in ss 2 and 6 of the statute of 13 eliz 1571 (c 5) (uk) (the “1571 statute”). the 1571 statute was intended to protect creditors against action taken by debtors to dissipate their assets. section 73b of the clp act, which is also derived from the 1571 statute, is identical in all material respects with s 60 of the cpo: at [36] and [37]. 12 the cpo claim, and by extension the clpa claim, did not fall within the court’s interpleader jurisdiction. even taking the appellants’ case at its very highest, and assuming for the sake of argument that the cpo and clpa claims would operate as against the monies, neither claim would give the appellants title to the same. while the cpo and clpa claims would have to be brought against the respondents (and, presumably, lexinta group ltd as well), a successful claim would only render the transfer of the monies to the respondents voidable on the basis that they were sent out with intent to defraud lexinta group ltd’s creditors generally. the monies would then have to be returned to lexinta group ltd’s creditors or liquidators for general distribution. it could not be said that the cpo and clpa claims would give rise to title in the monies for the appellants themselves: at [38].13 the precise orders made in os 1016 fortified the conclusion above. orc 1066 specifically stipulated at [2] that the interpleader proceedings would entail the first appellant and second respondent “hav[ing] their respective claims to the [monies] determined” (emphasis added). it was also clear that the first appellant was to “state her claim to the monies” (emphasis added). it was thus evident that even setting aside the precise legal ambit of interpleader proceedings generally, the specific interpleader proceedings authorised by os 1016 did not permit claims which did not involve the parties asserting claims to the monies themselves: at [40].14 the appellants sought to rely on three cases to support their position: regal castings ltd v lightbody [2008] nzsc 87 (“regal castings”), commissioner of taxation v oswal (no 6) [2016] fca 762 (“oswal”), and skandinaviska enskilda banken ab (publ) v conway and another [2020] ac 1111 (“seb v conway”). seb v conway was readily distinguishable from the instant facts, and did not assist the appellants. regal castings and oswal, which at least involved similar statutory provisions which were derived from the 1571 statute, were at odds with the appellants’ position. rather, they were authority for the respondents’ approach to determining the court’s interpleader jurisdiction: at [42]–[49].15 the appellants’ alternative argument was that even if the cpo and clpa claims were not proprietary claims for the purposes of the court’s interpleader jurisdiction, they were nonetheless proprietary claims because they would allow the appellants to assert proprietary rights to the monies contingent upon the setting aside of the transfers by lexinta group ltd to the second respondent. the sole case the appellants relied on for this proposition was global currency exchange network ltd v osage 1 ltd [2019] 1 wlr 5865 (“osage”). however, osage was readily distinguishable, and even if the reasoning contained in osage were applied to the present case, it did not provide support for the proposition the appellants attempted to rely on it for. the appellants’ alternative argument, which relied solely on osage as support, was thus wholly without basis: at [50]–[52].16 the court’s interpleader jurisdiction is one which has to be carefully controlled. considerations such as the extent of parties’ submission to jurisdiction, and concern as to parties attempting to circumvent the rules on service out of jurisdiction by way of the court’s interpleader jurisdiction, militate in favour of the interpleader jurisdiction being applied only within its prescribed bounds. claims such as the cpo and clpa claims, being claims which did not assert title on behalf of the appellants to the monies, fell outside those bounds. accordingly, the appellants’ appeal in relation to the cpo claim failed, and the appellants’ applications for consequential relief fell away: at [53] and [55].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.