supreme court of singapore23 october 2023case summarybcbc singapore pte ltd and another v pt bayan resources tbk and another [2023] sgca(i) 8civil appeal from the singapore international commercial court no 4 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------judgment of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: the court of appeal (the “court”) allowed the appeal against the decision of the singapore international commercial court (the “sicc”) on costs. it increased the discount applied to the post-transfer costs that were awarded to the respondents, and decided that the second appellant was not to be jointly and severally liable with the first appellant for the respondents’ costs.pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  where a party introduces a late amendment that substantially alters the case the opposing party has to meet, and that amendment has a decisive impact on the outcome of the case, this may attract costs consequences, such as a discount on the quantum of costs that such a party may be entitled to: at [45]–[47].•  the sicc’s discretion as to costs under o 110 r 46(1) of the rules of court 2014 (2020 rev ed) (“roc 2014”) is wide enough for it to award issue-based costs in the appropriate case. nevertheless, the practical application of the issue-based approach is potentially challenging, and a court will have to give serious consideration to these challenges before making any issue-based costs order: at [64]–[73].introduction1 this was an appeal against the decision of the sicc in bcbc singapore pte ltd and another v pt bayan resources tbk and another [2022] sghc(i) 17, on the costs of sic/s 1/2015 (“s 1”).background and the decision below2 the sicc’s decision on costs marked the end of a decade-long suit. the matter was heard over three tranches. the appellants, bcbc singapore pte ltd (“bcbcs”) and binderless coal briquetting company pty limited (“bcbc”), had succeeded on most of the issues concerning liability in s 1, which formed the focus of the first and second tranches. however, the respondents, pt bayan resources tbk (“br”) and bayan international pte ltd (“bi”), ultimately succeeded on issues relating to damages and quantum in the third tranche that were determinative of the plaintiffs’ claim. as the court held in bcbc singapore ltd and another v pt bayan resources tbk and another [2023] sgca(i) 1, this was chiefly because br would have wound up the parties’ joint venture company, pt kaltim supacoal, as an unpaid creditor well before sufficient revenue would have been generated for bcbcs to realise any profits or even recover the wasted expenditure it incurred in connection with the project (the “winding up defence”). in the third tranche appeal, the appellants were ultimately awarded $1,000 by way of nominal damages. as to costs and disbursements, the sicc awarded a total of $4,694,633.20 to the defendants. this appeal was only concerned with a part of this, specifically the amount of $2,671,787 awarded in costs subsequent to the transfer of the suit to the sicc.3 the sicc noted that the costs regime in the sicc under o 110 r 46 of the roc 2014 was different from the costs regime under o 59 of the roc 2014, which applied to proceedings in the high court. where costs in the sicc were concerned, the principal underlying consideration was a commercial one of ensuring that a successful litigant was not unfairly put out of pocket for sensibly prosecuting its claim or mounting its defence.4 given the shape of the outcome of this litigation, a key question was whether a “successful party” could be identified. this was a necessary step to applying the starting point in o 110 r 46(1) – that the “successful party” is entitled to reasonable costs.5 in identifying the successful party, the sicc considered that the outcome of the litigation had to be assessed in its entirety, in a realistic and commercially sensible manner, to determine which party could be said, in substance and reality, to have won the litigation. on this basis, the sicc ruled that the respondents were, in overall terms, the successful party in s 1. although they had failed on significant aspects of their defence as well as in their counterclaim against the appellants, the identification of the successful party did not, in the sicc’s view, turn on the outcome of the individual tranches or the discrete issues that were dealt with in those tranches. ultimately, the respondents were the successful party because the appellants failed in their pursuit of substantial damages against the respondents, and, indeed, obtained practically nothing from the litigation.6 the sicc then considered whether it should exercise its discretion under o 110 r 46(1) to depart from the starting point that a successful party was entitled to “reasonable costs” as against an unsuccessful party. the appellants advanced two arguments in this regard. first, they contended that an issue-based approach to costs should be adopted, and it was said that the net result would be for no costs to be awarded to either party. this approach entails the unsuccessful party for each issue being liable to pay costs to the successful party on that issue. second, in the alternative, the appellants contended that any costs order in favour of the respondents should be subject to a substantial reduction in quantum so as to better reflect the respective successes and failures of the parties in the course of the litigation.7 in respect of the appellants’ first argument, that an issue-based approach be taken, the sicc found that one of the main hurdles to applying such an approach was the fact that there was a “clear overall winner”. under o 59 of the roc 2014, a successful party was generally entitled to costs even though that party had not won on every issue. this equally applied to proceedings in the sicc. adopting the issue-based approach would mean that the incidence of costs could depend on factors other than the overall outcome of the litigation, with the result that the successful party could end up paying the unsuccessful party more than what it receives in costs. this could, in a case where there was an overall winner, run counter to the reasonable expectations of the litigants.8 the sicc also ruled that the argument that the respondents had acted unreasonably and protracted the hearing of s 1 unnecessarily did not justify applying an issue-based approach – rather, it was a factor that the court could consider in assessing what amounted to “reasonable costs”.9 the sicc acknowledged that the plaintiffs succeeded on practically all issues of liability while the defendants only prevailed at the end largely due to the court’s decision on “narrow points of causation and quantum”. rather than award issue-based costs, the sicc reduced the quantum of the costs award to reflect this. the sicc’s discretion under o 110 r 46(1) was sufficiently broad so as to allow it to look beyond the overall outcome of the litigation and make costs orders that would properly take into account the realities and circumstances of the case.10 the sicc reduced the post-transfer costs awarded, first by 10%, and then by a further 40%. using the respondents’ claimed costs for the post-transfer period as a starting point, the sicc applied a 10% discount for the respondents’ lack of particularisation. the respondents bore the burden of proving that their claimed costs were “reasonable costs”, but failed to adduce sufficient evidence to this effect, for instance by including a breakdown in the form of a costs schedule. a further 40% discount was then applied. this accounted for the relative success of the parties on issues of legal significance in s 1, including the respondents’ failure to establish their counterclaim. the sicc found that the appellants, despite being unsuccessful in their litigation, had succeeded on issues that were legally significant, and that accounted for the expenditure of substantial resources. the resulting quantum of post-transfer costs awarded to the respondents was $2,671,787.the appellants’ arguments against the sicc’s award of costs 11 the appeal centred on four main arguments raised by the appellants.12 first, they submitted that they ought to be awarded the costs of s 1 up to 21 january 2020, which is the date when the respondents first raised the narrow point of causation on which they succeeded (namely, the winding up defence), and that the respondents ought to be awarded costs only for the period thereafter. this is because, while the respondents ultimately prevailed on the causation point, that was something that could have been raised from the outset of s 1 (“argument 1”).13 second, and in the alternative, the appellants argued that an issue-based approach to costs should have been adopted. had this been done, the parties would each face adverse costs orders in respect of the issues on which they had been unsuccessful. given that the appellants had succeeded on a substantial number of issues, some net costs ought to have been awarded in the appellants’ favour; at the very least, no order as to costs should have been made leaving each party to bear its own costs (“argument 2”).14 third, and in the further alternative, the sicc ought to have applied a greater reduction to the costs claimed by the respondents, specifically a reduction of 80%. the appellants argue that the 40% discount applied by the sicc was inadequate when one considers, among other matters, the number of issues on which the appellants had prevailed, the time spent on those issues as well as the legal significance of those issues (“argument 3”).15 fourth, the appellants also argue that the costs order made in respect of s 1 should only be made against bcbcs, and not bcbc. at best, bcbc ought to be liable only for costs associated with its withdrawn claim, and thus, only up to the date on which it withdrew its claim against bi, but not thereafter (“argument 4”).the court’s decisionarguments 1 to 3 16 while argument 1 was not raised before the sicc, the court granted the appellants permission to raise this new point on appeal. it was a question of principle that did not entail any further evidence being led or facts being found. in other words, there was sufficient material before the court for it to decide the point. furthermore, permitting the point to be taken would not cause prejudice to the respondents, who mounted full arguments in response in the appeal. the court, however, rejected the appellants’ broader submission that the singapore international commercial court rules 2021 no longer required a party to seek permission to raise new points on appeal: at [36].17 on the merits of argument 1, the court accepted the appellants’ submission that the winding up defence could and should have been raised earlier. this late amendment substantially altered the case the appellants had to meet and had a decisive impact on the outcome of the case. had the winding up defence been pleaded earlier, it was not at all clear that the appellants would have run their case in the same way: at [37]–[44].18 the court, however, disagreed that this late amendment should have the consequence of the appellants being awarded their costs of s 1 up to 21 january 2020, with the respondents being awarded their costs thereafter. there were practical difficulties with applying such a time-based costs order. instead, the court ordered that the 40% discount applied by the sicc be increased to 70%. in reaching this decision, the court was mindful that the sicc’s exercise of its discretion in favour of a discounting approach had not been shown to be in error: at [31] and [45]–[46].19 the court rejected argument 2. the appellants failed to show where and how the sicc erred in not adopting the issue-based approach. in the context of an appeal, it was insufficient for the appellants to merely show that the issue-based approach could apply, or that it would be preferable to adopt such an approach. under o 110 r 46(1) of roc 2014, the sicc not only has a discretion to depart from the starting point that costs follow the event, it also the discretion to choose the approach it takes as to the type of costs order that it considers would best meet the justice of the case. contrary to the appellants’ case, the sicc did not consider itself precluded from applying the issue-based approach once it determined that there was an overall winner. instead, it considered both the issue-based approach and the discounting approach, evaluated their relative merits, and decided that the latter was the more appropriate order in s 1.: at [27]–[30].20 the court’s view that the sicc was justified in not adopting the issue-based approach was reinforced by its various shortcomings, especially in its practical application. the court identified five such concerns: (a) the difficulty of separating issues; (b) the difficulty of abstraction in defining issues; (c) the cost of granularity when assessing costs; (d) the difficulty of attributing costs incurred to individual issues; and (e) the problem of duplication in having to assess the costs of both sides. in the final analysis, the court recognised that there may well be cases where an issue-based approach would be appropriate, such as in intellectual property litigation. nevertheless, courts considering such orders ought to seriously consider the challenges that may come in the wake of making such orders, and where possible, consider means of mitigating those challenges: at [50]–[73].argument 421 the court accepted argument 4. there was good reason to depart from the general rule that co-plaintiffs should both be jointly and severally liable for costs. bcbc had pursued what was, in essence, a separate claim against bi and not a common claim with bcbcs. the bases of the appellants’ claims were different. more importantly, bcbc had withdrawn its claim at an earlier stage and ceased to participate in the suit, such that the sicc was only concerned with adjudicating bcbcs’ claim: at [74]–[94].conclusion22 the appeal was allowed. the sicc’s costs order in relation to the respondents’ post-transfer costs was set aside. bcbcs was ordered to pay br its post-transfer costs to the following extent: from the respondents’ claimed figure of $4,947,753.70, costs solely attributable to bcbc’s withdrawn claim were to be deducted. the resulting figure was subject to a 10% discount for the respondents’ lack of particularisation below, and a further 70% discount. bcbc was liable to bi for its post-transfer costs in so far as these were solely attributable to bcbc’s withdrawn claim. this was subject to the same 10% discount. parties were to agree on the quantum of such costs, failing which they were to write in to address the court within 14 days of the issuance of the judgment. the court made no order as to the costs of the appeal: at [95]–[96].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.