supreme court of singapore22 september 2021case summarythe micro tellers network ltd and others v cheng yi han and others and another suit [2021] sghc(i) 11suit nos 5 and 8 of 2020 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of simon thorley ij:outcome: the court held that the first defendant in sic/s 8/2020 (“suit 8”) was liable to the plaintiffs for the tort of deceit.background facts1 the first plaintiff in suit 8, providence asset management (“pam”) was a company whose managing partner is one mr ling hui andrew (“mr ling”). the second plaintiff in suit 8, 5 and 2 pte ltd, was also a company whose director is mr ling. the plaintiffs in suit 8 sued the first defendant, mr then feng (“mr then”), seeking to recover misappropriated moneys totalling us$5,268,000 and s$1,223,000 (“the sums”), which they had transferred to a bank account in the name of walkers professional services ltd (“wps”). 2 the plaintiffs in suit 8 pleaded as follows. they were looking to purchase a bank when mr then falsely represented to them that: he was a solicitor at walkers solicitors, a global law firm (“walkers”); walkers would act as their solicitors for the bank purchase; and they could transfer the sums to a bank account owned and controlled by walkers for these purchase moneys to be held on escrow. they relied on these misrepresentations to transfer the sums to the bank account in wps’ name, and would not have done so had they known that wps was not affiliated with walkers. mr then thereafter dishonestly informed the plaintiffs that he had purchased one freelance bank ltd (“freelance bank”) for us$4 million, when the actual purchase price was less than us$4 million. furthermore, unknown to the plaintiffs, mr then agreed to return ownership of freelance bank to the vendor in exchange for a different bank, royal eastern bank ltd (“royal eastern bank”), which was also less than us$4 million. when the plaintiffs sought the return of the remainder of the sums (“the remaining sums”), mr then confessed that wps was not owned and controlled by walkers but was instead his own personal vehicle. he also confessed that wps no longer had the moneys and that he had used them for his own purposes. the remaining sums had not been repaid. the plaintiffs hence sought to recover the sums on the grounds of deceit, unjust enrichment, and/or claims in partnership.3 mr then in suit 8 pleaded as follows. mr ling was at all times aware that walkers had no relationship with or control over wps, and that mr then managed wps and used it as his personal vehicle. freelance bank was purchased in november 2018 for us$4 million, and mr ling was at all times aware that freelance bank was exchanged for royal eastern bank. the remaining sums were loaned to one mr frederic willy gaillard (“mr gaillard”) with mr ling’s knowledge. mr ling agreed that no steps would be taken to recover the funds from wps or mr then pending the repayment of the loan by mr gaillard.4 sic/s 5/2020 (“suit 5”) was related to suit 8 and they were thus ordered to be tried together. there, four investors sued mr ling, pam, mr then, and one mr cheng yi han (“mr cheng”), for the recovery of their investments. however, the plaintiffs settled with mr ling and pam prior to the commencement of trial. mid-way through trial, suit 5 was adjourned. this was because the plaintiffs settled with mr cheng leaving mr then as the sole defendant, and time was needed for the plaintiffs to amend their statement of claim and affidavits of evidence-in-chief to make clear what their case against mr then was, as well as for mr then to prepare his cross-examination of the plaintiffs’ witnesses. however, suit 8 continued as per planned after a short adjournment. after the plaintiffs in suit 8 finished leading their evidence, mr then submitted that there was no case to answer.the court’s decision5 where a defendant makes a submission of no case to answer, the court must assess the evidence which has been called by the plaintiff to see whether they have established a prima facie case on each of the essential elements of the claims made by him. to the extent that they have, the action will succeed since the plaintiff would necessarily also have proved his case against the defendant on a balance of probabilities: at [18] to [24].6 there are five elements to establish the tort of deceit. first, there must be a representation of fact made by words or conduct. second, the representation must be made with the intention that it should be acted upon by the plaintiff, or by a class of persons which includes the plaintiff. third, it must be proved that the plaintiff had acted upon the false statement. fourth, it must be proved that the plaintiff suffered damage by so doing. fifth, the representation must be made with knowledge that it is false; it must be wilfully false, or at least made in the absence of any genuine belief that it is true: at [41] to [42].7 mr then was liable to the plaintiffs for the tort of deceit as he had falsely represented to mr ling that wps was a company owned and controlled by walkers which would hold money in escrow to the plaintiffs’ order, despite knowing that this was false, with the intention that mr ling should act on it and deposit money into the wps bank account. mr ling had relied on this misrepresentation in transferring the sums to wps’ bank account. further, mr then had falsely represented to mr ling that the purchase price of freelance bank was us$4 million, despite knowing that this was false, with the intention that mr ling should act on it and agree to the purchase of the bank for us$4 million. mr ling relied on this in authorising the purchase, and suffered damage as the purchase price was no more than eu$130,000. there was also no evidence that the remaining sums had been loaned to mr gaillard: at [43] to [120].  8 there was no need to decide the claim on unjust enrichment since the relief for that would be the same as that for deceit. the claim in partnership failed as there was no joint venture in the form of a partnership: at [121] to [127].9 the court directed parties to tender further written submissions on the quantum of damages which should be awarded for deceit. the submissions should also deal with costs and other ancillary matters, if not agreed: at [128] to [133].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.