supreme court of singapore10 september 2021case summarylao holdings nv v government of the lao people’s democratic republic and another matter [2021] sghc(i) 10 originating summonses no 5 and 6 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of quentin loh jad, vivian ramsey ij and douglas jones ij:outcome: sicc dismisses the applications to set aside investor-state arbitral awards.  introduction1 these were applications by lao holdings nv (“lh”) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, sanum investments limited (“sanum”), to set aside two arbitral awards made in arbitrations conducted under bilateral investment treaties with the defendant, the government of the lao people’s democratic republic (“gol”).background2 the underlying dispute between the parties concerned claims of expropriation and other bilateral investment treaty claims in relation to the plaintiffs’ investments in the laotian gaming and hospitality industry.3 lh was a company incorporated in the netherlands. sanum was a company incorporated in macau. john k baldwin (“mr baldwin”) was the owner of 50% of lh and the chairman of sanum’s board of directors. 4 the plaintiffs had partnered with a laotian conglomerate, st group co ltd (“st group”), and its related entities and individuals from 2007 to 2013 to conduct business in laos. in partnership with st group, they invested in projects including: (a) the savan vegas hotel and casino complex (“savan vegas”), which was built and operated successfully; (b) the paksong vegas hotel and casino complex (“paksong vegas”), which was never developed; and (c) various slot clubs, including the “lao bao club”, the “ferry terminal club”, the “thanaleng club”, the “paksan club”, and the “thakhaek club” (which was planned for but not developed).5 in august 2012, lh commenced arbitration proceedings against gol (the “icsid arbitration”) under the auspices of the international centre for settlement of investment disputes, pursuant to the bilateral investment treaty between gol and the kingdom of the netherlands. on the same day, sanum commenced arbitration proceedings against gol (“the pca arbitration”) under the auspices of the permanent court of arbitration, pursuant to the bilateral investment treaty between gol and macau (now the people’s republic of china). the tribunal in the icsid arbitration (the “icsid tribunal”) and the tribunal in the pca arbitration (the “pca tribunal”, collectively, the “bit tribunals”) shared common party-appointed arbitrators, albeit with different presiding arbitrators. the icsid and pca arbitrations (the “bit arbitrations”) were not consolidated but involved significant overlapping facts, were conducted largely in parallel, and were the subject of joint hearings by both the icsid and pca tribunals.6 just prior to the commencement of the merits hearings in june 2014, the parties concluded a deed of settlement (the “settlement deed”) together with a side letter dated 18 june 2014 (together, “the settlement”). as a result, the pca tribunal and the icsid tribunal each suspended the respective arbitrations by consent. the settlement deed allowed the plaintiffs to revive the bit arbitrations in the event that gol was in material breach of certain provisions in the settlement deed. further, it provided in section 34 of the settlement deed that if the bit arbitrations were revived, neither the plaintiffs nor gol were permitted to “add any new claims or evidence to the arbitration nor seek any additional reliefs not already sought in the proceedings”.7 in april 2016 and february 2017, the plaintiffs submitted an application, to revive the bit arbitrations, to the icsid tribunal and pca tribunal respectively. in december 2017, the bit tribunals found that there was a material breach of the settlement deed and ordered the bit arbitrations to be revived.8 on 15 may 2018, gol filed an application to introduce the following three categories of additional evidence (“gol’s application to admit additional evidence”): (a) two awards rendered in other arbitrations between the plaintiffs and st group (the “st siac arbitration”), and the plaintiffs and gol (the “gol siac arbitration”); (b) documentary evidence and sworn testimony relevant to gol’s defences relating to allegations of bribery, corruption and fraud; and (c) an accounting report (the “bdo report”) commissioned by gol after the execution of the settlement deed. the plaintiffs objected to the admission of this evidence. 9 the bit tribunals ruled on gol’s application to admit additional evidence in pca procedural order no 9 (“pca po 9”) and icsid procedural order procedural order no 11 (“icsid po 11”), finding that it retained the residual discretion (notwithstanding section 34 of the settlement deed) to admit evidence, and that the record would remain “frozen” unless it was satisfied that there were “compelling circumstances” to admit additional evidence. the bit tribunals admitted: (a) the award rendered in the st siac arbitration; (b) the second category of evidence; and (c) the bdo report insofar as it dealt with gol’s allegations of bribery and corruption (collectively, the “bribery/fraud allegations material”).10 on 16 july 2018, the plaintiffs submitted a request to introduce their own additional evidence to rebut gol’s additional evidence, including an expert report (the “kurlantzick report”). while the bit tribunals admitted other pieces of additional evidence, the kurlantzick report was not admitted.11 on 10 august 2018, gol made a further application to introduce, inter alia, the witness statement of mr angus roderick noble (the “noble ws”) which related to the offer that mr noble’s company, maxgaming consulting services limited (macau) (“maxgaming”) had purportedly made to purchase savan vegas for us$220m pursuant to the settlement, and which had been submitted in the gol siac arbitration. the bit tribunals granted this application as other evidence had already been admitted concerning allegations of fraud in relation to the maxgaming offer.12 the merits hearing was conducted on 3 to 7 september 2018 (the “merits hearing”). proceedings were closed on 17 july 2019. the final awards were rendered in the icsid arbitration (the “icsid award”) and the pca arbitration (the “pca award”) on 6 august 2019, in which the bit tribunals dismissed all of the plaintiffs’ claims and awarded costs to gol (collectively, the “bit awards”).13 concerning gol’s defences based on fraud, bribery and corruption, the bit tribunals made four findings (the “four findings”) that, on a lower standard of the balance of probabilities, four allegations of fraud and corruption were made out. on the basis of the four findings, the bit tribunals found that the plaintiffs had dealt in bad faith with gol from the outset and this continued into the arbitration proceedings. hence, the plaintiffs were disentitled from any treaty reliefs sought. moreover, the bit tribunals held that the plaintiffs’ claims were not supported by the evidence in any event.14 lh and sanum applied to set aside the icsid award and the pca award respectively, in whole or in part, under the international arbitration act (cap 143a, 2002 rev ed) (“iaa”) and the uncitral model law on international commercial arbitration (the “model law”), on the grounds that: a. the bit tribunals exceeded their jurisdiction and dealt with matters beyond the express scope of the parties’ submission to arbitration (under art 34(2)(a)(iii) of the model law) (i) by considering gol’s new allegations of fraud or illegality and admitting the bribery/fraud allegations material; and (ii) (in relation to the icsid tribunal only) considering expropriation claims relating to paksong vegas, the paksan club and the thahkahek club which were not submitted to it and had only been submitted to the pca tribunal;b. the arbitral procedure in the bit arbitrations was not in accordance with the parties’ express agreement (under art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law) as the bit tribunals had admitted additional evidence in breach of section 34 of the settlement deed; and/or c. the plaintiffs were not afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard on determinations made in the bit awards (under art 34(2)(a)(ii) of the model law and/or s 24(b) of the iaa). decision15 the court identified the following issues for determination (at [51]):a. the scope of section 34 and whether the bit tribunals had exceeded the scope of submission to arbitration in allowing further evidence to be admitted into the record;b. whether the bit tribunals’ findings on expropriation exceeded the scope of the submission to arbitration;c. whether there was a material breach of agreed arbitral procedures warranting the intervention of the court; andd. whether the plaintiffs were given the reasonable opportunity to be heard.scope of submission to arbitration: section 34 of the settlement deed16 for the purposes of the challenge under art 34(2)(a)(iii) of the model law, the key words in section 34 were “claims” and “reliefs”. insofar as the plaintiffs’ contentions concerned the bit tribunals’ treatment of “evidence” under section 34, they were not contentions capable of coming within the terms of art 34(2)(a)(iii). not all agreements on procedure, by their nature, defined the scope of submission to arbitration. in this case, the agreement as to evidence could not go to the scope of submission to arbitration, as they were procedural matters and did not go to jurisdiction: at [68].17 the additional allegations of bribery and fraud forming the basis of the plaintiffs’ challenge against the bit awards were not “new claims” as they formed part of gol’s existing defence of corruption, bribery, illegality and/or bad faith, and were not new causes of action. they were also not “new reliefs” as gol had always sought a dismissal of the plaintiffs’ claims: at [70].18 in any event, as the plaintiffs did not raise a jurisdictional objection at the time of gol’s application to admit additional evidence and the bit tribunals’ decision to admit new evidence, they had waived any jurisdictional challenge (at [73]). however, the plaintiffs would not have been barred from making such a challenge by virtue of art 16 of the model law, as the bit tribunals did not in fact rule on the issue of jurisdiction in pca po 9 and icsid po 11, which dealt only with the admission of evidence. the bit tribunals only made decisions relating to the specific allegations in the bit awards: at [76] and [77].scope of submission to arbitration: issues outside the icsid arbitration19 lh submitted that the icsid tribunal had made findings or rulings on expropriation claims relating to paksong vegas, the paksan club and the thakhaek club, which were only advanced by sanum in the pca arbitration. the court found that while the expropriation claims for the three projects were only made in the pca arbitration, it was evident that the issues of illegality and bad faith relating to the three projects were raised in the icsid arbitration, both in the pleadings and the evidence: at [104]. the icsid tribunal had in mind that it did not have the jurisdiction to consider the issues of expropriation raised in relation to those three projects. it was entitled, however, to consider and make findings on the issues of illegality and bad faith relating to the three projects, which were within its jurisdiction as part of gol’s defence. therefore, the court rejected this ground: at [106] to [108]. material breach of agreed arbitration procedure20 the court considered three issues in relation to the plaintiffs’ claim under art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law (at [120]): a. whether the admission of new evidence was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties; b. if the admission of new evidence was not in accordance with the parties’ agreement, whether there had nonetheless been a waiver of the breach of section 34 by way of the plaintiffs’ conduct; andc. whether, in any event, prejudice had been suffered by the plaintiffs.21 by referring the issue of the interpretation of section 34 to the bit tribunals as part of their decision on gol’s application to admit additional evidence, the parties had given the bit tribunals jurisdiction to decide that matter. on that basis, the bit tribunals’ decision on the interpretation of section 34 would not be a matter which the court could consider de novo: at [130]. in any event, it was not appropriate for the court to do so as the interpretation of section 34 by the bit tribunals involved findings of fact as to foreign law: at [142]. in the further alternative, the court would have found that the bit tribunals retained the residual power to admit additional evidence in exceptional circumstances: at [144]. if section 34 did preclude such additional evidence, the court would have found that the bit tribunals had the duty, in these circumstances, to review and admit evidence of corruption, and no agreement could prevent the arbitral tribunal from doing so: at [153] and [154].22 if the admission of new evidence was not in accordance with the parties’ agreement, the majority of the court would have found that there was nonetheless a waiver of the breach of section 34 by the plaintiffs’ conduct in applying to admit their own additional evidence without a reservation of their rights in relation to the proper interpretation of section 34. the other member of the court considered that the conduct was consistent with the plaintiffs protecting their own interests subsequent to the bit tribunals’ decision to admit additional evidence and did not amount to a waiver: at [195].23 in any event, the court would have found that the plaintiffs had not suffered prejudice. while the court was of the view that the bit tribunals could reasonably have reached a different conclusion on two of the four findings, the bit tribunals could not have reasonably arrived at a different conclusion on the plaintiffs’ conduct in terms of illegality, corruption, bribery and/or fraud in the face of the other two findings which were established on bases other than the additional evidence: at [235]. as for the bit tribunals’ decisions on the merits of the plaintiffs’ claims, there was no basis for the contention that their conclusions were made on the basis of substantial reliance on gol’s new evidence or was tainted by the four findings and the bit tribunals’ finding of manifest bad faith on the plaintiffs’ part: at [262] and [276]. hence, the bit tribunals could not reasonably have arrived at a different overall result, without the additional evidence that was admitted: at [278].24 for these reasons, the court dismissed the plaintiffs’ arguments that the bit awards should be set aside under art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law: at [285].reasonable opportunity to be heard25 the plaintiffs claimed that they were not afforded a reasonable opportunity to present their case on six grounds: at [289]. the court rejected each of these grounds.26 first, the plaintiffs claimed that they did not have reasonable notice of the bit tribunals’ intention to rely on the bdo report as disclosing a motive for the plaintiffs to stop an audit of savan vegas, which prevented them from fully addressing the bdo report or cross-examining its maker. the court disagreed. the bit tribunals had expressly admitted the bdo report insofar as it dealt with gol’s allegations of bribery and corruption, and the plaintiffs were clearly on notice of the relevance of the bdo report: at [312]. 27 second, the plaintiffs submitted that the bit tribunals’ refusal to admit the kurlantzick report impaired the plaintiffs’ ability to respond to the bribery/fraud allegations material. the court found instead that the plaintiffs had been given an opportunity to make submissions on whether the bit tribunals should admit the kurlantzick report, and this decision was not open to challenge. the kurlantzick report provided general evidence and the court saw no basis on which it could have made a difference to the outcome of the case: at [322] and [323].28 third, the plaintiffs argued that the bit tribunals attributed to gol arguments on the functions of the laotian national assembly which had never been made, and then relied on those arguments to make an adverse finding against the plaintiffs on a bribery allegation. the court held, however, that the issue of the functions of the laotian national assembly was not the basis of the bit tribunals’ findings on that allegation: at [339]. in any event, the plaintiffs were aware of the need for an explanation of what lobbying the laotian national assembly could achieve in the context of mr baldwin’s evidence, and there would have been no breach of natural justice even if the bit tribunals had come to a conclusion on that issue: at [340].29 fourth, the plaintiffs claimed that the bit tribunals made a surprise finding that a witness had been bribed into not testifying for gol, relying on an erroneous procedural history. the court found that while the date for the relevant hearing may have been wrong, that was not a basis for setting aside the award. in any event, the conclusions on this bribe were based on contentions that were well-rehearsed in the evidence: at [350] and [351]. 30 fifth, the plaintiffs submitted that the bit tribunals made a surprise finding on the maxgaming offer in reliance on mr noble’s testimony which parties had agreed was irrelevant. the court, however, found that it was not common ground that mr noble’s evidence was irrelevant: at [359]. 31 sixth, the plaintiffs claimed that gol never argued that “bad faith” alone would disentitle the plaintiffs to treaty relief, and the bit tribunals’ conclusion that the finding of bad faith alone, established on a balance of probabilities, could do so was reached without parties being heard on the legal position. the court disagreed. first, it found that gol had relied on a separate defence based on bad faith: at [385]. second, in relation to the standard of proof, it was equally clear that the parties had the opportunity of making submissions on the standard of proof and did so: at [392], [398] to [400]. 32 hence, the court rejected the plaintiffs’ application to set aside the bit awards on the basis of art 34(2)(a)(ii) of the model law or s 24(b) of the iaa.conclusion33 for the reasons above, the court dismissed the plaintiffs’ applications to set aside the bit awards: at [403].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.