template for case summariessupreme court of singapore5 july 2021case summaryulp and others v uls [2021] sghcf 19district court appeal no 52 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (family division) (delivered by justice choo han teck):outcome: high court allows revocation of a lasting power of attorney on the ground that there was undue pressure.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  mental capacity had to be assessed at the material time, which in this case was 30 june 2015. based on the expert evidence, the court was of the view that the donor, “p”, had mental capacity to execute the lpa. however, the affidavit evidence showed an acrimonious relationship between the donee of the lpa (the “respondent”) and his family, including p. the respondent’s testimony also contributed to an impression of undue pressure. considering the entirety of both the affidavit and medical evidence led to the conclusion that the respondent had an intense revulsion of his father and sisters (the “appellants”), and p was a person of frail and malleable mind at the material time. in the court’s view, the respondent had probably exerted undue pressure on p.1 this was an appeal against the decision of the district judge (“dj”) not to revoke a lasting power of attorney (“lpa”) under the mental capacity act (cap 177a, 2010 rev ed) (“mca”) for “p”, a 64-year-old retired tamil language teacher. the high court (the “court”) allowed the appeal on the ground that p was under undue pressure when she executed the lpa.background to the appeal2 p executed an lpa on 30 june 2015 when she was 58, appointing her son as the donee (the “respondent”). p’s husband and their two daughters (the “appellants”) applied to revoke the lpa on the basis that p lacked capacity under the mca. the dj dismissed the application and the appellants appealed against his decision. facts3 the affidavits filed in the proceedings below revealed a complex family relationship, full of conflict and intense acrimony between the respondent and his father, the first appellant. the respondent sent a long, vitriolic email to his father dated 5 november 2012, blaming his father for preventing him from studying liberal arts overseas and forcing him to study medicine in singapore instead: at [3] to [6].4 the respondent says p started being forgetful sometime in 2009. the respondent brought her to see dr nagaendran kandiah (“dr nagaendran”), a consultant neurologist at the national neuroscience institute, in early 2010. p continued seeing him from february 2010 to april 2015. at the last session, dr nagaendran recorded that p had “moderate stage dementia of the alzheimer’s type”. throughout this time, the respondent was unhappy with how the appellants cared for p. on 25 june 2015, the respondent was informed by one of his paternal aunts that the first appellant intended to obtain an lpa for p: at [7] to [8].5 on 30 june 2015, the respondent brought p to see dr joshua kua (“dr kua”), who was the lpa certificate issuer. p used her thumbprint to “sign” the lpa. the lpa was registered with the office of the public guardian (“opg”) on 4 september 2015. the first appellant says the respondent forcibly removed p from the matrimonial home on 19 september 2015: at [9].6 the family relationships deteriorated further thereafter, with the respondent denying the appellants access to p. in october 2015, the first appellant commenced divorce proceedings against p, citing her unreasonable behaviour in granting the lpa to the respondent, although he discontinued these proceedings in march 2016. from december 2015 to early 2016, the respondent attended interviews at the opg in response to complaints made against him. on 23 march 2017, the appellants filed an application to challenge the validity of the lpa: at [10] to [12].7 the dj dismissed the application. he said there was nothing to suggest dr kua’s evidence was untrue and the appellants had failed to prove dr kua’s opinion there had been no undue pressure on p was wrong. the dj took the view that greater weight should be given to dr kua’s evidence in relation to mental capacity to execute the lpa as compared to dr nagaendran’s evidence as dr nagaendran last saw p about two months prior to the execution of the lpa and was not specifically assessing her capacity to execute the lpa: at [13].decision on appeal8 the court affirmed the dj’s decision that p had mental capacity to execute the lpa on 30 june 2015. the clinical component in re bkr [2015] 4 slr 81 was satisfied, as p had dementia on 30 june 2015. as for the functional component, based on the clinical notes and evidence of the doctors under cross-examination in the proceedings below, the court found that dr nagaendran’s sessions with p were not for the purpose of assessing whether she had mental capacity to execute an lpa but for the purpose of assessing whether p had dementia (or some other cognitive impairment) and monitoring the progress of her condition. while dr nagaendran’s clinical notes showed a decline in p’s mini-mental state examination scores over time, this did not show that p lacked mental capacity to execute the lpa on 30 june 2015: at [19], [21], [28] to [31].9 mental capacity had to be assessed at the material time, which in this case was 30 june 2015. since dr kua assessed p on 30 june 2015, the court agreed with the dj that greater weight should be given to his opinion. in the court’s view, dr kua’s clinical notes from 30 june 2015 showed that p had mental capacity. although the “darzin’s test” was only mentioned in the last of dr kua’s medical reports, the court hesitated to infer that this meant dr kua had not actually applied the test. the court did not have sufficient evidence to overturn the dj’s finding on dr kua’s credibility: at [34] to [36].10 as for the submission that dr kua did not comply with the singapore medical council ethical code and ethical guidelines 2016 (“guidelines)” and the mca code of practice (“code”), there was no provision in the mca that requires courts to take the guidelines into account in mca-related decisions, although it would, nonetheless, be sensible for doctors to comply with these guidelines. as for the code, while it would be prudent for doctors to keep contemporaneous, detailed records of their discussions with patients, including the questions that they asked, the court did not agree that dr kua’s clinical notes contravened paragraph 6.6 of the code. though brief, they were clear so far as the basis for his assessment was concerned. finally, the court did not think that the allegedly short length of time (45 minutes) that dr kua had taken to help p make her decision could be relied upon to impugn his assessment, as the time required to assess a patient’s mental capacity may differ from person to person: at [38] to [39].11 second, in considering whether there was undue pressure on p, the court found from the affidavit evidence that there was intense acrimony between the respondent and his parents since about 2010. the court thus doubted that the respondent could have resolved matters with p in 2014, as the respondent claimed, especially when p was already showing signs of cognitive impairment at that time. it was also odd that the respondent insisted on caring for p at that juncture: at [44].12 dr kua’s clinical notes recorded that he had been told the relevant information about p’s relationship with her husband and son while the son was absent from the room. however, just because the respondent was sitting outside the room did not mean there was “no undue influence” on p. dr kua’s testimony was that he would have asked p more questions about her relationship with her son had he known the details of the family conflict that were presented later at the trial, including why p wanted to appoint her son as her donee when their relationship was so strained. had dr kua asked p those questions, there was a reasonable possibility that he may have reached a different opinion on whether p was under undue pressure at the time, depending on p’s answers: at [45] to [48].13 lastly, the respondent’s testimony contributed to the court’s impression that he had placed p under undue pressure. he brought p to see dr kua just 5 days after the message from his paternal aunt saying that his father intended to obtain an lpa for p. his aunt also asked him on 28 june for his lawyer’s name as they (presumably, his father and sisters), wanted to “contest [the respondent’s] objection” to the first appellant’s intended application for an lpa. the respondent selected dr kua to see p because he needed the lpa urgently and dr kua had the earliest appointment. it seems this rush to execute the lpa was motivated less by concern for p’s welfare than animosity towards his family. further, the respondent also testified that he told p he would have to “leave without her” if she did not tell dr kua that she wanted the respondent to care for her. if he had told her that in the context of the 30 june 2015 visit to dr kua, there was a reasonable possibility that this could have operated on p’s mind to induce her into signing the lpa, lest the respondent “leave” her at the clinic with no way of going home: at [49].14 considering all the evidence, the court found the respondent’s insistence on becoming p’s primary caregiver and denying the rest of his family access to p to be a matter that required closer examination, given that the respondent had an intense revulsion of his father and sisters and p was a person with a frail and malleable mind at the material time. the court found that the respondent had probably exerted undue pressure on p to execute the lpa, and thus exercised its discretion to revoke the lpa and directed the public guardian to cancel the registration of the relevant instrument. since all parties agreed that p now lacked mental capacity, the court was of the view that the parties should apply to the court to appoint a deputy for p. if none of the parties were found to be suitable deputies, a professional deputy could be appointed by the court: at [50] to [51].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.