supreme court of singapore1 july 2021case summaryteo seng tiong v public prosecutor [2021] sgca 65 criminal reference no 2 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice tay yong kwang):outcome: coa decides that a court can take into account offences compounded under the road traffic act as an aggravating factor when sentencing an offence under the road traffic act or any other law.a court can also take into account offences compounded under any other law as an aggravating factor when sentencing an offence under the road traffic act or any other law.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the composition of an offence is really a hybrid between conviction and acquittal because it is presumptively an admission of guilt when a composition offer is accepted and yet it is regarded having the effect of an acquittal (at [79]).•  although the alleged offender cannot be charged anymore for the compounded offence, the composition can be brought up as part of the past conduct if the alleged offender is subsequently charged and convicted in some other matter (at [80]).•  there is no question of double jeopardy in such cases as the prosecution is not seeking to revive an offence. the prosecution is permitted by s 228(2) of the criminal procedure code to address the sentencing court on “any relevant factors which may affect the sentence” and this includes compounded offences (at [80]).•  it is open to an offender to deny that the alleged offences that were compounded occurred and it is also open to him to submit that he accepted the composition offers for reasons other than admission of guilt (at [101]).•  if the prosecution wishes, it is equally open to it to prove that the offender did commit the compounded offence. in such matters, good sense on the part of all concerned should guide the way (at [102]).•  this principle, as codified in s 139aa of the road traffic act, is of general application and applies to compounded offences under the road traffic act or any other law in the sentencing of an offence which is under the road traffic act or any other law (at [107]).background to the appeals1 the appellant was driving his lorry along the left lane of pasir ris drive 3, a two-lane road. two friends were cycling side by side along the left lane of that road, in the same direction as and ahead of the lorry. the cyclist who was cycling in the middle of the left lane was mr cheung eric hoyu (“eric”), then 35 years old, a national of the united kingdom. the other cyclist was closer to the road kerb.2 the applicant attempted to overtake the cyclists but was unsuccessful because there were vehicles on the right lane and eric’s bicycle was in the middle of the left lane. the cyclists stopped at a traffic lights-controlled junction. the applicant’s lorry stopped behind them but moved forward incrementally until it was very close to eric’s bicycle, making eric very uncomfortable as he was aware of the lorry’s movements.3 when the traffic lights turned green, the cyclists and the lorry moved on. the applicant tried to overtake the cyclists again by moving into the right lane of the road. a taxi driver on the right lane applied his brakes and sounded his horn at the lorry. eric eventually relented and moved his bicycle closer to the road kerb to allow the lorry to overtake him. however, when the lorry was alongside eric, he reached out and struck the lorry’s left side-view mirror, causing part of it to break off.4 in retaliation, the applicant swerved the lorry sharply to the left into the path of eric’s bicycle and the lorry came into contact with eric’s body, causing him to fall onto the grass verge on the left side of the road. eric suffered some injuries at his left elbow and left knee. there was also damage to the bicycle. the applicant stopped the lorry, got down and scolded eric for damaging the lorry’s side-view mirror. he also claimed that he had called the police and he pointed his mobile phone at eric, telling him that he was recording a video. eric snatched the mobile phone away but returned it to the applicant later. the applicant then got back into the lorry and drove away without exchanging particulars with eric.5 the applicant was charged with, and claimed trial to, two charges of doing an act so rashly as to endanger human life (under s 337(a) of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed)) and failing to report the incident within 24 hours after the accident (punishable under s 131(2) of the road traffic act (cap 276, 2004 rev ed) (“the rta”)).6 on the first charge, the dj sentenced the applicant to seven weeks’ imprisonment and disqualified him from holding or obtaining all classes of driving licence for two years (“the dq order”) with effect from the date of his release from prison. on the second charge, the dj imposed a fine of $500, in default three days’ imprisonment. the applicant was granted bail pending his appeal against conviction and sentence. the fine and the dq order were also stayed. in sentencing, the dj took into account the applicant’s poor driving record (at [8]–[11]).7 the applicant’s appeal to the high court on conviction and sentence was dismissed on 20 july 2020. as the applicant did not apply for deferment of sentence, he commenced serving the seven weeks’ imprisonment imposed for the first charge. he was released from prison on 24 august 2020 and the dq order for 2 years therefore took effect from that date: (at [12]).8 on 2 september 2020, the applicant applied in criminal motion no 25 of 2020 (the “cm”) for an extension of time to apply for leave to bring a question of law of public interest to this court pursuant to s 397(3) of the criminal procedure code (cap 68, 2012 rev ed) (“cpc”) and for such leave to be granted. the prosecution consented to the cm being dealt with on paper without an oral hearing. (at [13]–[14]). the question posed in the cm was as follows (the “question”):whether a court may take into account any offence that has been compounded under the road traffic act as an aggravating factor to determine the appropriate sentence(a) for an offence committed by a person under the road traffic act; and(b) for an offence committed by a person not under the road traffic act without legislative intervention?9 on 8 october 2020, a three-judge court of appeal granted the cm by consent of the parties. subsequently, the present five-judge court of appeal was convened to hear oral arguments on the question. after hearing the parties on 4 march 2021, judgment was reserved (at [14]).the court’s findings on composition of an offence and its effect10 a composition refers to a form of settlement agreement between the injured party and the accused. the concept can be traced to the indian criminal procedure code under s 345 of act x of 1882 and the 1985 version of the criminal procedure code (cap 68, 1985 rev ed) and was amended by the statutes (miscellaneous amendments) act 2004 and the 2012 amendments to the cpc (at [51]–[59]).11 the act of entering into a settlement agreement does not mean necessarily that one is admitting liability or guilt although that is one real possibility. some offences are compounded for the sake of expedience. in the case of road traffic offences, the composition procedure is used for the efficient disposition of less serious traffic violations (at [60]–[65]). 12 it is correct that even in cases where an alleged offender was observed committing the offending act by an enforcement officer, guilt may not be proved as the alleged offender could avail himself of potential defences. however, if the alleged offender is then offered composition and he accepts the composition and pays the specified amount without protest, it is reasonable and logical to deduce that he admits that he did commit the alleged offence (at [66]). accordingly, it would be at least a presumptive admission of guilt until it is shown otherwise, since people who are alleged to have committed an offence would not pay the composition amount if they deny having committed any offence or assert that they have a defence to the alleged offence. this is particularly so in traffic offences if accepting the composition offer would also entail accepting demerit points which can result eventually in disqualification from driving. it would be up to the alleged offender who asserts that he accepted an offer of composition despite his innocence to provide and prove the reason(s) for having done so (at [67]–[68]).13 a composition, however, has the effect of an acquittal. although s 135(1a) of the rta and s 243(5) of the penal code do not mention the word “acquittal”, this was only because it was not necessary to do since the accused had not been charged in court. there was also no material indicating that parliament intended to draw a distinction between offences under the penal code and those under other statutes (at [69]–[73]). therefore, putting a stop to further proceedings pursuant to ss 241(4), 242(3) and 243(5) of the cpc and s 135(1a) of the rta has essentially the same effect as an acquittal in ss 241(5) and 242(4) of the cpc. in both situations, the effect of composition is that the alleged offender cannot be charged subsequently in respect of the compounded offence. this is the manifestation of the doctrine of autrefois acquit which prevents double jeopardy and this legal protection is set out in art 11(2) of the constitution and in s 244(1) of the cpc (at [74]–[78]).the court’s observations on compounded offences as sentencing considerations14 a composition of an offence is really a hybrid between conviction (where there is a finding of guilt because the charge is proved) and acquittal (where there is a finding of not guilty because the charge is not proved or there is a valid defence in law). composition is a hybrid because it is presumptively an admission of guilt (until proved otherwise) when the alleged offender accepts the composition offer without protest and yet it is regarded as an acquittal or having the effect of an acquittal (at [79]).15 composition of an offence is beneficial to the prosecution and to the alleged offender for the reasons discussed earlier. in addition, the alleged offender does not have to worry about being prosecuted for an offence once he has compounded it. further, compositions do not amount to a criminal record which can affect a person’s employment or profession adversely. where the alleged offence provides for imprisonment and fine, accepting a composition offer gives the alleged offender the extra comfort of avoiding possible imprisonment (at [79]).16 although the alleged offender cannot be charged anymore for the compounded offence, the composition can be brought up in court as part of the past conduct of that alleged offender in the event that he is charged and convicted in some other matter subsequently. in such a situation, the prosecution is not seeking to revive an offence which has been compounded and there is therefore no question of double jeopardy (at [80]).17 the sentencing process takes into account all factors that may either mitigate or aggravate the offence before the court. the accused person’s conduct, past and present, is probably the most commonly raised factor in the sentencing process, whether it is to his advantage or to his detriment. it cannot be disputed that a person’s composition history is part of that person’s past conduct. there can therefore be no impediment in law to look at such past conduct during the sentencing process (at [81]).the court’s decision18 as a matter of law, a court may take into account offences compounded under the rta as an aggravating factor when sentencing an offence under the rta. likewise, a court can take into account offences compounded under the rta as an aggravating factor when sentencing an offence under any other law (at [103]). 19 as a matter of fact, whether those compounded offences amount to aggravation so as to warrant an enhancement of the sentence again involves good sense in application, bearing in mind the considerations of time and factual relevance. just as in the case of previous convictions, one or two compounded offences in the distant past, especially if the offender was much younger then, may not carry much weight as an aggravating factor for the instant offence under the rta or any other law being considered in sentencing. similarly, if the compounded offence relates to late payment of the vehicle’s annual road tax, it may have no effect on the sentence to be passed for an offence of dangerous driving (at [103]).20 the same considerations apply when considering offences compounded under any other law in the sentencing of an offence which is under the rta or any other law. it follows that compounded offences under the rta can be considered in sentencing an offence that is not under the rta and compounded offences under any other law can likewise be considered in sentencing an offence that is under the rta (at [104]). 21 the prosecution informed the court that since february 2020, notices of composition issued by the traffic police under s 135 of the rta contained a note informing the accused that the composition may be considered as an aggravating factor in future. the prosecution also stated that for the future, it will have regard to offences compounded under the rta in sentencing for non-rta offences only where such warning has been given to the offender. this could be done through an express statutory provision, the composition notice or any other reasonable means (at [108]).22 the court of appeal therefore answered the question in the affirmative. it also followed that the issue about the length of the dq order did not arise at all. nevertheless, for the sake of completeness, the court determined that there was no reason why the dq order should be said to be excessive in length. the applicant may have been provoked first by eric’s insistence on cycling in the middle of the left lane and his subsequent conduct in damaging the left side-view mirror but his retaliation by veering the lorry sharply into the path of the moving bicycle shows his attitude towards road safety and lack of concern about possible injury to other road-users. it has been reiterated over the years that a motor vehicle can be a lethal weapon with the wrong person at the steering wheel (at [109]–[121]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.