supreme court of singapore9 october 2023case summaryre chester lee jun ming and other matters [2023] sghc 282general division of the high court – admission of advocates and solicitors nos 258, 363 and 370 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):outcome: the court allows three applications for admission as advocates and solicitors of the supreme court.pertinent and significant points of the court’s grounds of decision•  in admission applications, the court should not engage in social accounting and take a lenient approach towards admission just because the applicant may have served a period of imprisonment or incurred other types of hardship. however, criminal punishment may be relevant because of its rehabilitative effect on the offender. criminal punishment can provide the impetus for an offender to understand why what they have done was wrong and to reform themselves to avoid doing the same again. where an applicant has faced criminal punishment and maintained a clean record over a long period thereafter, it may be reasonable to conclude that the criminal punishment has been effective to some extent in contributing to the reformation of his or her character: at [11]–[12].•  the fact that an applicant’s misconduct stems from a lack of academic diligence rather than a lack of academic integrity is highly relevant. while carelessness and a lack of diligence must not be seen to be acceptable qualities of an advocate and solicitor, they do not invariably suggest a flaw in character. whether they do so suggest will depend on, among other things, the degree of carelessness involved. where an individual demonstrates a lack of care so severe that it is indicative of a complete disregard for the value of the standards applicable to him or her, it might be fair to say that the individual has a character flaw rendering that person unfit to be an advocate and solicitor.decision1 the central inquiry in admission applications, where there is no question as to the applicant’s competence or qualifications, is whether the applicant in question is suitable for admission in terms of his or her character. the question is not whether the applicant has been sufficiently punished for his or her misconduct, but rather, whether the applicant has sufficiently reformed his or her character issues and demonstrated suitability to shoulder the weighty responsibilities that come with being an advocate and solicitor in singapore: at [2]–[3]. 2 for all three applications, the attorney-general, the law society of singapore and the singapore institute of legal education (the “stakeholders”) were satisfied that the applicants were fit and proper persons for admission in terms of their character: at [4].hc/aas 258/2023 – mr chester lee jun ming3 in may 2017, mr chester lee jun ming (“mr lee”) recorded two upskirt videos of a woman while on public transport. in january 2018, he pleaded guilty to one charge of insulting the modesty of a woman. he was convicted of the charge and sentenced to a one-month imprisonment term: at [5].4 these circumstances made it necessary to inquire further as to whether mr lee had a deficit of character at the time of his admission application. mr lee’s offence was severe, and someone capable of committing such an offence will almost invariably be found to be unfit for admission as an advocate and solicitor: at [6].5 however, mr lee’s application came six years after his offence. the facts showed that mr lee had sufficiently reformed his character in the intervening period and to that extent he was no longer the same person that he was when he committed the offence: at [7].6 the court should not engage in social accounting and take a lenient approach towards admission just because the applicant may have served a period of imprisonment or incurred other types of hardship. however, mr lee’s one-month imprisonment terms was relevant because virtually all forms of criminal punishment are ultimately intended to, and do, have some rehabilitative effect on the offender. criminal punishment can provide the impetus for an offender to understand why what they have done was wrong and to reform themselves to avoid doing the same again. where an applicant has faced criminal punishment and maintained a clean record over a long period thereafter, it may be reasonable to conclude that the criminal punishment has been effective to some extent in contributing to the reformation of his or her character. taken together with mr lee’s clean record since, mr lee’s one-month imprisonment term supported the conclusion that his character was indeed different from what it was at the time he committed the offence: at [11]–[12].hc/aas 363/2023 – mr chong weng teng7 during the final semester of his candidature with the national university of singapore (“nus”), mr chong was enrolled in a module which required him to submit a research paper for assessment (the “research paper”). in the research paper that he submitted, mr chong reused portions of another research paper that he had previously submitted for another module. such “self-plagiarism” was prohibited by nus’ plagiarism policy and nus law’s ethical conduct guidelines: at [16]–[18].8 mr chong explained that his offence arose out of his failure to check the nus plagiarism guidelines and that he ignorantly assumed that plagiarism only involved copying someone else’s work. the stakeholders accepted mr chong’s explanation that he was not dishonest when he self-plagiarised and that he was genuinely unaware that it was contrary to nus’ rules to reuse portions of his original work that he had previously submitted. the court too accepted this explanation: at [22]–[23].9 the fact that mr chong’s misconduct stemmed from a lack of academic diligence rather than a lack of academic integrity was highly relevant because the sole concern in his admission application was the question of his character. while carelessness and a lack of diligence must not be seen to be acceptable qualities of an advocate and solicitor, they do not invariably suggest a flaw in character. whether they do so suggest will depend on the degree of carelessness involved. where an individual demonstrates a lack of care so severe that it is indicative of a complete disregard for the value of the standards applicable to him, it might be fair to say that the individual has a character flaw rendering him or her unfit to be an advocate and solicitor: at [25].10 in this case, mr chong’s carelessness did not suggest a flaw in his character. it was important that mr chong immediately took ownership of his mistake by: (a) admitting to it; (b) apologising for it; and (c) accepting without reservation a very serious punishment that could have delayed his graduation. it was also relevant that mr chong gave full disclosure of his academic offence in his affidavit for admission despite the absence of a public record. this showed that mr chong apprehended the ethical implications of his actions: at [26].hc/aas 258/2023 – ms lin shuang ju11 ms lin authored an article for lexicon, a singapore management university (“smu”) student legal publication club which edits and collates articles for the singapore law journal (lexicon) (the “article”). after the article was published, smu received a complaint from another author that ms lin had plagiarised his work. after investigations, smu concluded that there was some evidence of plagiarism in the sense that ms lin used others’ work without appropriate attribution: at [29], [31] and [33].12 ms lin filed her first affidavit for admission on 26 july 2023 (the “first affidavit”). in the first affidavit, ms lin confirmed that she had no knowledge of any fact that affected her suitability to practice as an advocate and solicitor. when the first affidavit was filed, ms lin had already been informed by smu about the allegation of plagiarism: at [39].13 as with mr chong, the stakeholders accepted that ms lin had not demonstrated any dishonesty. they accepted that ms lin’s plagiarism arose not out of a lack of academic integrity but rather out of a fundamental misunderstanding of the rules of attribution in academic publications. the stakeholders also accepted that ms lin did not act dishonestly when she filed the first affidavit without disclosing the plagiarism allegations: at [41].14 the court agreed that ms lin’s plagiarism did not appear to have involved dishonesty. ms lin did not attempt to conceal the fact that she had referred to the other author’s work given that she had cited his article in the article’s footnotes. ms lin also promptly wrote a letter of apology to the other author, who accepted the apology in full and considered the matter closed. in writing the article, ms lin paraphrased various ideas that she seen in other articles, cited those articles, and synthesised those ideas into an essay about the topic. while this may have been acceptable for a university assignment, it was not acceptable for an academic article. ms lin completely misunderstood what was required in an academic publication, but did not intend to use the ideas of others and pass them off as her own: at [42]–[44].15 the court also accepted that ms lin’s filing of the first affidavit was not a dishonest attempt to conceal the plagiarism incident. at the time the first affidavit was filed, ms lin had limited details of the plagiarism allegation. the crucial point was that ms lin did disclose the full details of the plagiarism in a further affidavit, once smu’s investigations had been completed, and this ensured that all the material facts were made clear to the court and the stakeholders before her scheduled admission hearing: at [46].16 neither ms lin’s plagiarism nor her filing of the first affidavit indicated any defect of character rendering her unfit for admission as an advocate and solicitor: at [47].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.