supreme court of singapore
30 march 2021
case summary
crest capital asia pte ltd and others v oue lippo healthcare ltd (formerly known as international healthway corporation ltd) and another and other matters [2021] sgca 25
civil appeal nos 113, 132 and 135 of 2020 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice of the court of appeal steven chong):
outcome: court of appeal partially allows ca 113/2020 as against the fourth and fifth appellants, finding that they are not liable because the knowledge of the errant agent cannot be attributed to them. coa dismisses ca 113/2020 as against the first to third appellants, together with cas 132 and 135/2020.
pertinent and significant points of the judgment:

when different companies authorise the same agent to enter into contracts with third parties, this does not automatically mean that such companies would be similarly liable in non-contractual causes of action for the acts and omissions of their agent. it remains necessary to undertake a separate factual inquiry as to whether the agent’s knowledge, acts and omissions can be attributed to these companies. importantly, the inquiry should be separately conducted with respect to each company as each company’s knowledge of, and/or complicity in, the agent’s acts and omissions is not necessarily the same (at [3]).
actual knowledge of the unlawfulness of the means deployed is not a requirement for the tort of unlawful means conspiracy (at [128]). 
parties who are found liable in different causes of action may nevertheless be found jointly and severally liable if their separate wrongs resulted in the same indivisible loss (at [177]).

background to the appeals
1 the three appeals featured the same two respondents. the first respondent (“ihc”) was a singapore-incorporated company listed on the singapore exchange (“sgx”)’s catalist board. ihc wholly owned the second respondent (“ihc medical re”). 
2 in ca 113/2020, the first appellant (“crest capital”) was a fund administration company and the holding company of the second appellant (“crest catalyst”), a fund management company. the third to fifth appellants (“efiii”, “vmf3” and “vmiii”) were three such funds administered and managed by crest capital and crest catalyst (collectively, the “crest entities”). in ca 132/2020, the appellant (“ms lim”) was a former officer of ihc. in ca 135/2020, the appellant (“mr fan”) was a co-founder and substantial shareholder of ihc. 
3 in early april 2015, mr andrew aathar (“mr aathar”), the other co-founder of ihc and substantial shareholder of the same, noticed an unusual sale pattern in respect of ihc’s shares and considered that there was a high probability of a short-selling attack. mr aathar contacted mr glendon tan (“mr tan”), crest capital’s representative, to arrange for a facility of $20m for ihc’s use against the possible attack. mr aathar suggested that the crest entities use the money disbursed under the facility to buy ihc’s shares directly as security.
4 in june 2015, the crest entities and ihc medical re entered into an agreement by which a credit facility of $11m (“geelong facility”) was made available to ihc medical re with efiii and vmf3 as lenders.
5 on 30 july 2015, the crest entities and ihc entered into an agreement by which a credit facility of $20m (“standby facility”) was made available to ihc with efiii, vmf3 and vmiii as lenders. the standby facility superseded an earlier facility (“original facility”), which was executed on 21 july 2015 but backdated to 16 april 2015. the original facility was identical to the standby facility, save that in the latter vmf3 replaced another entity as lender. the board paper presented to ihc’s board for the approval of the original facility, which was prepared by ms lim and vetted by mr fan, stated that the original facility was for “general working capital” and omitted any mention of any pledge of the ihc shares to be purchased from the funds  of ihc’s shares. 
6 the repayment of sums due under the standby facility and the geelong facility was secured by, amongst other securities, charges granted by ihc over its shares in ihc medical re and two other subsidiaries (“charged shares”).
7 between 16 april and 24 august 2015, efiii made 14 drawdowns, amounting to around $17m, to purchase ihc shares on the open market. between june and july 2015, ihc paid the crest entities about $700,000 in standby fees under the standby facility.
8 in september 2015, sgx issued an announcement advising caution in dealing with ihc shares as it appeared that connected parties were trading ihc shares amongst themselves. ihc’s share price plummeted as a result. subsequent to sgx’s announcement, the crest entities demanded repayment of sums due under both the standby facility and geelong facility. specifically, the crest entities asserted that drawdowns were made under the standby facility, which ihc initially disputed. 
9 in december 2015, ihc made a payment of $3.8m to the crest entities, which the crest entities applied towards the standby facility. ihc disputed this, claiming that the payment was intended for the geelong facility. ihc further stated that unless the crest entities rectified this payment, it would not be making any further repayment toward the geelong facility.
10 the crest entities eventually appointed receivers over the charged shares in april 2016, thereby gaining control over ihc medical re, which in turn owned properties in australia through its subsidiaries (“australian properties”). after the crest entities appointed receivers over the charged shares, the australian properties were placed in receivership by senior mortgagees and eventually sold in august 2016.
11 it was eventually established that the standby facility was in contravention of the prohibition against shares buyback under s 76a(1a) of the companies act (cap 50, 2006 rev ed) and therefore void. the result was that ihc did not incur any contractual liability under the standby facility.
12 ihc commenced the suit below, seeking to hold the crest entities, mr fan, mr aathar and ms lim jointly and severally liable for the losses it sustained as a result of entering into the standby facility. 
the decision below
13 the judge found that the purpose of the standby facility was to purchase ihc shares, and that the 14 drawdowns made by efiii were in fact drawdowns under the standby facility. 
14 in relation to mr fan, the judge found that he breached his fiduciary duties to ihc in failing to disclose that funds had already been drawn down from the standby facility to acquire ihc shares, and misleading ihc’s board as to the true purpose of the standby facility. the judge also found that mr fan was liable in unlawful means conspiracy, for conspiring with the crest entities to cause ihc to enter into and draw down on the standby facility to purchase its own shares.
15 in relation to ms lim, the judge was not satisfied that ms lim breached her fiduciary duties to ihc or was liable in unlawful means conspiracy. however, the judge found that ms lim breached her duty of due skill, care and diligence, for failing to make further enquiries regarding the drawdowns.
16 in relation to the crest entities, the judge found that mr tan had actual knowledge of the prohibition against shares buyback. the judge also found that mr tan was an agent for each and every one of them, and his knowledge could be attributed to each and every one of them on that basis. the judge thus found the crest entities liable to ihc in dishonest assistance of mr fan’s breach of fiduciary duties, as well as unlawful means conspiracy. 
17 the judge found mr fan, ms lim and the crest entities jointly and severally liable for the sums paid by ihc towards the standby faclity (ie, $700,000 paid in june and july 2015 and $3.8m paid in december 2015) (“standby sums”). the judge further found mr fan and the crest entities jointly and severally liable for the interest which would not have accrued on the geelong facility if the standby sums had been applied towards the geelong facility, and the loss which could have been avoided had the geelong facility been satisfied before its maturity date (“losses in default of the geelong facility”).the losses in default of the geelong facility included the losses arising from the forced sale of the australian properties.
18 the appellants in the three appeals sought to reverse the whole of the judge’s decision. the issues that arose for the court of appeal’s determination include: (a) whether mr tan had actual knowledge of the statutory prohibition against share buyback, and actual knowledge that ihc’s purchase of its own shares was in contravention of this prohibition; (b) whether mr tan’s knowledge could be attributed to all or only some of the crest entities; (c) whether mr fan was in breach of his fiduciary duties; (d) whether ms lim was in breach of her duty to take reasonable care; (e) whether the heads of claim awarded by the judge were correct.
the court of appeal’s decision 
19 the court affirmed the judge’s finding that mr tan had actual knowledge of the existence and contravention of the prohibition against share buyback. the court also affirmed the judge’s finding that mr tan’s knowledge could be attributed to crest capital, crest catalyst and efiii. mr tan negotiated the standby facility and the purchase of ihc shares as agent for crest capital, and later drew down on the standby facility to purchase ihc shares for efiii. further, crest capital and crest catalyst worked together to manage efiii, vmf3 and vmiii. therefore, crest capital, crest catalyst and efiii were liable in dishonest assistance and unlawful means conspiracy as they had the requisite state of mind (at [86] – [98], [109] – [110]).
20 however, the court reversed the judge’s finding that mr tan’s knowledge could be attributed to vmf3 and vmiii. vmf3 and vmiii did not know that the standby facility would be used to purchase ihc shares. to that extent, vmf3 and vmiii could not be said to have authorised the drawdowns under the standby facility for that purpose, and mr tan’s knowledge could not be attributed to them. therefore, vmf3 and vmiii were not liable in dishonest assistance and unlawful means conspiracy as they did not have the requisite state of mind (at [111] – [115], [122]).
21 the court affirmed the judge’s holding that actual knowledge of the unlawfulness of the means deployed was not a requirement for the tort of unlawful means conspiracy. the essence of unlawful means conspiracy was the intention to injure, and this element also served as the valve that limits excessive liability (at [128]).
22 the court affirmed the judge’s finding that mr fan breached his fiduciary duties to ihc. he knew of the true purpose of the standby facility and the drawdowns thereunder prior to his vetting of the board paper. his omission to inform ihc’s board of the real purpose of the standby facility and of the drawdowns, which were meant to benefit him and mr aathar, amounted to a clear breach of his fiduciary duties (at [147]).
23 the court affirmed the judge’s finding that ms lim breached her duty of due skill, care and diligence. she knew that drawdowns were made but concealed from her, for an unknown purpose and without proper documentation. in the circumstances, her failure to make further enquiries in relation to these irregularities amounted to negligence (at [157] – [158]).
24 the court affirmed the judge’s finding that ms lim could be held jointly and severally liable with mr fan and the crest entities for the standby sums, even though she was found liable in a different cause of action. several wrongdoers may nonetheless be held jointly and severally liable if their separate wrongs resulted in the same indivisible loss (at [177] – [184]).
25 the court affirmed the heads of claim as awarded by the judge. specific to the loss arising from the forced sale of the australian properties, while such loss could be legally treated as ihc medical re’s loss and not ihc’s loss, this question was better left to the bifurcated hearing on quantum (at [203] – [202]).
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.