supreme court of singapore
26 march 2021
case summary
public prosecutor v chua wen hao and another appeal [2021] sghc 70
magistrate’s appeals nos 9018 of 2020/01 and 9018 of 2020/02
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the high court (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):
outcome: high court dismisses prosecution’s appeal and allows accused’s cross-appeal, substituting accused’s conviction and sentence on a charge under s 182 of the penal code with a conviction on an amended charge under s 177 of the penal code and a $2,500 fine.
pertinent and significant points of the decision:

to prove an offence under s 182 of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed), the prosecution must show that: (a) the accused person gave information to a public servant; (b) such information was false; (c) the accused person knew or believed that such information was false; and (d) the accused person intended thereby to cause, or knew it to be likely that he or she would thereby cause, the public servant to: (i) use his or her lawful powers to the injury or annoyance of another person; or (ii) do something which he or she ought not to do if the true state of facts were known to him or her; or (iii) omit to do something which he or she ought not to omit if the true state of facts were known to him or her: at [19].


the making of a false statement or the furnishing of false information is a necessary but insufficient predicate to constitute the offence under s 182 of the penal code. at the core of this offence lies the exercise by a public servant of lawful powers that ought not to have been exercised, or (as the case may be) the omission by a public servant to exercise lawful powers that ought to have been exercised, if the false information had not been provided to him or her: at [20]. 


the principles which pertain to whether the threshold for imposing a custodial sentence has been crossed for the offence under s 182 of the penal code apply with equal force to the offence under s 177 of the penal code. if appreciable harm may be caused by the offence, a custodial term should, as a starting point, be imposed. however, other relevant sentencing considerations should then be taken into account to determine: (a) whether the starting point should be departed from; and (b) what the appropriate quantum of fine and/or length of imprisonment should be: at [37].

background facts
1 these were cross-appeals by the prosecution and the accused person (“mr chua”) against the ten-day short detention order (“the sdo sentence”) imposed by the district judge (“the district judge”) in respect of a charge under s 182 of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) (“penal code”) as it stood prior to the amendments effected by the criminal law reform act 2019 (act 15 of 2019) (“the criminal law reform act 2019”) of giving false information to a public servant, with intent to cause the public servant to do something which he ought not to do if the true state of facts were known to him. 
2 the investigation officer named in the charge (“the io”) had asked mr chua whether he knew a male subject (“b1”), who was mr chua’s friend and direct supervisor in the navy. b1 had set fire to some towels belonging to a hotel (“the hotel”) at which mr chua had, for a brief period, occupied a room (“the room”). mr chua stated falsely that he did not know b1 and had not allowed him to enter the room. because the parties took different positions as to whether, as stated in the statement of facts, the io had informed mr chua that b1 had set fire to the hotel’s towels, a newton hearing was held to resolve this factual dispute, which went towards determining whether mr chua’s plea of guilt to the charge could be accepted. at the end of the newton hearing, the district judge found that before recording a statement from mr chua, the io had in fact informed mr chua that b1 had set fire to the hotel’s towels, and that such conduct constituted a serious offence. the district judge therefore accepted mr chua’s plea of guilt. he convicted mr chua of the offence under s 182 of the penal code as it stood prior to the amendments effected by the criminal law reform act 2019 (“s 182” for short) and imposed the sdo sentence on him. 
3 in its appeal, the prosecution sought an imprisonment term of at least two weeks. in contrast, in his cross-appeal, mr chua submitted that the sdo sentence should be set aside in favour of either a conditional discharge or a fine. he also contended that in any event, the s 182 charge that had been preferred against him was defective because he had not known at the material time that the false information he had provided was likely to cause the io to do something which he ought not to do if the true state of facts were known to him, namely, to investigate the identity of b1. as a finding in mr chua’s favour on this point would affect the legality of his conviction, notwithstanding that s 375 of the criminal procedure code (cap 68, 2012 rev ed) (“cpc”) would ordinarily have foreclosed mr chua from challenging his conviction given his plea of guilt, the court, pursuant to its inherent powers, examined whether the offence under s 182 of the penal code had been made out.
the decision on conviction
4 the court held that to prove a s 182 offence, the prosecution had to show that: (a) the accused person gave information to a public servant; (b) such information was false; (c) the accused person knew or believed that such information was false; and (d) the accused person intended thereby to cause, or knew it to be likely that he or she would thereby cause, the public servant to: (i) use his or her lawful powers to the injury or annoyance of another person; or (ii) do something which he or she ought not to do if the true state of facts were known to him or her; or (iii) omit to do something which he or she ought not to omit if the true state of facts were known to him or her: at [19].
5 having regard to the three alternative scenarios in which the fourth limb of s 182 could be satisfied, the court held that it was evident that s 182 was not concerned with simply any false statement made to a public servant, nor with simply any effect caused by a false statement made to a public servant. rather, it was concerned with the situation where a public servant abused, misused or improperly withheld the use of his or her lawful powers as a result of a false statement made to him or her. the making of a false statement or the furnishing of false information was a necessary but insufficient predicate to constitute the offence under s 182. at the core of this offence lay the exercise by a public servant of lawful powers that ought not to have been exercised, or (as the case might be) the omission by a public servant to exercise lawful powers that ought to have been exercised, if the false information had not been provided to him or her. there was a normative element in this because s 182 was designed to safeguard members of the public from the improper exercise of lawful powers by a public servant, or (as the case might be) the improper omission by a public servant to exercise such powers, as a result of false information provided to him or her, rather than to protect a public servant from the inefficient exercise of his or her lawful powers. the latter connoted a public servant doing things that would not or might not have had to be done, as opposed to things that ought not to have been done. this distinction between the misuse and the inefficient use of lawful powers by a public servant as a consequence of false information provided to him or her was consistent with the gradation of offences that was reflected in chapter x of the penal code (which dealt with offences involving contempt of the lawful authority of public servants) and that seemed to exist for the very purpose of giving effect to this distinction. a mere wastage of public resources arising from a public servant’s exercise of lawful powers that he or she would not or might not have had to exercise if the true state of facts had been known to him or her would not suffice to satisfy the misuse of powers/breach of duties element of a s 182 charge, although it might well be a consideration relevant to sentence: at [20], [21] and [23].
6 on the facts of the present case, the court found it evident that the s 182 charge against mr chua could not be made out. although the police might not have had to conduct investigations into b1’s identity for as long a period as they did if mr chua had not provided the false information, there was no question that the police were exercising their lawful powers properly in carrying out such investigations. there was no misuse of these powers, and in any event, the police would have had to investigate the setting of fire to the hotel’s towels even if mr chua had not provided any false information: at [21].
7 the court outlined the above concerns to the parties at the first hearing of these appeals, and directed: (a) the prosecution to reconsider its position in relation to mr chua’s conviction on the s 182 charge; and (b) the parties to confer thereafter and apprise the court of their respective positions in the light of the prosecution’s reconsideration of the matter. the prosecution subsequently agreed that the offence under s 182 of the penal code was not made out, and proposed to proceed instead on an amended charge under s 177 of the penal code as it stood prior to the amendments effected by the criminal law reform act 2019 (“s 177” for short) of furnishing false information to a public servant without more. mr chua intimated that he would not object to this and would not offer a defence to the amended charge. after some initial reservations by mr chua as to: (a) whether, as stated in the amended charge, he had falsely denied knowing b1 and allowing b1 to enter the room despite being “legally bound” to furnish information on the identity of b1; and (b) whether he had known, as the district judge found at the end of the newton hearing, that b1 had set fire to the hotel’s towels and that such conduct constituted a serious offence, mr chua pleaded guilty to the amended charge at the second hearing of these appeals. accordingly, the court set aside mr chua’s conviction on the original charge under s 182 of the penal code as well as the sdo sentence imposed for that charge, and convicted mr chua of the amended charge under s 177 of the penal code: at [24], [25], [27] and [28].   
the decision on sentence
8 on the question of sentence, the court found it clear, in the circumstances of this case, that deterrence was the dominant sentencing consideration as: (a) the offence under s 177 of the penal code could not be said to be trivial; and (b) mr chua had not demonstrated such a strong propensity for reform that could displace the need for deterrence: at [33]. 
9 the court also found it clear in the circumstances that, contrary to what the defence submitted, it was not appropriate to order a conditional discharge. there was nothing that could fairly be described as exceptional either about mr chua or the nature of his offence. mr chua had not shown demonstrably good character; and unlike the offences concerned in kalaiarasi d/o marimuthu innasimuthu v public prosecutor [2012] 2 slr 774, which the defence relied on and where a conditional discharge for a 12-month period was ordered, mr chua’s offence was, by its nature, simply not one that could be said to be the result of inadvertent oversight: at [34] and [36].
10 the relevant sentencing options were therefore either a fine or a term of imprisonment or both. the court held that for the purposes of determining whether the threshold for imposing a custodial term had been crossed, the principles which pertained to sentencing for the offence under s 182 of the penal code applied with equal force to the offence under s 177 of the penal code. if appreciable harm might be caused by the offence, a custodial term should, as a starting point, be imposed. however, other relevant sentencing factors should then be taken into account to determine: (a) whether the starting point should be departed from; and (b) what the appropriate quantum of fine and/or length of imprisonment should be: at [37].
11 applying these principles, the court was satisfied that the threshold for imposing a custodial sentence had not been crossed for the following reasons. first, although some harm was occasioned by mr chua’s offence, in that the police might not have had to spend as many man-hours attempting to establish b1’s identity as they did if mr chua had not provided the false information, the harm occasioned was not of a high degree as the police’s investigative inquiries could not be said to be a complete waste of time and public resources. second, the offence was not premeditated or planned: mr chua had decided, plainly on the spur of the moment and quite impulsively, to lie when he was confronted with the io’s presence shortly after b1 had left the room, and faced with the prospect of exposing b1 to potentially serious criminal sanctions. third, mr chua’s culpability was, on the whole, low, in so far as he had lied to shield his friend, as opposed to himself, from investigation. fourth, mr chua was untraced and a first-time offender: at [46].
12 given the confluence of the above considerations, and having regard to the principle of proportionality, the court was satisfied that a fine of a suitable quantum would have a sufficient and effective deterrent effect, and sentenced mr chua to a fine of $2,500 for the amended charge under s 177 of the penal code. the prosecution’s appeal was therefore dismissed and the defence’s cross-appeal allowed: at [47], [48], [53] and [55].
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.