supreme court of singapore



5 march 2021



case summary




cimb bank berhad v world fuel services (singapore) pte ltd and another

appeal



[2021] sgca 19





civil appeal nos 107 and 130 of 2020 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice of the appellate

division woo bih li):





outcome: coa dismisses the appeal and upholds the high court’s

decision to dismiss claims made by a bank as a legal assignee under a deed

of debenture.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment:



· the authenticity of a document may be put in issue even if there is no

allegation of forgery of the signatures on the document (at    [43]).




· where the authenticity of a document is in issue, its original should

generally be properly adduced through a witness of the party relying on it

(at [46]).




· if the authenticity of a document is put in issue because the

authenticity of the signatures therein is disputed, these issues would

overlap. a party who has the burden of proving the authenticity of a

document has to first produce primary or secondary evidence thereof.

thereafter, it also has to prove that the document is what it purports to

be, which would include proving the authenticity of the signatures if

authenticity is in dispute (at [54]).




· a party may rely on indirect or circumstantial evidence to establish the

authenticity of a document even where direct evidence would have been

available (at [61]).



background to the appeal



1 ca 107/2020 arose out of a decision of the high court judge (“judge”)

dismissing the claims of the appellant, cimb bank berhad (“cimb”) in hc/s

184/2018, on the ground that the authenticity of a deed of debenture (“the

debenture”), which formed the basis of its claims, was not established. ca

130/2020 was cimb’s appeal against the judge’s costs order.




2 the respondent, world fuel services (singapore) pte ltd (“wfs”) was a

bunker trader and purchased marine fuel from panoil. panoil was cimb’s

customer and took banking facilities from it. 11 of these sale transactions

between wfs and panoil were the subject of cimb’s claims (the “subject

transactions”).




3 cimb’s case was that panoil had executed the debenture in favour of cimb

over all goods and/or receivables and documents representing goods financed

by cimb as security. in respect of the subject transactions, panoil issued

invoices to wfs (“invoices”). in or around august 2017, panoil faced

financial difficulties. cimb gave notice to wfs by way of a notice of

assignment dated 29 august 2017 (the “noa”) that panoil had assigned all

its rights, title, interest and benefit under the invoices to cimb. cimb

then demanded payment from wfs of the sums under the invoices including

late payment interest. when wfs did not make payment, cimb commenced hc/s

184/2018 based on its rights under the debenture as the legal assignee. wfs

disputed the authenticity of the debenture and also claimed a right of

set-off against the invoices.




4 cimb’s case was that the contracts governing the subject transactions

were (a) panoil’s sales confirmations (“panoil’s sales confirmations”),

which incorporated panoil’s terms and conditions for sales of marine fuel

(“panoil’s terms and conditions”); and (b) the corresponding invoices

issued by panoil (collectively, the “sales contracts”). clause 8.2 of

panoil’s terms and conditions precluded the right of set-off (“clause

8.2”).




5 wfs’ case was that the subject transactions were instead governed by

three contracts entered into between wfs and panoil in 2016 and 2017 (the

“umbrella contracts”). in addition, panoil and wfs had entered into an

offset agreement providing for the mutual setting off of certain payable

sums (the “2014 offset agreement”). under the 2014 offset agreement and the

umbrella contracts, wfs was entitled to set off the sums due under the

invoices to panoil.




6 cimb argued that the umbrella contracts did not apply to the subject

transactions, and that the terms of the 2014 offset agreement did not apply

to or were not incorporated into the sales contracts. in any event, any

right of set-off which arose under the umbrella contracts and/or the 2014

offset agreement had been superseded by clause 8.2.




7 wfs claimed that in exercise of its rights under the 2014 offset

agreement, it had issued eight offset notices and that by virtue of these

notices, it had set off the entire sum due to panoil under the invoices.




8 the judge dismissed cimb’s claim on the ground that it failed to prove

the authenticity of the debenture. the judge however went on to consider

the other issues in contention and found in favour of cimb in respect of

those issues. in particular, the judge found that panoil’s sales

confirmations governed the subject transactions and the umbrella contracts

did not. the judge did not find it necessary to make a finding as to

whether the 2014 offset arrangement governed the subject transactions as

clause 8.2 superseded any right of set-off that would have arisen under the

2014 offset agreement as well as the umbrella contracts.




9 the issues that arose for determination in the appeal were whether cimb

had proven the authenticity of the debenture and whether wfs was entitled

to a contractual or equitable right of set-off.



the decision of the court 



10 the authenticity of a document may be put in issue in various ways. the

court found that wfs had put the authenticity of the debenture in issue.

although the non-admissions in the defence were general and did not

specifically mention that the execution of the debenture was not admitted,

this did not mean that wfs had accepted the existence of the debenture such

that the authenticity of the debenture was not in issue. by issuing two

notices of non-admission, in particular the second notice of non-admission,

wfs had made it clear to cimb that it was disputing the authenticity of the

debenture. it was not necessary for wfs to plead that the signatures on the

debenture were forged. it was open to wfs to plead forgery if it had a

basis for doing so or it could simply put cimb to strict proof of the

execution of the debenture (at [36],    [39], [42] and [43]).




11 since authenticity was in issue, the original of the debenture should

have been adduced through one of cimb’s witnesses instead of being produced

by cimb’s counsel during cross-examination of a witness for wfs. however,

the omission was not fatal in this case. wfs had inspected the original

copy although wfs did not admit its authenticity after inspection. the

original was eventually marked in court without objection. at that time,

wfs’ counsel did not argue that the original should have been introduced

through one of cimb’s witnesses. also, in closing submissions before the

judge, no such objection was raised by wfs. furthermore, it was not alleged

at the trial, or in the appeal, that the form and contents of the original

were not the same as the copy exhibited in the affidavit of

evidence-in-chief of cimb’s witness ms khoo or the copy found in cimb’s

core bundle of documents for the trial. accordingly, the original had been

adduced in evidence by cimb (at [46] and    [47]).




12 cimb’s argument that it had discharged its burden of proof on

authenticity by simply producing the original document in court arose from

a misinterpretation of the evidence act (cap 97, 1997 rev ed) (“ea”). after

primary or secondary evidence of a document is produced, the authenticity

of the document still has to be established. cimb’s further argument that

the authenticity of a document and the authenticity of signatures therein

were two distinct issues was also incorrect. the authenticity of a document

could be put in issue because the authenticity of the signatures

was disputed. in such a case, they would not be two distinct issues. a

party who has the burden of proving the authenticity of a document first

has to produce primary or secondary evidence thereof, ie, the

alleged original or a copy, within the provisions of the ea. thereafter, it

also has to prove that the document is what it purports to be. this would

include proving the authenticity of the signatures if authenticity was in

dispute (at [50], [52] and [54]).




13 section 69 of the ea did not provide that the authenticity of the

document could be established only by direct evidence, ie, by the

signatories themselves or by a witness to the signatories. a party could

rely on indirect or circumstantial evidence to establish authenticity even

where direct evidence would have been available. although cimb did not call

the two panoil officers who had allegedly witnessed panoil’s common seal

being affixed to the debenture, the circumstantial evidence to establish

the authenticity of the debenture was overwhelming (at    [56], [61]–[66]).




14 section 75 of the ea provided that the court had the power to compare

signatures on a disputed document with other signatures admitted or proved

to the satisfaction of the court to have been made by the signatories, but

the court was not obliged to do so. there was insufficient basis in this

case to say that the judge had erred in declining to exercise the power

under s 75 of the ea (at [67]–[69]).




15 on the set-off issue, the court found that wfs was entitled to rely on

the 2014 offset agreement for a right of set-off. the court found that wfs

had intended the 2014 offset agreement to apply to the subject

transactions. assuming that each sales confirmation from panoil was the

applicable contract document for each of the sales by panoil to wfs, the

2014 offset agreement would nevertheless not have been superseded by clause

8.2. the 2014 offset agreement was a short one-page document covering one

substantive issue, ie, the right of set-off; whereas clause 8.2

was part of a pre-printed set of general terms and was merely one

provision in a set of terms canvassing multiple issues. panoil’s sales

confirmations were pre-printed documents unilaterally issued by panoil.

conversely, the 2014 offset agreement was signed by both parties. wfs’

right of set-off under the 2014 offset agreement took precedence over

clause 8.2. it was unnecessary to consider the question of the application

of the umbrella contracts to the subject transactions or wfs’ claim to an

equitable set-off (at [85]–[89] and [93]

).




16 ca 130/2020 was cimb’s appeal on costs if its appeal were dismissed.

cimb had assumed that that if its appeal were dismissed, it would be for

the same reason relied upon by the judge. as the appeal was dismissed for a

different reason, cimb no longer had a basis to complain about the costs

order below (at [95] and [96]). the court

therefore dismissed the appeals.








this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.