supreme court of singapore
3 march 2021
case summary
nicky tan ng kuang (the duly appointed joint and several liquidator of sembawang engineers and constructors pte ltd (in compulsory liquidation)) and others v metax eco solutions pte ltd [2021] sgca 16

civil appeal no 146 of 2019
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice judith prakash):
outcome: coa dismisses the liquidators’ appeal against the decision of the high court judge (“the judge”) as parties had settled their disputes prior to the appeal, thereby rendering the appeal moot.
pertinent and significant points of the judgment

the court of appeal affirms the long established legal position that the court will not answer hypothetical questions or opine on an academic point merely because a party to the proceedings would like the court to set down the law on the point (at [85]).
the court of appeal finds that in proceeding to conclude a settlement and thereafter allowing the appeal to continue as if the issue was still live rather than apprising the court of the true state of affairs, the parties chose to deliberately mislead the court. in so doing, both counsel and the liquidators were patently in serious breach of their duties to the court (at [85]).

 
background facts 
1 the appellants are the joint and several liquidators (“the liquidators”) of sembawang engineers and constructors pte ltd (in compulsory liquidation) (“sec”). sec is a singapore-incorporated private limited company which was placed in compulsory liquidation on 7 august 2017. the respondent is metax eco solutions pte ltd (“metax”), a subcontractor in the construction industry. 
2 the dispute arose out of a contract between sec and metax for metax to supply goods to sec. in 2012, sec commenced hc/s 965/2012 (“suit 965”) against metax claiming damages for the wrongful repudiation of the contract. metax denied the claim and counterclaimed against sec. however, before the oral closing submissions for suit 965 took place, sec was wound up. subsequently, metax filed a proof of debt with the liquidators. 
3 on 4 january 2019, the liquidators filed an ex parte application (“sum 79”) for directions on whether, should the liquidators decide to continue legal proceedings against a defendant (which were commenced before sec was wound up), and the defendant ultimately succeeds in the legal proceedings, the defendant would be entitled to be paid all of its costs from the beginning of the legal proceedings in priority to the other general expenses of the liquidation. metax was granted leave by the judge to intervene in sum 79.
4 on 6 may 2019, the judge held that in the situation set out above, the successful defendant would be entitled to be paid its entire costs from the beginning of the legal proceedings in priority to the other general expenses of the liquidation.
 
events leading up to the hearing of the appeal
5 dissatisfied with the judge’s decision, the liquidators filed an appeal against it on 26 july 2019 in ca/ca 146/2019 (“ca 146”). metax’s solicitors subsequently indicated that metax would not be filing any documents in the appeal. thus, only the liquidators filed the relevant papers in the appeal. given that the liquidators were asking the court to depart from the legal position adopted by leading commonwealth jurisdictions, a five-judge coram of the court of appeal was convened to hear and decide the matter.
6 subsequently, it became clear that metax and sec had settled their disputes prior to the hearing of the appeal. the main terms of the settlement were as follows:
 a. sec would pay $13,000 to metax upon its written acceptance of the terms of settlement. this sum represented the costs that had been awarded to metax in relation to sum 79. 
 b. suit 965 was to be held in abeyance pending the outcome of ca 146 and parties would not take any further steps to prosecute or defend suit 965. 
 c. metax would not participate in ca 146 and the court would only be informed if necessary that the non-participation arose from the settlement of suit 965.
 d. the outcome of ca 146 would not bind suit 956. 
 e. within three days after the court of appeal handed down its decision for ca 146, sec would discontinue its claim against metax in suit 965 and metax would discontinue its counterclaim against sec in suit 965 and withdraw its proof of debt.
7 following the hearing of the appeal, the liquidators’ and metax’s respective counsel submitted explanatory letters to the court. counsel for the liquidators contended, among other things, that there was no intention to mislead the court and that the liquidators had proceeded with the appeal solely to clarify an important and novel point of law that impacted on the way they carried out their duties. the liquidators’ counsel also apologised for any concern and inconvenience that had been occasioned by the conduct of ca 146. counsel for metax stated that it had been in metax’s interests to reach a settlement with the liquidators in respect of suit 965. furthermore, metax’s counsel highlighted that it did not make any misrepresentations to or mislead the court, but had sought to assist the court in every possible way. metax’s counsel further apologised if there were any areas in which they could have done better.
 
the court of appeal's decision
8 the court of appeal (“the court”) found that the settlement reached between the parties meant that the issue of what costs the liquidators would have to pay if they pursued suit 965 on behalf of sec was completely moot. no matter the outcome of the appeal, suit 965 was a dead letter. the appeal had been rendered academic and should have been immediately discontinued. instead the appeal proceeded thus engaging the court in a consideration of hypothetical issues and arguments, thereby wasting the court’s time: at [29]. 
9 the court of appeal further found that it was plain, from the correspondence and the settlement terms, that all parties and their counsel deliberately entered into an agreement to suppress the disclosure of relevant information to the court unless the court should specifically ask for the same. although the counsel were aware that a settlement of suit 965 would render ca 146 academic, the parties tried to negotiate a formula which would allow the liquidators to proceed with ca 146 without the involvement of metax: at [56].
10 the court observed that the long established legal position in singapore was that the court will not answer hypothetical questions or opine on an academic point merely because a party to the proceedings would like the court to set down the law on the point: at [85]. 
11 the court reasoned that in proceeding to conclude a settlement and thereafter allowing the appeal to continue as if the issue was still live rather than apprising the court of the true state of affairs, the parties chose to deliberately mislead the court. it was evident that there had been extensive negotiations to prevail upon metax to say as little as possible, and that the true position would only be revealed if the court persisted in its queries. by such conduct, both counsel and the liquidators were patently in serious breach of their duties to the court. for all the apologies given, neither the liquidators nor the counsel acknowledged how greatly they had failed in their duty to the court as officers of the court: at [60], [85]–[86].
12 in relation to the counsel, the court found it shocking that none of the counsel who appeared seemed to appreciate the gravity of their breach of duties. the apologies proffered to the court appeared to be pro forma without any real acknowledgement of the default: at [87].
13 in relation to the liquidators, the court observed that they took the opportunity granted by the settlement negotiations to contrive a situation in which their submissions would be proffered to the court without having to contend directly with those of a controverting party. they further insisted on terms in the settlement agreement that ensured the true position was concealed. such conduct was reprehensible. the court further noted that the appointment of a liquidator in a compulsory winding up was always subject to the court’s discretion. the court in exercising its discretion on any proposed appointment was entitled to take into account the misconduct in previous cases of the nominated liquidator: at [88]–[89].
14 finally, the court observed that since ca 146 was moot and there had been no live issue for the court to address, the dismissal of ca 146 had no implications for the legal issues put before the court: at [90]. 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.