supreme court of singapore
29 january 2021
 
case summary
cbb v law society of singapore [2021] sgca 6

civil appeal no 43 of 2020
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
outcome: court of appeal allows complainant’s appeal in favour of an order compelling the law society of singapore to seek the court’s leave to advance a complaint but dismisses appeal against the judge’s decision below not to award any costs.
facts
1          the appellant filed a complaint with the law society of singapore (“the respondent”) against a lawyer (“mr l”) concerning the latter’s conduct in assisting the appellant’s mother with certain legal work. this work was the subject of mental capacity proceedings that culminated in the court of appeal’s decision in re bkr [2015] 4 slr 81 (“re bkr”).
2          portions of the appellant’s complaint pertained to matters that arose more than six years prior to the date of the complaint. given that s 85(4a) of the legal profession act (cap 161, 2009 rev ed) (“lpa”) imposed a six-year time bar, the council of the law society (“the council”) would have had to seek leave of the court under s 85(4c) of the lpa to advance the matter any further. however, the council declined to seek the requisite leave of the court. the council provided two reasons for its decision, namely that: (a) the complaint was made by the appellant in his personal capacity and not as a client; and (b) the events in the complaint were time-barred.
the decision
3          in the decision below, the learned judge held that the council acted irrationally. with regard to the council’s first stated reason, the fact that the complaint had been made by the applicant in his personal capacity was not a relevant consideration when deciding whether leave should be sought under s 85(4c) of the lpa given that the disciplinary framework served to maintain the standards and reputation of the legal profession. with regard to the council’s second stated reason, the judge held that the council could not take the delay alone into account and neglect other relevant considerations such as the merits of the complaint. accordingly, the judge quashed the council’s decision and issued a mandatory order directing the council to reconsider its decision. 
4          the appellant appealed against the judge’s decision in respect of the mandatory order to reconsider, seeking instead a mandatory order compelling the council to apply for leave pursuant to s 85(4c) of the lpa. moreover, the appellant appealed against the judge’s decision not to make any order as to costs.
decision on appeal   
5          the court held that it would not generally mandate a decision-maker to perform a duty in a particular manner. this was predicated on the separation of powers and the principle that the court, in judicial review proceedings, reviewed an administrator’s decision-making process and not the merits of a decision. thus, in most cases, even where there appeared to be only one way of performing a duty the court would normally direct the decision-maker to perform its duty and not to perform it in a particular way. this principle applied with greater force in cases where the error in the decision-making process pertained to the exercise of a discretion rather than a performance of a duty: at [7].
6          however, the court held that there were rare and exceptional cases where the performance of a duty shaded into its performance in a particular way or by a particular course of action. this occurred when a public duty necessarily entailed performance of a particular act and where all the circumstances pointed towards the exercise of a power in a certain way. in determining whether the performance of a public duty would result in only one reasonable outcome, the applicant who sought such a mandatory order had to establish, on balance, that the following factors operated in its favour: (a) the availability in the public domain of objective evidence relevant to the merits of the decision; (b) the institutional competence of the court; (c) the decision-maker’s conduct; (d) the absence of other reasons militating against the grant of a mandatory order; and (e) the absence of alternative ways of carrying out that duty, having regard to the relevant considerations that factor into the decision as may be construed from the statute: at [19]–[24].
7          in support of this approach, the court reasoned that there were duties inherent within discretionary powers. moreover, the court held that directing a decision-maker to undertake specific actions would, in exceptional cases, further the purpose of sound public administration and ensure that executive action was exercised in a manner consistent with parliamentary intention. the court also noted that certain cases required effective and expeditious remedies. given that decision-makers did not normally bear a duty to furnish reasons, the court’s power to issue a mandatory order in specific terms would deter a decision-maker who was unwilling to act but who also insulated his non-performance of a duty by refusing to disclose reasons. courts and judges had to be mindful of the need for sound public administration in determining the appropriate remedy to be granted where any of the grounds of judicial review had been established: at [25]–[26].
8          having considered the facts set out in the judge’s decision below, the court was satisfied that this was an exceptional case that justified the grant of a mandatory order requiring the council to apply to the court for leave. first, facts pertaining to mr l’s involvement in setting up the trust and effecting the transfer of assets had been set out in re bkr and there was thus ample basis for assessing the potential gravity of the conduct. second, the discipline of lawyers was a matter of public interest within the aegis, expertise and control of the court. third, the council had not reconsidered the appellant’s complaint or acted upon the judge’s order almost eleven months after the judge’s decision below. fourth, no other reasons militating against the grant of a mandatory order were put to the court. fifth, based on a proper construction of s 85(4c)(a) of the lpa, the court could not identify any other alternative way in which the council might carry out its duty: at [27]–[32].
9          in respect of the fifth factor, the court held that although s 85(4c)(a) of the lpa granted the council a measure of flexibility in determining whether a disciplinary complaint ought to be advanced, the court was satisfied, based on the purpose of the provision, that this discretion had to be exercised with due regard to certain factors. these factors were: (a) the length of the delay; (b) the prejudice occasioned by the delay; (c) the reasons for the delay; and (d) the prospects of the complaint: at [33].
10        on the facts, the court accepted that most of mr l’s impugned conduct had taken place approximately seven years before the appellant filed the complaint. however, no prejudice was occasioned by the delay. it was not suggested that any difficulties of obtaining evidence would arise, especially given the litigation that had already taken place. as for the explanation, the court accepted that there were good reasons for the delay. these included the fact that: (a) the matter had been disposed of on 19 may 2015; (b) the deputies acting on behalf of the appellant’s mother on 11 october 2017 requested the appellant to defer his complaints against mr l because this could complicate the proceedings required to recover her assets; and (c) the aforementioned proceedings only concluded on 30 january 2018. as to the prospects of the complaint, the court was satisfied that the appellant’s complaint was not bound to fail, having regard to certain facts disclosed in re bkr. accordingly, the court allowed the appeal in respect of the mandatory order and directed the council to make the requisite application pursuant to s 85(4c)(a) of the lpa: at [34]–[37].
11        on the second issue, the court affirmed the principle that the court would not generally make adverse costs orders against public bodies performing a public regulatory function except in cases where the public body demonstrated bad faith or gross dereliction. there was no evidence that the council’s conduct was shown to be the result of bad faith or gross dereliction. furthermore, the judge below had also considered that the appellant did not succeed in many of his arguments. the issue of costs was a fact-sensitive inquiry and the court saw no reason to disturb the judge’s discretion. this part of the appellant’s appeal was therefore dismissed. however, the court’s reasoning with respect to costs below did not apply to costs of the appeal because it was wrong of the council not to have acted at all following the judge’s order: at [38]–[40].
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.