supreme court of singapore
30 october 2020
case summary
uzn v uzm [2020] sgca 109
civil appeal no 2 of 2020
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by debbie ong j):
outcome: coa allows appeal against the division of matrimonial assets on the basis that an adverse inference drawn against a spouse was not adequately given effect to. 
pertinent and significant points of the judgment:

the court of appeal discusses the two approaches for giving effect to an adverse inference drawn due to the non-disclosure of matrimonial assets (at [28]–[39]).
the court of appeal provides guidance on the distinction between non-disclosure of matrimonial assets, wrongful dissipation, and innocent dissipation (at [60]–[68]).

 
1 the parties were married for 16 years before they were divorced in 2016. in the ancillary matters proceedings, the high court judge (“the judge”) valued the pool of matrimonial assets at $1,908,602.19. applying the structured approach for the division of matrimonial assets in anj v ank [2015] 4 slr 1043 (“the anj structured approach”), the judge assessed the average ratio to be 68:32 in favour of the husband. 
2 the wife argued that the husband’s earnings from his law practice from 2010 to 2016, of at least $4,549,959, ought to be included in the pool of matrimonial assets. in response, the husband tendered a report prepared by an accounting expert (“the expert”), to account for his expenditure of his earnings. on the expert’s analysis, the husband should have had a cash balance of $428,678.36 as at 31 december 2016. the husband’s disclosed cash balance, however, was less than $500.
3 in assessing the expert’s analysis, the judge rejected various items of expenditure that the expert had included as part of the husband’s expenditure. the judge drew an adverse inference against the husband for failure to make full and frank disclosure of his bank balances. to give effect to this adverse inference, the judge adjusted the average ratio by increasing it by 8% in favour of the wife. as a result, the wife was awarded 40% of the matrimonial assets, amounting to $763,440.88.
4 the wife appealed on the basis that the judge erred in the manner in which he gave effect to the adverse inference, and further that the extent to which the husband had failed to disclose his assets was greater than that found by the judge.
the court of appeal's decision
drawing an adverse inference for non-disclosure of matrimonial assets
5 a detailed analysis of the parties’ earnings and expenditure for the purposes of determining the extent of the matrimonial assets should not be taken as a matter of course, as parties in a functioning marriage may not always keep fastidious records, and may genuinely be unable to recount past transactions. however, there was sufficient basis for a closer look at the husband’s cash flow in the present case as the husband’s disclosed cash balance did not gel with his significant income from his law practice. an adverse inference was rightly drawn against the husband on account of this analysis: at [20], [25] and [26].
6 there were generally two approaches to give effect to an adverse inference against the non-disclosing party: 
 a. first, the court may make a finding on the value of the undisclosed assets based on the available evidence and include that value in the matrimonial pool (“the quantification approach”).
 b. second, the court may order a higher proportion of the known assets to be given to the other party (“the uplift approach”): at [28].
7 giving effect to the drawing of an adverse inference enabled the court to better reflect the true extent of the matrimonial pool, and this could be achieved under either the quantification approach or the uplift approach. the approach to be adopted was a matter of judgment in each individual case. on appeal, the exercise of discretion by the judge at first instance would not easily be disturbed unless the effect of the judge’s decision was out of proportion to any reasonable estimate of the value of the undisclosed assets: at [29] and [35].
8 in the present case, the findings made by the judge quantified the husband’s undisclosed assets at about $1,620,090.24. it would then have been appropriate for the judge to adopt the quantification approach, rather than the uplift approach. the judge’s decision to give the wife an uplift of 8% under the uplift approach resulted in her receiving almost a third less than she would have if he had added the $1,620,090.24 to the matrimonial pool under the quantification approach: at [38] and [39].
the true extent of the husband’s undisclosed assets
9 the true extent of the husband’s undisclosed assets was greater than that found by the judge. besides the items of expenditure rejected by the judge, which the husband was bound by as he had not filed any appeal, there were also further items of expenditure which should also have been rejected: these were sums disbursed under a loan which were double-counted by the judge, and a sum used to pay the husband’s legal costs for the divorce, which should not be taken out of the matrimonial pool: at [41], [45], [50], [53] and [55].
10 in all, the husband failed to disclose some $1,826,092.20 in assets. applying the quantification approach, this sum should be added to the matrimonial pool, resulting in a total value of $3,734,694.39. the wife was entitled to $1,195,102.20, being 32% of all the matrimonial assets: at [56(f)]–[58].
legal principles for assessing the true value of the matrimonial pool
11 the court of appeal made some brief comments on the broader scope of the court’s duty to ensure that the matrimonial pool reflected the full extent of the material gains of the marital partnership: at [59].
 a. where a party has expended substantial sums when divorce is imminent, these sums may be added into the matrimonial pool (the “tnl dicta”, following the decision in tnl v tnk and another appeal and another matter [2017] 1 slr 609 at [24]). this is because the consent of the other party was not obtained, rather than a suspicion of concealment or wrongful dissipation: at [62]–[64].
 b. if a large sum of money is withdrawn by a party in the early years of the marriage, it is usually hard to believe that there is concealment or wrongful dissipation. however, such withdrawals may be relevant in determining the parties’ direct and indirect contributions under the anj structured approach. on the other hand, if there are sums expended nearer to the time when divorce is imminent, it may be possible to view such acts as wrongful dissipation carried out with the intention of depleting the matrimonial pool, depending on the facts of the particular case: at [67] and [68].
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.