supreme court of singapore
23 october 2020
case summary
btn and another v btp and another [2020] sgca 105
civil appeal no 178 of 2019 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judith prakash ja):
outcome: the court of appeal dismisses the appeal by the appellants. the appellants fail in their argument that the arbitral award should be set aside on the ground of public policy because the arbitral tribunal before which the appellants appeared held that they were prevented by the doctrine of res judicata from litigating on a component of their defence. there is no allegation that the appellants were prevented from presenting their cases on the res judicata issue before the tribunal. the tribunal did precisely what was intended by disposing of the parties’ agreed issues, which included the issue of the res judicata effect of the relevant prior decision. a tribunal’s decision on the res judicata effect of a prior decision is not a decision on jurisdiction, but a decision on admissibility, and the courts cannot review it on its merits.
background to the appeal
1 the respondents, btp and btq, are individuals. formerly, they were substantial shareholders in two holding companies of which the second appellant, bto, was one. bto and the other holding company owned a group of companies (“the group”). bto is an online travel agency and has its registered office in malaysia. btn, the first appellant, is a company incorporated in mauritius.
2 in september 2012, the respondents and other beneficial owners of the group entered into a share purchase agreement (“the spa”) with btn whereunder they agreed to sell all their interests in the group, including their shares in bto, to btn. the spa provided that after the sale, the respondents were to be employed by bto, and the employment of the respondents was to be governed by contracts referred to as promoter employment agreements (“peas”). the spa also included an arbitration clause requiring arbitration under the rules of the singapore international arbitration centre (“siac rules”), and an exclusive jurisdiction clause in favour of the mauritian courts. the jurisdiction clause was expressly stated to be “subject to” the arbitration clause. 
3 the peas were entered into in due course between the relevant respondent on the one hand and, on the other, by bto as the employer and btn as the confirming party. the peas contained arbitration clauses that required disputes to be resolved by arbitration under the siac rules and exclusive jurisdiction clauses in favour of the malaysian courts.
4 the spa and peas contained materially identical provisions in relation to the termination of the respondents’ employment with bto. in essence, termination could be either without cause or with cause. if the dismissals of the respondents were without cause, then the respondents would be entitled to a sum of money known as “earn outs”, but if the dismissals were with cause, then the respondents would not be entitled to the earn outs. 
5 in january 2014, bto dismissed the respondents, citing various grounds of with cause termination. the respondents took the view that they had been wrongfully dismissed and decided to take action against bto by invoking the remedies available under malaysian law. in august 2014, the dispute was referred to the malaysian industrial court (“mic”) for resolution, and the respondents and bto were copied in the relevant referral letters. for several months, the mic fixed and adjourned the hearings of the cases multiple times due to the non-attendance of bto, and numerous notices of the proceedings were sent to bto at its registered office. in the end, the hearings in respect of the respondents’ cases proceeded in bto’s absence. awards against bto were issued by the mic in april 2015 and july 2015 in favour of the respondents (“the mic awards”). the mic found that their dismissals had been “without just cause or excuse” and awarded them damages calculated based on the respondents’ monthly salary. 
6 subsequently, the respondents commenced non-compliance proceedings against bto for its failure to make payment of the compensation awarded by the mic. the non-compliance proceedings were duly fixed for hearing, and notice of the same was served on bto. according to bto, it was only the day before the non-compliance hearing that its manager at its registered office notified the relevant senior personnel of the hearing notices. bto appeared at the non-compliance hearing and did not dispute that all the notices previously mentioned were validly served on it. following the hearings, bto made full payment to the respondents as ordered by the mic. 
7 in july 2016, the respondents commenced arbitration proceedings against both appellants, claiming that they had been dismissed without cause. in the arbitration proceedings, the appellants took the position that the dismissals were with cause. the respondents responded that, among other things, issues dealing with the cause of termination were res judicata by virtue of the mic awards (the “res judicata issue”) and so could not be decided by the arbitral tribunal (“the tribunal”). the tribunal fixed a date on which to receive evidence and hear legal arguments. the evidentiary hearing could not proceed on the allotted dates but the parties agreed that if they could reach agreement on the legal issues to be determined, the hearing could proceed on these alone. the parties were thereafter able to agree on the legal issues, and the tribunal issued procedural order no 5 setting out the agreed list of issues. the list included the question of whether the findings of the mic were binding on the tribunal. this in turn included (a) the question of whether the decisions of the mic were binding as a matter of construction of the spa and peas, and as a matter of res judicata; and (b) a determination of all issues necessary to resolve whether the findings of the mic were binding on both appellants, including whether any preclusive effect extended to btn as well as to bto. the hearing took place over three days in december 2017. all parties were legally represented.
8 the tribunal released the partial arbitral award on 30 april 2018 (“partial award”). it held that the dispute resolution clause stipulating arbitration in the peas was mandatory in nature but was conditional on one party actually invoking it. in the present case, neither btn nor bto had sought to stay or restrain the proceedings or to commence arbitration. the tribunal held that both the appellants were prevented from arguing that the respondents were terminated with cause under the spa and peas by the doctrine of issue estoppel under singapore law, as the question of whether this had occurred was essentially the same as the issue that the mic had already determined. 
9 in june 2018, the appellants filed an application before the high court, seeking, among other things, a setting aside of the partial award with respect to both appellants, or in the alternative, a setting aside of the partial award with respect to btn only. the judge dismissed the appellants’ application in full. 
10 the appellants were dissatisfied with this decision, and argued on appeal that the partial award should be set aside. in this regard they raised the same issues that they had canvassed before the judge below: that there had been a breach of natural justice which had prejudiced them; that it would be contrary to public policy to enforce the partial award, because it had deprived them of the right to put forward their defence to the respondents’ claim and to make their own claims against the respondents; and that the tribunal failed to decide matters contemplated by and/or falling within the submission to arbitration.
the court of appeal’s decision
11 the parties had agreed to the arbitration hearing being a “non-evidentiary hearing” to resolve only legal issues, but had simultaneously tasked the tribunal to determine all issues necessary to resolve whether the findings of the mic were binding on both appellants. the tribunal’s decision was clearly within the scope of the parties’ agreement (at [45]–[46]).
12 it could not be said that bto could not reasonably have known that it should make submissions at the mic proceedings on the reasons for the respondents’ termination, given the valid service of the various notices. what went wrong regarding the mic proceedings was an internal matter for bto. there was accordingly no breach of natural justice in this regard. in any event, what was required for the setting aside of the partial award was that the breach must have been in relation to the arbitration proceedings before the tribunal (at [51]).
13 in relation to the appellants’ public policy objection, the court of appeal rejected the appellants’ argument that they were deprived of their right to defend themselves at the arbitration. it was irrelevant that the appellants alleged that they did not know of the mic proceedings, because bto’s failure to present its defence at the mic proceedings was a direct result of its own internal arrangements. the tribunal had decided that the mic’s findings were binding in respect of both the appellants, and there was no allegation that the appellants were prevented from presenting their respective cases before the tribunal. the merits of a tribunal’s decision are ordinarily irrelevant to whether its award should be set aside (at [59]). 
14 the court of appeal rejected the appellants’ argument that the respondents’ conduct in bringing the mic proceedings was in breach of the arbitration agreements in the peas, and therefore upholding the partial award would be contrary to public policy. the appellants could have commenced arbitration proceedings themselves or sought to restrain the further conduct of the mic proceedings, but they did not do so (at [63]). 
15 in so far as the appellants argued that the tribunal erred in law in its decision on the res judicata issue, such arguments were rejected (at [64]). a tribunal’s decision on the res judicata effect of a prior decision is not a decision on jurisdiction, but a decision on admissibility, and the courts cannot review it on its merits (at [71]–[73]).
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.