supreme court of singapore



17 september 2020



case summary


ilechukwu uchechukwu chukwudi v public prosecutor 

[2020] sgca 90





criminal motion no 4 of 2017




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

decision of the majority of the court of appeal comprising

sundaresh menon cj, andrew phang boon leong ja, judith prakash ja

and chao hick tin sj (delivered by chao hick tin sj):



outcome: coa by 4:1 majority sets aside its previous conviction of

ilechukwu uchechukwu chukwudi on a drug trafficking charge.






pertinent and significant points of the decision:



the court’s power to draw adverse inferences, whether from lies or

omissions, is a discretionary one based on the specific facts and all the

evidence in each case: at [151]-[156].



background to the application



1 ilechukwu uchechukwu chukwudi (“the applicant”) was charged under s 5(1)(    a) of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“mda”), with

trafficking of not less than 1,963.3g of methamphetamine found in a black

luggage (“the black luggage”) which he had brought from nigeria into

singapore and had handed over to one hamidah binte awang (“hamidah”) on 13

november 2011.




2 in 2015, at the end of a joint trial of the applicant and hamidah, the

high court judge (the “judge”) acquitted the applicant. the prosecution

appealed against the judge’s decision acquitting the applicant. the court

of appeal reversed the acquittal and convicted the applicant on the

trafficking charge in    public prosecutor v ilechukwu uchechukwu chukwudi [2015] sgca 33

(“ca (conviction)”). critically, what tipped the scales in the

appeal were the numerous lies and omissions made by the applicant in his

statements to the central narcotics bureau (cnb), for which there did not

appear at the time to be any innocent explanation. for instance, in his

oral evidence at trial, the applicant claimed that one “kingsley”,

introduced to him by a friend of his, “izuchukwu”, had told him to pass the

black luggage to a contact in singapore.




3 following the decision in ca (conviction), when the matter was

remitted to the judge for sentencing, fresh and material evidence came to

light that the applicant suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder

(“ptsd”) with dissociative symptoms. this evidence arose from the

examination of the applicant by dr jaydip sarkar, a psychiatrist with the

institute of mental health (imh), who was slated to be the prosecution’s

witness. according to dr sarkar, the applicant’s ptsd arose as a result of

a childhood trauma in his hometown in wukari, nigeria, when the applicant

was nearly killed and had witnessed the killing of others.




4 in dr sarkar’s opinion, the applicant’s ptsd symptoms were triggered

after he was informed that he was facing the death penalty associated with

the trafficking charge, and this condition might have resulted in an

“overestimation of threat to his life which could have prompted him to

utter unsophisticated and blatant falsehoods in order to save his life”.

for this reason, the court of appeal in 2017 granted the criminal motion

filed by the applicant to reopen its earlier conviction. no finding was

made by the court of appeal as to dr sarkar’s assessment of the applicant.

the matter was remitted to the judge for him to receive further expert

evidence on ptsd based on the terms of reference issued by the court of

appeal.




5 the judge made three main findings in    public prosecutor v hamidah binte awang and another [2019] sghc

161 (“hc (remitted)”) in the light of the expert evidence adduced

at the remitted hearing:




(a) the applicant suffered from ptsd as a child after witnessing the wukari

massacre when he was about five years old and continued to suffer from it

until some indefinite time before he arrived in singapore on 13 november

2011.




(b) however, the applicant was not suffering from ptsd after his arrest on

14 november 2011 when the various statements were taken. this was because

neither the arrest nor the applicant being informed that the charge

attracted the death penalty was sufficient to constitute a traumatic event.




(c) the applicant suffered from various post-traumatic stress symptoms

(“ptss”) during the statement-taking process.



the majority’s decision




6 the central question in this application is whether the decision in    ca (conviction) is in fact demonstrably wrong. this

entailed an examination of the following questions (at    [50] and [52]):




(a) was the judge correct to find that the applicant suffered from ptsd

during his childhood?




(b) was the judge correct to find that the applicant did not experience a

traumatic event in 2011 for the purpose of criterion a of the dsm-5 ptsd

criteria?




(c) was the judge correct to find that the applicant suffered from ptss in

2011 and if so, how were they connected to his lies and omissions?




7 on the evidence it was clear that the applicant suffered from ptsd during

his childhood as a result of the wukari incident: at [61]-    [65].




8 the majority of the court of appeal also found that the applicant’s

arrest and his being informed of the death penalty associated with the

trafficking charge each constituted a traumatic event in the circumstances.

this is attributable to the sensitisation effect, which all the expert

witnesses agreed was operating on the applicant. this sensitisation effect

essentially meant that since the applicant was found to have suffered from

ptsd as a child, he was at a higher risk of developing ptsd subsequently.

the finding that the two events were traumatic is also borne out by the

applicant’s testimony given at the first-instance trial in 2014, long

before any issue relating to the applicant’s ptsd was raised: at    [82]-[124].




9 the majority agreed with the judge that the applicant suffered from

various ptss during the recording of his statements to the cnb: at    [126]-[134].




10 contrary to the judge’s findings, there was a credible connection

between the applicant’s condition in 2011 and his lies and omissions in his

statements. as the majority of the expert witnesses testified, the

applicant’s condition led to an overestimation of the threat to his life

which could have prompted him to utter unsophisticated and blatant

falsehoods to save his own life. in other words, the ptss caused the

applicant to harbour irrational or illogical notions of his circumstances

including that he was in danger even though he might have been innocent.

these misconceived conceptions in turn supplied a plausible explanation for

his lies because, conceivably, the applicant was eager to save his own life

and foolishly thought that by telling lies this objective could be

achieved. while an ordinary person without similar psychiatric ailments

like the applicant may also experience fear under the same circumstances,

the present case is fundamentally different because the applicant’s

response was not simply a case of difference in the degree of fear

experienced but rested on an epistemically distinct basis – that is, a

gross misapprehension of the situation brought about by his history of ptsd

and his ptss: at [138]-[146].




11 in respect of the decision in ca (conviction), the court of

appeal had drawn adverse inferences against the applicant as a result of

his numerous lies and omissions, for which there was no innocent

explanation. in the light of the fresh evidence and findings above, it

cannot be said with any reasonable degree of confidence that the

applicant’s lies and omissions were only attributable to a realisation of

his guilt. it follows that no adverse inference can now be drawn against

the applicant in this regard. consequently, it is also no longer

appropriate to rely on the applicant’s lies and omissions to impugn his

creditworthiness: at [157]-[168].




12 since no weight can be given to the applicant’s lies and omissions, the

majority found that on the remaining evidence, the applicant had rebutted

the presumption of possession under s 18(1) of the mda on the balance of

probabilities. as the judge had found in his first-instance acquittal

decision, the totality of the circumstances, including the applicant’s

conduct and demeanour around the time of the alleged offence, was more

consistent with a lack of knowledge on his part of the drugs in the black

luggage: at [171]-[181].




13 therefore, the decision in ca (conviction) is demonstrably

wrong in the light of the fresh evidence, which arose out of exceptional

circumstances, ie, an opinion proffered by the prosecution’s

psychiatrist instead of the applicant’s own appointed psychiatrist. the

court of appeal’s conviction in 2015 is hereby set aside. 

accordingly, the majority affirmed the order of the high court acquitting

the applicant of the trafficking charge: at [182]-    [184].




decision of the minority of the court of appeal (delivered by tay yong

kwang ja):





14 the central question was whether the motive for the applicant’s lies was

his realisation of guilt and fear of the truth: at [232].

proceeding on the basis of the judge’s findings of ptss at the various

points in time, the many lies told by the applicant in his statements were

found to be lucas lies (ie, lies which could be used as

corroborative evidence of guilt). these pointed clearly and cogently to his

guilty mind concerning the drugs concealed in the black luggage: at    [230] and [273].




15 in the statement recorded from him approximately two hours after his

arrest (“the first statement”), the applicant consciously and deliberately

lied when he claimed that he had only brought one luggage, namely, a laptop

bag into singapore and further lied in court to explain away the lie in the

first statement: at [248]-[254]. the

judge rightly did not accept the applicant’s submissions on how his

“intense psychological distress” caused him to lie. if he had been

frightened and shocked when his room was raided suddenly by the officers,

he could have explained at the trial that he had lied in the first

statement because he had been so overwhelmed by the officers’ actions that

they evoked in his mind the wukari incident: at [251] and    [252]. it was implausible, given his allegedly naïve trust

in izuchukwu and kingsley, that his first thoughts after arrest would have

been that there was something illegal about the black luggage and therefore

that the only safe course was for him to lie and deny any connection with

it when questioned by law enforcement officers: at [253]

.the edifice of lies was such that the experts’ evidence, to the limited

extent they addressed the link between intense psychological distress and

lying on the facts of the present case, should be viewed with

circumspection. this distress did not provide an innocent explanation for

the lie in the first statement: at [256].




16 in the cautioned statement recorded from the applicant (“the cautioned

statement”), the applicant claimed he had not given “anything to anybody”,

among other lies: at [257]. the reasons the applicant gave

for the lies were rejected. for example, contrary to dr sarkar’s assertion

that the applicant had been focused on protecting himself, the applicant

had told dr christopher cheok that when the charge was read to him, he made

up his mind to tell the truth and he only changed his mind thereafter.

further, if he had indeed thought that the death penalty was a certainty as

he claimed, it was unclear how lying could have provided any protection. he

had also been warned before the statement was recorded that it might be

better for him to mention any facts in his defence: at    [260] and [261]. despite his claim that

he had been confused, it was clear the applicant had been able to

distinguish between facts that would have linked him to the black luggage

and facts which were quite innocuous: at [263]. the

persistent efforts to say nothing about the black luggage or that he had

met someone in singapore were very telling and pointed clearly to a guilty

mind which was acutely aware of the drugs in the black luggage: at    [262].




17 the applicant also told several untruths in the statements recorded from

him some seven to ten days after his arrest (“the long statements”), which

were again calculated to avoid any reference to the black luggage or

individuals that would have connected him to it: at [264].

the various ptss suffered by the applicant did not provide an explanation

for the lies and omissions: at [269] and    [270]. even if the applicant did not trust the

investigating officer, it was illogical for this to have resulted in his

persistent efforts to dissociate himself from the black luggage especially

if he did not know at the time that the charge was linked to it and after

he had been cautioned that he should not hold back anything in stating his

defence. it was not sheer coincidence that the individuals the applicant

falsely denied knowing were also subsequently arrested for drug offences

involving methamphetamine: at [270] and    [271]. it would have been evident by the time of the long

statements that he was in the hands of law enforcement officers and not in

a situation or place which remotely resembled the circumstances of the

wukari massacre. any fear or anxiety he felt then would have been

reasonably expected of anyone in remand for a serious offence: at    [272].




18 even if the lies and omissions were not corroborative evidence of the

applicant’s guilt, he would not have rebutted the presumption in s 18(1)

mda. the applicant told many deliberate lies on highly material issues on

separate occasions and continued to lie both in the 2014 trial and the

remitted hearing, despite the lack of evidence that he was suffering from

ptsd or ptss during the two hearings. as such, any ptsd or ptss would not

have provided a remotely satisfactory answer to the edifice of lies

constructed by the applicant: at [273]. his defence was in

the final analysis a highly unlikely account from a totally unreliable and

untruthful source: at [274]. the defence was a case of

hypothesis built upon hypothesis built upon hypothesis in order to try to

explain away a continuous and consistent stream of very focused lies: at    [275]. the prosecution’s case had been proved beyond

reasonable doubt and the application to set aside the applicant’s

conviction should be dismissed: at [276].





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.