supreme court of singapore
21 august 2020
case summary
ca/crf 2/2019
public prosecutor v bong sim swan, suzanna [2020] sgca 82
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by tay yong kwang ja):
outcome: court of appeal affirms the principle that the sentencing court must consider the totality of circumstances of a charged offence to assess the level of culpability and the victim’s suffering
pertinent and significant points of the judgment

the sentencing court must consider all the circumstances of a case in order to assess it realistically 
where there was a sustained pattern of abuse, which included proved prior offences for which the offender was not charged, it would be wrong for a sentencing judge to disregard that and view the charge in isolation as it would give a false assessment of the suffering of the victim and of the offender’s culpability

background
1 the respondent, bong sim swan suzanna (“the respondent”), was the employer of a domestic helper from myanmar (“the victim”). in 2013, the victim came to singapore and began working for the respondent. after four months, the respondent began to scold her and this escalated into incidents of violence with the respondent regularly hitting, slapping or pulling the victim’s hair. the respondent would often punch the victim in the eye or face and particularly on the left side. about ten months after arriving in singapore, the victim’s eyesight began to deteriorate. when she told the respondent, the respondent told her not to “bullshit”.
2 on 17 may 2015, the victim applied medicated oil from a glass bottle on her head. the respondent complained about the smell and used the glass bottle to hit the victim’s face somewhere below her left eye several times. the victim felt pain and there was swelling and a bruise on the left side of her face. the next day, the victim called the police. 
3 the victim later realised that her eyesight had deteriorated to the point where she could not walk around by herself. she was diagnosed with several injuries (“the injuries”) that required significant follow-up care. at the time of the first consultation, she was found to be legally blind in her left eye. she recovered after six eye operations but still suffered from permanent visual loss in her left eye.
4 the respondent was tried and convicted in the state courts on one charge of voluntarily causing hurt to a domestic worker in her employment based on the incident on 17 may 2015. the trial judge (“the trial judge”) sentenced her to 20 months’ imprisonment and ordered her to pay compensation of $38,540.40.
5 on appeal, the high court judge (“the judge”) affirmed the conviction but reduced the imprisonment term to eight months and the compensation sum to $1,000. the judge was of the view that the evidence did not show that the respondent’s acts on 17 may 2015 caused the victim’s injuries. the injuries might have been caused by previous instances of abuse but the respondent was not charged for those previous instances. the only injury that could be said to have been caused by the respondent on 17 may 2015 was the bruise. the judge also held that an offender’s knowledge of a victim’s vulnerability could only be taken into consideration if it could be established independently of any potentially criminal conduct for which the offender was not charged.
6 the prosecution referred three questions to the court of appeal: 
 (a) question 1: in establishing a causal link between an act and a subsequent injury (in this case, a worsening of the retinal detachment), does the prosecution bear the burden of eliminating other possibilities of how such injury could be sustained even if these were not raised in evidence?
 (b) question 2: in applying the sentencing framework for a maid abuse offence punishable under s 323 read with s 73 of the penal code set out in tay wee kiat and another v public prosecutor and another appeal [2018] 4 slr 1315, should the court take into account psychological harm that arises from a sustained pattern of abuse, ie, multiple incidents of the offender causing hurt to the domestic maid, even though separate charges were not preferred for the other incidents of abuse?
 (c) question 3: does the fact that an offender knew, or was aware of the likelihood, of a victim’s pre-existing injury or particular vulnerability when he assaulted the victim on that particular part of the body constitute an aggravating factor in sentencing?
the court’s decision
7 the court declined to answer question 1 as it was not a question of law. the judge made a number of findings on causation of the injuries that departed from the conclusions made by the trial judge but the criminal reference procedure was not intended for the court to review findings of fact. question 1 also did not arise from the case before the judge as he did not propound the principle stated in the question. in any event, the answer to any question as to what the prosecution must prove would almost invariably be answered by the principle that the prosecution must prove the case that it is asserting in court beyond reasonable doubt (at [48] to [51]).
8 the court answered question 2 as it raised a normative issue of the correct application of the principles that a sentencing judge had to take into account all circumstances relevant to the commission of the offence and that a person could not be punished for an offence that he has not been charged with. it arose out of the case before the judge as he was of the view that the respondent’s awareness of the victim’s worsening eyesight had to be established independently of any potentially criminal conduct for which the respondent was not charged (at [53] and [54]).
9 the court reframed question 3:
 (a) question 3: does the fact that an offender knew, or was aware of the likelihood, of a victim’s pre-existing injury or particular vulnerability that arose from previous proved incidents which could have been but were not made the subject of separate charges, when he assaulted the victim on that particular part of the body constitute an aggravating factor in sentencing?
 the court answered the reframed question as it raised issues similar to question 2 and the issue was whether the basis or source of knowledge could affect the extent of the respondent’s culpability (at [56] to [58]).
10 there were two problems that arose from excluding considerations of conduct that might amount to uncharged prior offences. first, background facts were relevant and admissible at the conviction stage and it was contradictory to state that the court had to then disregard those facts at the sentencing stage. second, such an approach would create a perverse situation that would benefit serial offenders. the sentencing court had to be able to consider all the circumstances of a case in order to assess it realistically (at [70] to [73]).
11 facts with a sufficient nexus to the charge could be considered. there was no reason to limit it to proximity of time and space as psychological harm was often cumulative and built up over time. concomitant with psychological harm suffered by a victim was the level of culpability exhibited by an offender. if there had been a sustained pattern of abuse, it would be wrong for a sentencing judge to disregard that fact and view the charge in isolation because that would give a false assessment of the suffering of the victim and of the offender’s culpability. question 2 should be answered in the affirmative because in assessing the degree of psychological harm, the court could and should have regard to the background facts notwithstanding that they might also amount to uncharged offences (at [77] to [79]).
12 in the present case, the respondent’s acts on 17 may 2015 took place in context of a sustained pattern of abuse. though there were good times, any intermittent good times enjoyed had to be measured against the persistent bad times endured. it would not be an exaggeration to think that a person in the victim’s situation would be on constant tenterhooks, not knowing when the employer would have another outburst and over what matter and anticipating that in those outbursts, the employer was likely to attack her at the same vulnerable area of her face. the court found it hard to accept that such a victim would not be experiencing a high degree of despondency and anxiety most of the days and therefore suffering a high level of psychological harm (at [80] to [83]).
13 the respondent’s culpability would have been significantly higher had the judge considered that she was aware of the victim’s particular vulnerability because she was the very person who had been inflicting those earlier injuries to that area of the victim’s face, than if her awareness had come solely from what the victim told her. it was an error of law to disregard the respondent’s previous abusive acts against the victim for the purpose of sentencing with the result that her culpability was not pegged at the correct level (at [88] to [89]).
14 the court directed the parties to submit on the consequential orders in respect of the imprisonment term and the compensation order ordered by the judge, in the light of the answers to the questions posed (at [91]).
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.