supreme court of singapore
22 july 2020
case summary
aero-gate pte ltd v engen marine engineering pte ltd and another appeal [2020] sgca 73 

civil appeals nos 172 & 173 of 2018

 

decision of the court of appeal (delivered judge of appeal judith prakash):
outcome: the court of appeal dismisses the appeal on liability of the two contemnors, but allows the appeal against the sentences passed on the two contemnors.
pertinent and significant points of the judgment
coa emphasised that given the quasi-criminal nature of committal proceedings, it was necessary for the appellant to be clear about the case that it was pursuing against the contemnors so that the latter could fairly respond to the accusations. this was consistent with the fundamental rule of justice that a person being called upon to answer a charge has to first know the precise case that he has to meet and should be accorded ample opportunity to refute the allegations. the appellant must be held to its case as framed in its closing submissions: at [42] and [44].
 
introduction 
1 the appellant, aero-gate pte ltd, formerly did business with engen marine engineering pte ltd (“the company”). in 2012, the appellant started legal proceedings against the company and obtained a mareva injunction restraining the disposal of its assets. the appellant alleged that mdm selvarajoo mageswari (“mdm mageswari”) and mr ramasamy tanabalan (“mr tanabalan”) (collectively “the contemnors”), who were running the company at all material times had acted in contempt of court by disobeying the injunction. mdm mageswari was the sole director of the company and managed its administrative and financial matters, whereas mr tanabalan, while not holding office, managed the operations behind the business. 
2 in the committal proceedings stemming from allegations of breach of the mareva injunction binding the company, the high court judge (“the judge”) found mdm mageswari to be in contempt of court on three of the seven charges brought against her, and mr tanabalan to be in contempt on one of the seven charges brought against him. the judge sentenced mdm mageswari to pay a fine of $25,000 (one month’s imprisonment in default) and mr tanabalan to pay a fine of $50,000 (two months’ imprisonment in default).
3 in the current appeals against the decisions in relation to mdm mageswari (ca 172/2018) and mr tanabalan (ca 73/2018), the appellant argued that (a) mdm mageswari and mr tanabalan ought each to have been convicted on six out of the seven charges; and (b) mdm mageswari and mr tanabalan ought to have been sentenced to a term of imprisonment of at least six months for their contempt.
 
background facts
 
4 the appellant commenced legal proceedings against the company in hc/suit 373/2012 (“suit 373”) on 8 may 2012, in relation to disputes arising out of two purchase orders under which the company agreed to manufacture diesel generators for the appellant. the court of appeal (“the court”) upheld the judge’s findings in relation to the appellant’s claims. the damages payable to the appellant were subsequently assessed at $606,418.27, with interest thereon at the usual rate of 5.33% per annum from 15 august 2014 to 30 november 2015. the company was also ordered to pay the appellant a total of $53,000 in costs arising from suit 373 and the appeal. given the appellant’s unsuccessful attempts to levy execution, the appellant remained a substantial creditor of the company.
 
the judge’s findings
mdm mageswari’s liability
 
5 the judge decided that since mdm mageswari responded to the appellant’s case in the committal proceedings as framed, it would only be fair for the appellant to prove all the elements alleged against mdm mageswari. in the circumstances, mdm mageswari’s role in the company became relevant. the judge accepted mdm mageswari’s evidence that mr tanabalan was entirely responsible for the company’s business and operations and opined that the only reason he did not hold a formal appointment as a director was that he was an undischarged bankrupt. the judge found mdm mageswari liable on three charges only. 
mr tanabalan’s liability
 
6 the judge noted that even though mr tanabalan could have been held liable for the company’s contempts under o 45 r 5(1)(ii) of the rules of court (cap 332, r 5, 2014 rev ed) on the basis that he was a shadow director or general manager of the company, the appellant chose to make its case more difficult for itself than it had to be, by alleging that mr tanabalan had knowingly assisted in and/or permitted a breach of the mareva injunction and in so doing had treated mr tanabalan as a third party. the appellant therefore had to establish beyond reasonable doubt that mr tanabalan had the specific intent to impede or prejudice the due administration of justice, rather than just establish that there was intention to do an act which was in fact a breach of the injunction. the judge found mr tanabalan liable on one charge only
the appropriate sentence
 
7 the judge noted that the appellant had initially argued for a term of imprisonment of six years before moderating this to three years in its final submissions. the judge observed that this was unsupported by any binding authority and was clearly excessive, and was meant to intimidate and oppress the contemnors.
8 noting that mr tanabalan’s single breach was more serious than mdm mageswari’s three breaches as it went to the root purpose of the mareva injunction, the judge ordered mdm mageswari to pay a $25,000 fine and mr tanabalan to pay a $50,000 fine. both fines have since been paid. the judge also ordered the contemnors to be jointly and severally liable to pay the appellant 50% of its reasonable costs and disbursements on a standard basis, as the appellant only succeeded in four out of the 14 charges.
 
the court of appeal’s decision
general points
 
9 the appellant took the position on appeal that it only needed to prove that mdm mageswari and mr tanabalan, as directors of the company, had notice of the injunction and wilfully failed to take reasonable steps to secure the company’s compliance. the court did not accept the appellant’s arguments relating to the judge’s characterisation of its case and observed that the appellant chose the way it wished to frame its contempt case against the contemnors and on appeal it was too late for the appellant to resile from that choice. the judge fairly characterised the appellant’s cases against mdm mageswari and mr tanabalan respectively in the manner that the same were mounted. it was not permissible for the appellant to say now that if it had known the judge was open to treating mr tanabalan as a shadow director it would have argued the case differently: at [37] and [38].
mdm mageswari’s liability
 
10 the court found no basis to disturb the judge’s findings of non-liability in relation to the second, fifth and sixth charges against mdm mageswari: at [57].
mr tanabalan’s liability
 
 (a) in relation to the second charge, the court held that the circumstantial evidence relied on was weak. there was no obligation on mdm mageswari to personally procure a valuation of the assets and she was entitled to rely on her husband who ran the operations to get the values. the non-disclosure of the bank accounts was wrong and the judge found her liable on that count but, in itself, that action could not support a conclusion that mdm mageswari intended to mislead the court in relation to the value of the assets: at [50].
 (b) as for the fifth charge, the court observed that it was clear from the evidence that mdm mageswari was not personally involved in the storing of the assets at the transvictory and singatac’s premises, as the appellant itself alleged during the committal hearing and also on appeal. the appellant also had not adequately addressed the judge’s alternative finding that even if mdm mageswari was involved in the movement of the assets to the transvictory and singatac premises, it was not clear how their subsequent disposal by third parties amounted to a disposal in breach of the mareva order: at [53] and [54].
 (c) as for the sixth charge, the appellant had not addressed the judge’s primary basis for his conclusion that this charge had not been proved – that the mere movement of assets subject to a mareva order did not amount to a disposal of the assets under that order. the court agreed with the judge that the mareva injunction itself did not impose a continuing obligation on the company to inform the appellant of changes in location of the assets once the first disclosure had been made: at [56].
11 the court found that the judge’s findings on liability in relation to mr tanabalan were unimpeachable: at [67].
the appeal against sentence 
 
 (a) in relation to the first charge, the appellant had not provided any convincing arguments to show why the judge erred in finding that mr tanabalan did not intend to provide misleading figures – it was clear from his cross-examination that mr tanabalan stood by his valuation of the assets, and insisted that (a) the appellant’s valuers were inexperienced in the niche industry; that (b) the appellant’s valuers were wrong in stating that some of the assets were missing core components; and that (c) the company ought to have been asked to nominate a valuer of its own. the judge was justified in saying that mr tanabalan’s inaccurate valuation was due to incompetence or optimism rather than dishonesty: at [61].
 (b) in relation to the second charge, the court observed that the judge was right to say that there was no elaboration of the charge in the appellant’s closing submissions and that on that basis it has not been sufficiently particularised. that mr tanabalan asserted in his reply submissions that he did not dissipate the moneys did not cure the appellant’s error. it was unclear what exactly the appellant was alleging under this charge: at [63].
 (c) in relation to the fourth, fifth and sixth charges, the court was of the view that the appellant had not adduced sufficient evidence in support of its case, which was essentially that mr tanabalan had deliberately placed the company’s assets at the transvictory and singatac premises knowing that doing so would expose them to risk of disposal or seizure by the landlords, and that mr tanabalan did so “to orchestrate the scheme to disobey and frustrate the mareva order”. the undisputed evidence was that the company was forced to vacate its existing premises at 13 tuas avenue 11, had trouble finding alternative storage arrangements for its assets and ended up storing these assets at the premises of mr tanabalan’s business associates or friends on the basis of “goodwill and trust”. there was simply insufficient evidence to show that mr tanabalan dealt with the assets in these premises in such a manner as to evince an intention to impede the administration of justice: at [66].
12 the court held that the sentences passed on the contemnors were too lenient and that a custodial sentence would also be too harsh. the court increased the fine payable by each contemnor by $25,000 and ordered that in default of payment within 14 days, the defaulting contemnor would be imprisoned for one month. the court doubled the fine for mdm mageswari because her non-disclosures, general nonchalant attitude to the mareva order when she was a director of the company and lack of concern to ensure that the company complied fully with the order were given insufficient weight by the court below. as for mr tanabalan, the court increased the fine by only 50% because his behaviour had already attracted a heavier penalty below and he was found liable for only one charge. the increase in the fine imposed was, in the court’s view, enough to reflect his culpability on the basis that he was sentenced as a third party rather than as a director: at [95].
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.