supreme court of singapore
16 july 2020
case summary
jwr pte ltd v edmond pereira law corp and another [2020] sgca 68
civil appeal no 141 of 2019 and summons no 23 of 2020

sundaresh menon cj, andrew phang boon leong ja and tay yong kwang ja
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by tay yong kwang ja):
outcome: coa dismisses the appellant’s application to run an entirely new case on appeal. 
pertinent and significant points of the judgment:

the court of appeal reiterates that to approach the court of appeal as if it were a second trial court would be an abuse of the appeal process (at [32]).

 
1 this was an appeal against the high court’s dismissal of the appellant’s claims in hc/s 992/2015 (“the negligence suit”).
background to the appeal
2 the respondents were the appellant’s counsel in hc/s 896/2012 (“the original suit”). the original suit was struck out by an assistant registrar. the appellant then commenced the negligence suit against the respondents, alleging that the respondents were negligent in their advice to the appellant and in their conduct of the original suit. following a trial, the high court dismissed the negligence suit in its entirety.
3 on appeal, the appellant’s new counsel indicated that it would not be dealing with the findings made by the high court. instead, it sought to rely on a single new allegation of negligence against the respondents which was not raised during the trial. the appellant applied by way of ca/sum 23/2020 (“sum 23”) to seek leave from the court of appeal to raise this new point on appeal and to amend its statement of claim to plead the new allegation.
the court of appeal’s decision
4 the appellant’s case on appeal sought to do more than merely raise an additional legal point; it sought to discard the entire basis on which its case proceeded during the trial and to begin afresh with a new allegation of negligence. if the court of appeal were to entertain the appellant’s new case, it would not have all the relevant evidence and findings of fact before it. the gaps in the appellant’s case would have been extremely prejudicial to the respondents who were told to defend a totally different case at the trial: at [30] and [31].
5 such an appeal would also be an abuse of the appeal process. the court of appeal would not be considering whether the high court was wrong in its conclusions, but would be effectively conducting a second trial: at [32].
6 for the above reasons, sum 23 was dismissed. consequently, the appeal was dismissed as well as there would be nothing for the appellant to proceed on: at [35].
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.