supreme court of singapore
16 july 2020
case summary
ong keh choo v paul huntington bernardo and another [2020] sgca 69
civil appeal no 175 of 2019 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice woo bih li):
outcome: coa dismisses property owner’s appeal against couple for unpaid option fee. held that option to purchase was terminated by mutual rescission.  


facts
1 on 7 october 2017, paul huntington bernardo (“r1”) and his wife tran hong hanh (“r2”) (collectively, “the respondents”) viewed a property at balmoral 8 (the “property”), which was being marketed by ong keh choo (the “appellant”). the respondents were led to believe that the appellant, who introduced herself as jeanette ong, was merely a real estate agent representing the property’s owner. they did not know that, in fact, she herself was the owner. 
2 the viewing of the property was conducted in the morning. at about 2.00pm that same day, the parties met for the second time. during that meeting, r1 issued a cheque in favour of “ong keh choo” for $316,000 (the “cheque”) which, according to the respondents, was passed to the appellant “for show”. at about 7.00pm, r2 met the appellant for a third time (the “third meeting”). r2 was handed a copy of an option to purchase the property (the “otp”). the otp was signed by the appellant as the property’s owner and r2 also appended her signature to acknowledge the cancellation of certain inapplicable words. 
3 later that night, r2 sent a copy of the otp to her lawyer, who advised her that its terms, ie, that 10% of the purchase price was payable as the option fee and 90% was payable upon exercise of the option, were not the conveyancing norm. there was then a discussion between r2 and the appellant via whatsapp messages as to amending these payment terms. 
4 on 8 october 2017, the respondents discovered that the appellant was the owner of the property. however, discussion on the amendment of payment terms continued. also, while r2 later indicated that she wanted to cancel the cheque, this was because she was worried that the respondents would otherwise have insufficient funds to cover their expenses.
5 later that evening, there was a flurry of messages about the cancellation of the cheque and a call between r2 and the appellant. the respondents claimed that during this call, r2 terminated the otp for misrepresentation and the appellant agreed to return the cheque. the appellant was also informed that the respondents had countermanded the cheque. in contrast, the appellant claimed that she only agreed not to bank in the cheque until the parties had settled their dispute. on 21 october 2017, the appellant sought to deposit the cheque. on 24 october 2017, she was informed by her bank that the cheque had been countermanded. 
6 on 9 march 2018, the appellant commenced suit 258 of 2018 in the high court, making separate claims for $316,000 against r1 and r2. her claim against r1 was as drawer of the cheque. her claim against r2 was for the option fee payable under the otp.   
 
background to the appeal
7 the high court judge (“the judge”) dismissed the appellant’s claim. the cheque had only been issued by r1 “for show”, ie, to show that the respondents were sincere buyers who wished to acquire the property, subject to further negotiation on price. it was not intended as consideration for the otp. as for the otp, r2’s signature was procured without her being informed as to the nature of that document. furthermore, when r2 mentioned that a payment term of the otp was unusual, the appellant replied that this had been written by “mistake”. in the judge’s view, a mistake as fundamental as the amount due on exercise of the option under the otp suggested that there was no agreement on its terms. the otp was therefore void for want of proper endorsement. 
 
decision on appeal 
8 the court of appeal found that the cheque had not been issued “for show”. the judge overlooked objective evidence such as details on the counterfoil of the respondents’ cheque book, whatsapp messages between the parties and the absence of negotiation on the price after the cheque had been issued. such evidence indicated that the cheque had been issued to secure an agreement to sell the property to them (at [28], [39]–[45]). 
9 r2 received the otp knowing the legal nature of that document. it was telling that r2 had noticed the particulars and signature of the property’s owner on the otp during the third meeting but did not query what this was about. nor did she ask about the status of the cheque. further, after receiving advice from her lawyer, r2’s concern was over the terms of the otp, not the nature of the document itself. all this suggested that she knew the cheque had been handed over to the owner in exchange for the otp. thus, even if the cheque was initially issued “for show”, this was no longer the case by the end of the third meeting (at [54]–[56], [61]).  
10 it was irrelevant that r2 had not discussed the otp’s payment terms with the appellant at the third meeting. by receiving the otp without qualification, r2 had, by conduct, accepted the terms therein (at [65], [68]). it was also noteworthy that r2’s signature was not necessary to make the otp a legally binding document (at [72]).    
11 the court did not agree that there had been a mistake in the otp which suggested a lack of an agreement as to its terms. the appellant’s explanation that there had been a mistake was merely an excuse to disguise the fact that she had tried to take advantage of r2 in requiring payment of the balance of the price upon exercise of the option. in the light of earlier findings, it was also unclear what the judge meant in saying that the otp was inchoate for want of proper endorsement (at [77]–[79]). 
12 the respondents pleaded five representations of the appellant on which they were entitled to rely on to terminate the otp unilaterally: 
 (a) the appellant had held herself out to be the agent and not the owner of the property. 
 (b) the appellant had told the respondents the cheque was “for show” only. 
 (c) the cheque would be held by the appellant and would not be given to the owner or encashed. 
 (d) as the appellant had purported to act as an agent, she led the respondents to believe by her action and conduct that it was normal practice to pay 10% of the purchase price as an option fee and the remaining 90% upon exercise of the option. 
 (e) the appellant had asked r2 to sign on the otp as the appellant had made a mistake and the signature was to acknowledge the cancellation of certain inapplicable words. 
the respondents had to establish that one or more of these false representations had been material in inducing them to part with the cheque and receive the otp without qualification (at [82]). for one reason or another, none of the representations constituted a defence for the respondents (at [91]–[97]). 
13 the respondents also relied on mutual termination as an alternative to unilateral termination. the court found that the substance of the messages exchanged between r2 and the appellant in the evening of 8 october 2017 was more consistent with r2’s claim that during the call, the appellant had agreed to terminate the otp and return the cheque (at [117]). there were also other subsequent messages between them which showed that during the call, the appellant had given r2 an option to terminate the otp which r2 accepted. in any event, the appellant did not deny the explicit assertions in r2’s messages that such an option had been given (at [122]–[126]). as the appellant had given r2 an option to terminate the otp, she could not resile from this offer once it had been accepted. the appellant could not claim the $316,000 under the cheque or the otp. the court therefore arrived at the same outcome as the judge but for a very different reason (at [125], [127]). 
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.