supreme court of singapore21 december 2023case summaryqbe insurance (singapore) pte ltd and another v relax beach co ltd [2023] sgca 45civil appeal no 3 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: the ca only granted costs on a standard basis in favour of the respondent as the discontinued appeal was not without merit and granting indemnity costs would not be appropriate. pertinent and significant points of the judgment:•  in the context of a court exercising its discretion to award costs, especially indemnity costs, the merits of the case can become especially important because they go to the heart of the question of whether the position taken was wholly without basis. more specifically, even in the context of a discontinued case, the merits may be relevant in considering the issue of costs: at [35] and [40].•  quite apart from being relevant to the issue of indemnity costs, the court may also issue its judgment commenting on the merits of a discontinued case where it would be in the public interest to ventilate legal points of general interest and significance: at [43].•  a singular case of disease occurring at the insured premises would not constitute an “outbreak”, which is a term that ordinarily contemplates the infection of more than one person on a plain and commonsensical meaning: at [54].•  it is impermissible to consider the more general statistical figures of disease in the area in determining the cause for the imposition of a closure order by a public authority because the relevant “outbreak” must have occurred “at the premises” under the language of the insurance policy: at [55] and [57].background to the appeal1 the respondent is a thai company which owns and operates a luxury hotel in phuket (“the insured premises”). the appellants are co-insurers who agreed under a policy (“the policy”) to indemnify the respondent in respect of business interruption losses suffered at the insured premises. one of the events covered by the policy under cl 87 (“the ide”) was the closure of the insured premises by an order of a public authority as a result of an outbreak of an infectious or contagious disease at the premises. pertinently, the policy also requires under condition 7 (“the notification clause”) that the insured notify the insurers of any claim that may arise and to provide particulars of the claim to succeed in being indemnified. it is not disputed between the parties that the notification clause is a condition precedent to any liability under the policy.2 on 2 april 2020, the governor of phuket noted that there was a rapid rise of covid-19 cases in the province, and thus ordered the complete closure of all types of hotels in phuket until further notice (“the closure order”). in compliance with this, the insured premises were completely closed by 7 april 2020, thus shuttering the respondent’s hotel business and this formed the basis of the respondent’s claim for business interruption losses.3 on 26 may 2020, the respondent submitted a claim notification to the first appellant under the policy (“the claim”). the first appellant replied and sought further information relating to the claim, such as whether there was any outbreak of covid-19 at the insured premises. on 27 may 2020, the respondent replied stating that there had not been any outbreak of covid-19 at the insured premises. the respondent did not provide further information on the appellants’ other queries relating to risk management procedures and the extent of hotel operations still running. following this, the first appellant wrote to the respondent on 29 may 2020 (“the 29 may 2020 letter”) to highlight that since the respondent informed there was no outbreak of covid-19 at the insured premises, it had not satisfied the criteria in the ide for coverage under the policy. the 29 may 2020 letter concluded by requesting that the respondent furnish further information to support the claim within 21 days, failing which the claim would be rejected. no further information was obtained.4 on 31 march 2021, the respondent commenced hc/os 299/2021 (“os 299”) in the general division of the high court, seeking, among other things, a declaration that the respondent has a valid claim under the policy for business interruption suffered in respect of the insured premises. notably, the respondent’s supporting affidavit stated for the very first time that one of its hotel employees, referred to in the judgment as “mr k”, had tested positive for covid-19 sometime around 26 march 2020 (just days before the closure order). the emergence of this fact is crucial to the respondent’s legal case, which was that mr k’s singular case of covid-19 on the insured premises would suffice to trigger liability under the ide.5 on 7 march 2022, the judge below delivered his decision in os 299 finding in favour of the respondent, and ordering the appellants to indemnify the respondent for the loss suffered. the appellants appealed. an application was made to transfer the appeal from the appellate division of the high court to the court of appeal in ca/oa 18/2022 (“oa 18”). the appeal was then transferred to the court of appeal as it was found that the issues in the appeal would raise points of law of public importance regarding the interpretation of insurance contracts in the context of the covid-19 pandemic. 6 the hearing of the appeal in ca/ca 3/2023 (“ca 3”) was scheduled for 16 october 2023. however, on the afternoon of 13 october 2023, the appellants filed a last-minute withdrawal of the appeal. the respondent did not object, save that there remained an unresolved issue as to the costs of ca 3 and oa 18. the parties were unable to agree on costs and have made submissions on costs. this is the key subject matter of the present judgment.decision on appeal7 whilst the main subject matter of the present judgment concerns costs, it is also appropriate to provide the court’s preliminary views on the merits of the discontinued appeal in ca 3 because this was relevant to the assessment of the respondent’s claim for costs, and also because these views bear on questions of public importance to the wider insurance industry on the interpretation of business interruption clauses in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. the long-drawn legal skirmish between the parties was widely reported in the mainstream media and had garnered significant attention in the market: at [32] to [33].8 in the context of a court exercising its discretion to award costs, and especially when considering indemnity costs, the merits of the case can become especially important because it goes to the heart of the question of whether the position taken in the proceedings was wholly without basis, thus resulting in a waste of time and resource. it may be appropriate, and indeed necessary, for the court to consider the merits of the case when deciding whether to grant indemnity costs, in so far as a complete lack of merits may indicate that an action was brought in bad faith, as a means of oppression or for other improper purposes, or that the action was speculative, hypothetical or clearly without basis, thus amounting to reasonable conduct: at [35] to [39].9 more specifically, even in the context of a discontinued case, the merits can also be relevant in considering the issue of costs, particularly where it is possible to discern the likely outcome had the matter been litigated to a conclusion: at [40] to [41].10 the court may also issue its judgment commenting on the merits of a discontinued case where it would be in the public interest to ventilate legal points of general interest and significance: at [43] to [44].11 it was appropriate in this case for the court to set out preliminary views on the merits of the discontinued appeal in ca 3 because (a) the merits are relevant to the exercise of the court’s discretion in awarding costs, especially when considering indemnity costs, and (b) the issues raised in ca 3 potentially touch on important questions of wider interests to the insurance community. while there was no disposal of the appeal on the merits, the court had the benefit of the parties’ extensive written submissions which had been carefully reviewed in preparing for the appeal: at [45].12 the court’s preliminary view on the merits is that the judge below likely erred in at least two material aspects. first, the judge likely erred in finding that there was no need for the respondent to notify the appellants of the existence of mr k’s case occurring at the insured premises in compliance with the notification clause. the notification ought to have extended to the facts said to give rise to the underlying insured risk. if the risk encompassed an outbreak of disease at the premises, it was a necessary part of any notification that the existence of mr k’s case be notified to the appellants. as this was not done, the condition precedent in the notification clause was probably not satisfied. further, contrary to the judge’s finding that the appellants’ statement in its 29 may 2020 letter amounted to a summary rejection of the claim, the letter was not a summary rejection but merely a request for further information. second, the judge may have erred in finding that mr k’s case was a proximate cause of the closure order resulting in the closure of the insured premises. it was unlikely that mr k’s singular case could be considered an “outbreak” at the insured premises under the ide so as to trigger liability because an “outbreak” likely requires infection of more than one person on a plain and commonsensical meaning. further, it was not relevant to consider the covid-19 statistical figures more generally in phuket because only the cases which occurred “at the premises” can be factored in the analysis. on this basis too, the respondent’s claim under the policy would likely have failed if the court did not change its initial views after hearing counsel: at [47] to [57].13 therefore, the appeal in ca 3 was not an unmeritorious ploy intended to delay and frustrate a valid insurance claim. it was not unreasonable to pursue the appeal such that the granting of indemnity costs would be appropriate. at best, costs should only be granted on a standard basis in favour of the respondent. the court orders that the respondent is to have the costs and disbursements in the amount proposed by the appellants: at [58] to [60].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.