supreme court of singapore6 september 2023case summary the micro tellers network ltd and others v cheng yi han and others [2023] sghc(i) 13 sic/s 5/2020-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by simon thorley ij): outcome: the singapore international commercial court dismisses the plaintiffs’ claims in negligence, dishonest assistance and conspiracy, allows the claim in breach of trust/fiduciary duties in part, and allows the claim in fraudulent misrepresentation.background1 the first plaintiff (“micro tellers”) was a company incorporated in hong kong. the second, third and fourth plaintiffs (collectively, the “regional group”) were singaporean businessmen. they were interested in cryptocurrency investments and pooled their resources for such investments.2 the first defendant, cheng yi han (“yi han”), and the second defendant, ling hui andrew (“andrew”), carried out cryptocurrency transactions using the third defendant, an entity called providence asset management (“pam”). together, these three defendants (collectively, the “initial defendants”) were initially the sole defendants in this suit. the fourth defendant, then feng (“feng”), was later joined as a defendant by amendment. following the conclusion of settlement agreements between the plaintiffs and the initial defendants, the pleadings were amended to delete the claims made against the initial defendants and to focus the claims made against feng. subsequently the court allowed an application to join the fifth defendant, lee moon young (“moon”), feng’s wife.3 feng worked as a solicitor for walkers singapore llp from 2011 to november 2018. walkers singapore llp was affiliated to an international law firm, “walkers”, which was based in the cayman islands with other affiliated offices around the world. feng married moon in may 2015.4 the plaintiffs’ claims centred around two incidents. the first incident, the “europe transaction”, occurred in april 2018. it involved a proposed trade of bitcoin (“btc”) purchased by the initial defendants with the authority of the regional group using funds supplied by the regional group. micro tellers was not involved in the europe transaction. the plan was for the btc to be sold to buyers in europe (“the buyers”) at a profit, the consideration being €5m which was to be paid in cash. however, it turned out that the banknotes supplied were forgeries.5 feng was one of several individuals, including yi han and andrew, who were involved in the planning and conduct of the europe transaction. the regional group claimed that he owed three duties (the “europe duties”) in respect of his role in the europe transaction: (a) ensuring that the btc would not be released to the buyers until payment was duly made; (b) to carry out due diligence on and engage a competent and professional security firm which would verify that payment was duly made; and (c) to procure and/or ensure the procurement of valid insurance in respect of any losses arising from the europe transaction.6 the regional group made three claims against feng:a. breach of the europe duties owed by him to the initial defendants, acting in their capacity as agents for the regional group, in his capacity as a solicitor engaged by the initial defendants;b. breach of fiduciary duties owed by him directly to the regional group;c. negligence in his role either as a solicitor, or in his personal capacity having undertaken to carry out the europe duties with reasonable skill and care.7 the second incident, the “private bank acquisition”, involved both micro tellers and the regional group. it related to the initial defendants’ use of both micro tellers’ and the regional group’s funds (the “funds”), which were placed with pam, for the purchase of a private bank. micro tellers authorised the initial defendants to use its funds for the private bank acquisition, but the regional group did not. in anticipation of the private bank acquisition, the initial defendants transferred the funds from pam’s bank account to a bank account owned by walkers professional services limited (“wps”). wps was a company which feng had set up in june 2015, and of which moon was the sole director and shareholder. the initial defendants alleged that feng had represented to them that the wps account was owned and/or controlled by walkers and the funds in the wps account would be held in escrow by walkers to the initial defendants’ order. in the event, the bank that was ultimately acquired was purchased for significantly less than the funds that had been deposited in the wps account. feng was thereafter requested to make a refund to the initial defendants but did not do so.8 micro tellers claimed that feng was liable to them for (a) fraud, (b) breach of trust and/or fiduciary duties and (c) unjust enrichment. the regional group claimed against feng for breach of trust/fiduciary duties and unjust enrichment. both sets of plaintiffs claimed that moon was liable to them for dishonest assistance in respect of feng’s breach of fiduciary duties in relation to the private bank acquisition. they also claimed that feng and moon were liable to them for conspiracy.the court’s decision 9 feng never had control over the btc and was not physically present at the europe transaction. he was never asked to carry out due diligence on or to engage a competent and professional security firm. instead, he was tasked with using his contacts in europe to identify a suitable security firm, which he did by identifying a reputable swiss banker who in turn selected the security firm for the europe transaction. lastly, he was never asked to look into the question of insurance. overall, the part played by feng in relation to the alleged europe duties was a minor one: at [97]–[100]. 10 in respect of the europe transaction, feng was not acting in his capacity as a solicitor and the role he played fell way short of the threshold for finding a fiduciary relationship. the regional group’s claim for breach of fiduciary duties with respect to the europe transaction therefore failed: at [102], [104] and [105]. 11 there was insufficient legal proximity between feng and the regional group such that a duty of care did not arise to render him liable in negligence: at [110].12 on the balance of probabilities, feng did falsely represent to andrew that wps was a company associated with and controlled by walkers. at all times, andrew believed that funds paid into the wps bank account from pam would be held by walkers in their capacity as solicitors for pam to andrew’s order. thus, andrew transferred the funds to the wps bank account in the erroneous belief, induced by feng, that the wps bank account was controlled by walkers, any sums deposited would be held “in escrow” by walkers to his order, and walkers would be ultimately responsible and accountable for the sums deposited as such: at [169]. 13 it was sufficient, for the purposes of fraudulent misrepresentation, that the defendant made the representation to an agent acting for a class of persons in circumstances where the defendant knew that the representation would be communicated to and acted on by the agent’s principals: richardson v silvester (1873) lr 9 qb 34; swift v winterbottom (1873) lr 8 qb 244; jtrust asia pte ltd v group lease holdings pte ltd and others [2020] 2 slr 1256: at [187]–[189]. the representations in this case were made by feng to andrew with the intention that the investors, whoever they were, should act upon them by authorising the transfer of funds to wps: at [196]. the requirements for fraudulent misrepresentation were therefore satisfied and micro tellers made out its case in fraud: at [201]. 14 although feng did not know the identity of the actual investors associated with pam, he knew that pam did not beneficially own the funds. thus, feng ought to have appreciated that his duties to pam as its retained solicitor extended to those investors, whoever they were. while the threshold for finding an implied retainer is a high one and the facts in this case were not as strong as those in law society of singapore v ahmad khalis bin abdul ghani [2006] 4 slr(r) 308, the threshold was met on the facts: at [209].15 feng was the pivot around which the private bank acquisition revolved. andrew relied on him for legal advice and for the expertise that he and his contacts could provide to engineer the purchase of the desired bank. hence, feng had voluntarily placed himself in a position where the law should objectively impute an intention on his part to undertake fiduciary duties. these duties were to ensure the safe custody of the funds held in the wps account and to use them solely for the purpose of the private bank acquisition. feng was in breach of these duties when he dissipated the residual sums in the wps account: at [213]–[215].16 by parity of reasoning to the analysis regarding solicitors’ duties, fiduciary duties were owed to andrew and pam but additionally to all the investors, including micro tellers. hence, micro tellers’ case based on breach of trust succeeded: at [216]–[218].17 the class of people to whom feng was acting as a fiduciary consisted of all those who were the beneficial owners of sums placed with pam which were then transferred by andrew to the wps account on the faith of the false representations made by feng to him. the regional group fell within that class and the fact that they were unaware that their funds were being used for the private bank acquisition could not absolve feng of liability to them. hence, the regional group’s claim against feng for breach of trust/fiduciary duty succeeded: at [233]–[235]. 18 moon’s reaction when feng asked her to become involved with wps was to ask whether the company’s name mattered to walkers, feng’s employer. he answered that it did not, and she did not question him further: at [271]. the honest person in moon’s position, ie, newly married to a successful solicitor who carried on some private business on his own account, would have adopted the same attitude as her: at [277]. accordingly, moon did not have constructive knowledge, either on the basis of wilful blindness or the honest person test, that the purpose underlying the incorporation of wps was to induce persons to deposit money with wps or that the funds paid into the wps account did not belong beneficially to wps: at [279]. the action against moon for dishonest assistance therefore failed: at [281]. the case in conspiracy also failed since there was no agreement between feng and moon to do the acts relied upon: at [284].19 the plaintiffs maintained their claim in this action in relation to the private bank acquisition when it appeared that, as assignees under the settlement agreements with the initial defendants, they were already entitled to seek payment of sums in excess of those claimed: at [289]. nevertheless, justice could be done by an appropriate undertaking to avoid the possibility of double recovery and by considering the appropriate costs order: at [292].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.