supreme court of singapore5 september 2023case summarymohd sadique bin ibrahim marican v the law society of singapore and another [2023] sghc 246court of three judges – originating application no 4 of 2023   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by tay yong kwang jca):outcome: the court of three judges allowed the reinstatement application but imposed the following conditions on the applicant for a period of 12 months from the issuance of his first practising certificate after reinstatement:(a) he is not to be a sole proprietor, partner (including managing partner or salaried partner), or director (including managing director, senior executive director, executive director, senior associate director or associate director) of any law practice;(b) he is not to hold or receive any client or trust account moneys, or operate any client or trust account of any law practice; (c) he is not to be a signatory to any client or trust account of any law practice; and (d) he is to undergo courses on ethics and the legal profession (solicitors’ accounts) rules (“sar”) conducted by the law society.background to the application1 c3j/oa 4/2023 (the “reinstatement application”) was an application by mr mohd sadique bin ibrahim marican (“mr sadique”) under s 102(2) of the legal profession act 1966 (2020 rev ed) (“lpa”) to be reinstated to the roll of advocates and solicitors of the supreme court of singapore (the “roll”). 2 mr sadique was struck off the roll on 20 january 2011 in law society of singapore v zulkifli bin mohd amin and another matter [2011] 2 slr 620, due to his failure to supervise his law firm’s accounts and to put in place an adequate system of periodic checks. this dereliction of duty was a serious breach of professional duty as it allowed the misappropriation of clients’ funds of more than $11m by his then partner, mr zulkifli bin mohd amin. the parties’ submissions3 mr sadique made three broad arguments in support of the reinstatement application. first, that an adequate period of time of 12.5 years had elapsed between the time he was struck off the roll on 20 january 2011 and the filing of the reinstatement application. second, that he was completely rehabilitated during the 12.5 years that elapsed after he was struck off the roll and the 15.5 years since the occurrence of the breaches for which he was struck off. third, that his reinstatement to the roll would neither endanger the public nor diminish public confidence in the general reputation and standing of the legal profession. 4 the law society of singapore (“law society”) and the attorney-general (“ag”) did not oppose the reinstatement application on the basis that certain conditions would be imposed on mr sadique for a period after he was issued his first practising certificate. decision of the court5 the court of three judges (“the c3j”) accepted that mr sadique should be reinstated. there was an adequate period of time that had passed between the striking off order and the reinstatement application. the c3j also accepted that mr sadique had been fully and completely rehabilitated as evinced by his continued engagement with the law and the testimonials from various members of the legal profession who worked with him while he was in the middle east. in the judgment of the c3j, mr sadique’s reinstatement to the roll would also not undermine the protection of the public interest or the reputation of the legal profession: at [26], [28] and [34]. 6 nevertheless, the c3j held that it was necessary to impose conditions on mr sadique’s reinstatement to send a clear signal to his potential clients that practical measures were in place to protect their interests. in this regard, the c3j accepted the ag’s submission that four conditions be imposed on mr sadique for a period of 12 months after the issue of his first practising certificate. the c3j was of the view that these conditions would be sufficient to help him reintegrate into singapore law practice while providing his potential clients with an adequate measure of assurance and protection: at [35], [36]. 7 the c3j thus imposed the following conditions on mr sadique for a period of 12 months from the issuance of his first practising certificate after reinstatement (at [37]):(a) he is not to be a sole proprietor, partner (including managing partner or salaried partner), or director (including managing director, senior executive director, executive director, senior associate director or associate director) of any law practice;(b) he is not to hold or receive any client or trust account moneys, or operate any client or trust account of any law practice; (c) he is not to be a signatory to any client or trust account of any law practice; and (d) he is to undergo courses on ethics and the sar conducted by the law society.8 the law society and the ag did not seek costs for the reinstatement application. thus, the c3j made no order as to costs: at [38].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.