supreme court of singapore31 july 2023case summarypublic prosecutor v soo cheow wee and another appeal [2023] sghc 204general division of the high court – magistrate’s appeal no 9220 of 2022  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):outcome: the general division of the high court allows the appeal of an offender who suffers from multiple mental conditions and reduces his sentence from 33 months’ imprisonment to 27 months’ imprisonment. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  where an offender suffers from multiple mental conditions, the specific facts the court should consider in determining the impact of these conditions on sentencing would include (at [51]):o the existence, nature and severity of each mental condition; o the interaction between the mental conditions and in particular, the synergistic manner in which different mental conditions may come together and operate on the accused person’s mind;o whether a causal link can be established between the conditions and the commission of the offence; o the extent to which the offender had insight into his mental conditions and their effects; and o whether the overall circumstances are such as to diminish the offender’s culpability.•  where an offender is sufficiently aware of the mental conditions he suffers from and their effects, but nonetheless knowingly embarks on a course of action that renders him more susceptible to the symptoms of his conditions surfacing, the offender’s self-induced condition will generally not be a mitigating factor. on the other hand, where the offender is unaware or lacks sufficient understanding of the effect that his intoxication or substance abuse might have in precipitating symptoms of his conditions, his consumption of alcohol or other substances may not be treated as an aggravating factor and instead, considerations of rehabilitation may emerge: at [65] and [66].•  when the mental condition of the offender falls to be assessed, it is the duty of both the psychiatrist and counsel to ensure that the evaluation is accurate: at [96].background to the appeal 1 the offender (referred to as the “appellant”) was a 50-year-old singaporean male. three psychiatric reports prepared by the institute of mental health (“imh reports”) and a corrective training report (“ct report”) provided some insight into the three mental conditions that the appellant suffers from, which are: (a) schizophrenia; (b) polysubstance dependence; and (c) psychosis that was believed to be triggered by his substance abuse and which caused symptoms of auditory hallucinations and persecutory delusions. 2 sometime in the morning of 17 february 2022, the appellant went to geylang and consumed cough syrup and diazepam without a prescription. that night, the appellant went to his mother’s house at clementi avenue 1 (the “unit”). at about 8.25pm, the appellant called the police, reporting that “someone wants to kill me and my mother. i don’t know how to explain. can you stop asking me questions”. after making the phone call to the police, the appellant took a knife that was wrapped in newspaper and loitered along a pavement near the unit. he claimed that he heard a voice telling him to slash members of the public at random.  3 at about 8.39pm, the appellant first approached a pedestrian, running after him with the knife in his hand. the pedestrian managed to escape unhurt. 4 at about 8.40pm, the appellant targeted one mr wong wei jie (“mr wong”). when mr wong approached the appellant, the appellant took out the knife and swung it towards mr wong’s head. mr wong used his hand to block the attack, resulting in the appellant slashing mr wong’s hand with the knife. mr wong immediately ran towards a nearby supermarket. mr wong was subsequently admitted to national university hospital (“nuh”) for his injuries, where he was diagnosed with right hand traumatic laceration.5 after attacking mr wong, the appellant continued to loiter around the pavement. when a female pedestrian walked towards him, the appellant swung the knife in her direction, but she managed to escape unhurt. 6 the appellant then flagged a taxi driven by mr goh wui teck (“mr goh”) and asked to be driven to clementi police division. as the taxi was approaching the clementi police division, the appellant opened the passenger door and attempted to leave while the taxi was still in motion. mr goh immediately stopped the taxi and the appellant fell onto the road near the kerb. when mr goh exited the taxi to check on the appellant, mr goh noticed that the appellant was holding a knife. the appellant pointed the knife towards mr goh, who stepped back, but the appellant charged at him with the knife in his hand. mr goh ran away and was unhurt.7 the appellant then turned his attention to the police officers who were on duty at the entrance to the clementi police division. he walked towards them with a knife while shouting incoherently. the police officers commanded the appellant to stop and drop the knife, but the appellant continued to advance forward. at about 8.55pm, the appellant suddenly charged towards one of the police officers on duty while brandishing his knife. sensing an imminent threat to the lives and safety of those present, the officer fired a live round at the appellant, which struck his left arm and caused him to fall to the ground. the appellant was then arrested and conveyed to nuh for treatment. 8 the appellant faced eight charges before the district judge (“dj”), four of which he pleaded guilty to and four of which were taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing. the four proceeded charges were: a. committing an offence under s 324 of the penal code 1871 (2020 rev ed) (“penal code”) (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) by slashing the hand of mr wong, with a knife and causing him to suffer right hand traumatic laceration on 17 february 2022 (the “first charge”); b. committing an offence punishable under s 506 of the penal code (criminal intimidation) by charging towards a police officer, mr tan chuan zhen, while brandishing a knife and threatening him with grievous hurt with intent to cause alarm on 17 february 2022 (the “second charge”); c. committing an offence punishable under s 506 of the penal code (criminal intimidation) by charging at mr goh with a knife while threatening him with grievous hurt with intent to cause alarm on 17 february 2022 (the “third charge”); andd. committing an offence punishable under s 332 of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) by punching the face of a police officer who was on duty, one saini bin karim, and causing him to suffer from tenderness and swelling of his left temporoparietal region on 9 june 2019 (the “fourth charge”). 9 the dj sentenced the appellant to an aggregate imprisonment term of 33 months. in coming to his decision, the dj considered that a sentence of corrective training would be disproportionate to the imprisonment term that would otherwise have been imposed. both the prosecution and appellant appealed against the dj’s decision on sentence for the first, second and third charges. issues to be determined 10 the main question that arose in the appeals was the appropriate sentence that should be imposed on the appellant, given his mental conditions. however, this was a particularly difficult issue in the present case, as neither the prosecution nor the appellant adduced sufficient psychiatric evidence on the appellant’s mental conditions and also did not deal squarely with the impact of the mental conditions on sentence in their submissions: at [47]. 11 notwithstanding these constraints, the court’s analysis proceeded as follows (at [48]): a. first, the court detailed the applicable principles governing the sentencing of an offender with multiple mental conditions and explained the importance of psychiatric evidence in assisting the sentencing court when determining the appropriate sentence to be imposed.b. second, the court considered the appellant’s mental conditions in three stages: i. what does the available psychiatric evidence say about the existence, nature and severity of the appellant’s mental conditions? moreover, is there any interaction between the mental conditions?ii. is there a causal link between the appellant’s mental conditions and his offending behaviour?iii. did the appellant have sufficient insight into his mental conditions? c. third, the court applied the relevant sentencing considerations to the facts. d. finally, after considering the appropriate weight to be attributed to the appellant’s mental conditions, the court determined the appropriate imprisonment term to be imposed.decision of the courtprinciples governing the sentencing of an offender with multiple mental conditions 12 the sentencing of a mentally disordered offender often requires the court to contend with sentencing objectives that may pull in opposite directions, with some emphasising the need to protect society and others, the importance of rehabilitating the offender where feasible. in light of this potentially paradoxical effect that an offender’s mental condition has on sentencing, the court must carefully consider the specific facts of each case. the relevant facts include (at [50] and [51]): a. the existence, nature and severity of each mental condition;b. the interaction between the mental conditions and in particular, the synergistic manner in which different mental conditions may come together and operate on the accused person’s mind; c. whether a causal link can be established between the conditions and the commission of the offence; d. the extent to which the offender had insight into his mental conditions and their effects; and e. whether the overall circumstances are such as to diminish the offender’s culpability. assessment of the appellant’s mental conditions 13 it was common ground between the parties that the appellant suffered from: (a) schizophrenia; (b) polysubstance dependence; and (c) substance-induced psychosis. however, the nature and severity of the appellant’s schizophrenia and polysubstance dependence were not explored in detail in the imh reports and ct report: at [72] and [73].  14 the nature of the appellant’s substance-induced psychosis was explored at greater length. the medical evidence stated that the appellant’s substance-induced psychosis caused him to suffer from distressing auditory hallucinations. it was common ground that these hallucinations were so distressing that he was at times, unable to sleep for several days. he had also tried on several occasions to kill or injure himself in order to avoid giving in to what his hallucinations seemed to be commanding him to do. while the medical evidence lacked a specific conclusion on the severity of this condition, it could be reasonably inferred that the appellant’s substance-induced psychosis was severe, given the extreme, albeit misguided, lengths to which he went in attempting to resist yielding to the auditory hallucinations: at [74]. 15 significantly, the court found it relevant that the imh reports stated that the appellant was suffering from substance-induced psychosis at the time of the offences in february 2022 and his symptoms (namely, hallucinations and persecutory delusions) “contributed substantially” to the offences by impairing his judgment and impulse control. this observation strongly supported the conclusion that subject to any question of the psychosis being knowingly self-induced through substance abuse, the appellant’s mental responsibility was significantly impaired given that he was psychotic at the time, and this in fact contributed “substantially” to the commission of the offences: at [83]. 16 it was pertinent that there was no information in the imh reports or the ct report that shed light on whether the appellant was aware that his substance abuse would trigger his psychosis, thus increasing the risk of violent behaviour. this was significant because the prosecution’s main submission in relation to the appellant’s mental conditions is that they should not be treated as a mitigating factor because the appellant had voluntarily ingested the substances, knowing that it would trigger his psychosis: at [84] and [87]. 17 in light of the gaps in the psychiatric evidence, the court observed that there were several issues which the psychiatric reports could have more thoroughly addressed, although the court noted that the imh reports appeared to be prepared primarily to assess the appellant’s fitness to stand trial: at [92], [94] and [95]. 18 given the evidence before the court, the court proceeded on the basis that the appellant suffered from the three mental conditions and that his substance-induced psychosis contributed substantially to the commission of the offences. in the absence of evidence that the appellant had sufficient insight that if he ingested certain substances, this would result in violent psychotic behaviour on his part and that he nonetheless voluntarily chose to act in this way, the court found that his medical conditions substantially impaired his responsibility and that this was a mitigating factor. it would have been unrealistic to sentence the appellant as if he was an ordinary mentally fit person: at [96] and [97]. the appropriate imprisonment term 19 for the first charge, the parties agreed that the three-step approach set out in ng soon kim v public prosecutor [2020] 3 slr 1097 (“ng soon kim”) should guide the sentencing process. the first step of the ng soon kim approach embodies the two-stage framework set out in low song chye v public prosecutor and another appeal [2019] 5 slr 526 (“low song chye”). at the first step of the low song chye framework, the court was satisfied that the dj’s sentence of four months’ imprisonment would be justified if the hurt had been the subject of the charge brought under s 323 of the penal code: at [117]. 20 however, at the second stage of the low song chye framework, the court disagreed with the dj that there should be a further uplift of five months’ imprisonment, considering the following factors: (a) the extent of deliberation or premeditation; (b) the manner and duration of the attack; and (c) the victim’s vulnerability. as the appellant’s mental conditions contributed substantially to his offending behaviour, his decision-making abilities were substantially impaired at the time of the offences due to his psychosis. the manner of the attack was also substantially due to the appellant’s substance-induced psychosis. however, considering mr wong’s vulnerability and the fact that the appellant had attacked mr wong in a public place, which gave rise to some public alarm, there was basis for an uplift of two months’ imprisonment: at [122], [123] and [124]. 21 at the second step of the ng soon kim approach, the court was of the view that an uplift of six months’ imprisonment was warranted. this step required the court to consider factors such as the dangerous means used to inflict the injuries; the potential harm that could have been inflicted and possible alarm to third parties and/or the public. the appellant had used a knife in his attack of mr wong, which was an inherently dangerous weapon. the potential harm that could have been inflicted was also high: at [126] and [127]. 22 the final step of the ng soon kim approach required a consideration of the various aggravating and mitigating circumstances at play that had not already been considered. at this step, the court was of the view that an uplift of three months’ imprisonment was sufficient. the appellant’s drug-related and substance-related antecedents were not relevant as there was no evidence that the appellant was aware of his mental conditions or their effects on his behaviour. no mitigating weight was placed on the appellant’s submission that he had strong family support and physical injuries that would prevent him from reoffending: at [130] and [131]. 23 an appropriate sentence for the first charge was thus a sentence of 15 months’ imprisonment: at [132] and [133].  24 for the second and third charges, the court adjusted the appellant’s sentence downwards by three months from the sentence of 12 months’ imprisonment imposed by the dj, who did not consider the appellant’s mental condition as a mitigating factor. the essence of an offence under s 506 of the penal code is an intention to cause alarm. while the appellant indeed did cause alarm to the public due to his actions, his decisions at the time of the offences were the product of his disordered mind, and due to his medical condition, the extent of the appellant’s control over his actions was compromised: at [138] and [139]. 25 for these reasons, the appellant’s aggregate sentence was reduced to a total of 27 months’ imprisonment: at [140].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.