supreme court of singapore25 july 2023case summarybybit ltd v ho kai xin & ors [2023] sghc 199general division of the high court – originating claim no 320 of 2022 (summonses nos 910 and 1526 of 2023) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by justice philip jeyaretnam):outcome: the gdhc declares a constructive trust over improperly transferred crypto assets. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the holder of a crypto asset has in principle an incorporeal right of property recognisable by the common law as a thing in action and so enforceable in court: at [36]. this is the first time that this has been decided in any common law court. background to the dispute1 bybit fintech limited (“bybit”) sought summary judgment against the first defendant, one ms ho kai xin (“ms ho”) in respect of certain crypto assets. the crypto asset in question was one called tether which is an example of what has been described as a stablecoin. by this it is meant that its issuer represents that it backs each stablecoin issued with an equivalent value in fiat currency or other reserves. the issuer typically offers terms of service under which verified holders of the stablecoin have the right to redeem it with the issuer for fiat currency. this link to a fiat currency, in this case the united states dollar, is reflected in the name by which tether is commonly referred to, namely usdt, standing for united states dollar tether.2 the claim against her was that in breach of her employment contract, she abused her position to transfer quantities of usdt to “addresses” secretly owned and controlled by her, as well as a quantity of fiat currency to her own bank account. the main relief sought was a declaration that ms ho holds both the usdt and the fiat currency on trust for bybit. bybit accordingly sought an order for the return of the same or of its traceable proceeds, or for payment of a sum equivalent in value. the court’s decision 3 the court decided that the crypto assets in question, here usdt, are indeed property capable of being held on trust. the court further found that usdt, which may be transferred from one holder to another cryptographically without the assistance of the legal system, are nonetheless things in action. while bybit relied on the fact that usdt also carries with it the right to redeem an equivalent in united states dollars from tether limited, a company incorporated in the british virgin islands (“bvi”), makes it look more like traditionally recognised things in action, this feature was not considered necessary for a crypto asset to be classed as a thing in action. the court held that like any other thing in action, usdt is capable of being held on trust.4 in so holding, the court referred to the legal history of things in action as they developed in the common law in england (see [34] and [35]) and how the law approaches other social constructs such as money (see [36]).5 the court went on to hold that on the facts ms ho had wrongfully transferred the assets in question and declared an institutional constructive trust over them in favour of bybit. the court also made ancillary orders, including tracing orders. 6 the court therefore granted summary judgment in bybit’s favour.this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.