supreme court of singapore11 december 2023case summarylaw society of singapore v cheng kim kuan [2023] sghc 350originating application no 2 of 2023--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of three judges, comprising tay yong kwang jca, steven chong jca and belinda ang jca (delivered by tay yong kwang jca):outcome: the court of three judges (the “c3j”) orders that a legal practitioner be suspended for six months for professional misconduct in breaching an undertaking given to the council of the law society and the supreme court of singapore.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  a breach of a solicitor’s undertaking will give rise to a prima facie cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action: at [43]. •  the starting point when considering the appropriate sanction to impose in cases not involving dishonesty or deceit should ordinarily be a fine. a fine is not appropriate where the legal practitioner’s misconduct was not mere inadvertence: at [51].•  where a solicitor undertakes to personally supervise another solicitor, such personal supervision entails proactive steps on the part of the supervisor so that he can ensure that the supervisee is practising in a controlled environment. personal supervision would be completely meaningless if the supervisor did not bother to know what legal work the supervisee was undertaking and how he was coping generally: at [55].background to the appeal and material facts1 on 12 may 2021, mr cheng kim kuan (“mr cheng”), who was then a legal practitioner of nearly 24 years’ standing, gave an undertaking (the “undertaking”) to the council of the law society and the supreme court of singapore to be the supervising solicitor for mr ravi s/o madasamy (“mr ravi”) in respect of the latter’s conditional practising certificate for the practice year 2021/2022 (the “conditional practising certificate”). 2 amongst others, the undertaking stated that mr cheng was informed by mr ravi of the conditions attached to the conditional practising certificate (the “conditions”) and that he has read and understood the conditions. it was also common ground that mr cheng had read and understood the conditions. mr cheng also confirmed that he had agreed to undertake the role of supervising solicitor and he had understood that mr ravi would only be practising as an advocate and solicitor only under mr cheng’s personal supervision and out of the office of mr cheng’s legal practice, k k cheng law llc (“kkcl”).3 between 17 november 2021 and 16 december 2021, letters were exchanged between mr cheng and the attorney’s general chambers (“agc”). in gist, the correspondence pertained to various incidents concerning mr ravi’s behaviour and alleged misconduct in several legal matters in which mr ravi was instructed as a solicitor, and the agc had requested information from mr cheng relating to the circumstances of his supervision over mr ravi’s legal practise. these included, amongst others, if mr cheng was aware of the matters and details of the steps taken by mr cheng in respect of mr ravi’s conduct, the arrangements put in place by mr cheng in supervising mr ravi’s legal practice, the nature and scope of such supervision, the office in which mr ravi practises out of, the arrangements put in place in respect of monies paid by mr ravi’s client, whether mr cheng was seeking to withdraw his consent to act as mr ravi’s supervising solicitor and to be released from his obligations under the undertaking.4 at the time mr cheng had received the first letter from the agc, he met with mr ravi seeking his explanation as to the allegations made by the agc. mr ravi provided no explanation of the same. mr cheng further sought to impose several conditions regarding their supervisory arrangement, but mr ravi did not agree. in further correspondence between mr cheng and the agc, mr cheng stated that he did not intend to withdraw his consent to act as supervising solicitor but he would cease acting as mr ravi’s supervising solicitor when mr ravi’s conditional practicing certificate expired at the end of march 2022, although he was unable to personally supervise mr ravi’s conduct of his legal matters or his general conduct in the meantime.5 following the exchange of correspondence between the agc and mr cheng, the attorney-general brought a complaint against mr cheng for breach of the undertaking to the council of the law society of singapore pursuant to s 85(3) of the legal profession act 1966 (2020 rev ed) (“lpa”). on 20 july 2022, a disciplinary tribunal (the “dt”) was appointed to hear and investigate the complaint.6 before the dt, the law society of singapore (the “law society”) preferred six principal charges and six alternative charges against mr cheng. the dt found that cause of sufficient gravity existed in relation to the first and the third charges and their alternatives. the first charge and its alternative alleged that mr cheng breached the undertaking by failing to supervise mr ravi’s legal practice as an advocate and solicitor in kkcl. the third charge and its alternative alleged that mr cheng had breached the undertaking by failing to provide a monthly written report to the law society and the agc for the month of november 2021 by the stipulated deadline of 1 december 2021. the dt was satisfied that these breaches on mr cheng’s part constituted breaches of rr 8(3) and 13(4) of the legal profession (professional conduct) rules 2015 and that amounted to: (a) grossly improper conduct in the discharge of mr cheng’s professional duty within the meaning of s 83(2)(b) of the lpa and (b) misconduct unbefitting of an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the supreme court or as a member of an honourable profession within the meaning of s 83(2)(h) of the lpa.decisiondue cause was established 7 the court agreed with the dt that due cause was established in respect of the first charge and its alternative. the only proactive and positive step taken by mr cheng in supervising mr ravi’s practice was mr cheng’s management of the payment of monies by mr ravi’s clients into kkcl’s office account. besides this, there was simply no attempt by mr cheng to supervise mr ravi’s legal practice in any way: at [45] to [46].8 the court agreed with the dt that due cause was established in respect of the third charge and its alternative. mr cheng’s obligation to provide a monthly written report to the law society and the agc was a strict one that did not contain any qualifier this meant mr cheng was required to file a monthly report by the stipulated deadline, regardless of the circumstances. his failure to do so in respect of the written report for the month of november 2021 therefore amounted to a breach of paragraph 2(b) of the undertaking: at [48] to [49].a six-months suspension is appropriate9 a fine is not commensurate with mr cheng’s breach of the undertaking: at [52].10 the starting point is to appreciate the necessity of adhering to the undertaking – namely because of mr ravi’s psychiatric condition. as can be seen from the conditions, mr ravi was required to undergo prescribed medical tests, treatments and assessments to determine whether he continued to be medically fit to practice as an advocate and solicitor. mr ravi also had to consume medication prescribed to him by the psychiatrist. the preventive and protective measures in the conditions were essential to ensure that mr ravi would be practising in a controlled environment. accordingly, the argument that mr ravi was a senior lawyer and should be able to handle his legal practise on his own misses the point: at [53] and [56]. 11 while mr cheng’s obligation of personal supervision did not entail that he function as a full-time guardian to mr ravi in his legal practice, mr cheng should, at the very least, apprise himself at least as to what legal work mr ravi had taken on and whether he was coping well generally. personal supervision in these circumstances entail proactive steps on the part of the supervisor so that he can ensure that the supervisee is practising in a controlled environment. personal supervision would be completely meaningless if the supervisor did not bother to know what legal work the supervisee was undertaking and how he was coping generally. however, the evidence showed mr cheng simply was not aware of what mr ravi was doing: at [55]. 12 if mr cheng had any doubts as to the scope of the undertaking, the onus was on him to clarify. this was not done. more importantly, mr cheng simply undertook no form of supervision at all: at [60].13 although mr cheng had assumed the undertaking with good intentions, that must be balanced out with the solemn nature of the undertaking he gave as an advocate and solicitor to the supreme court and to the law society. he could not then proceed with his supervisory role with an indifferent or nonchalant attitude: at [64].conclusion14 the c3j found that there was due cause for disciplinary action and imposed a six-month suspension under ss 83(2)(b) and 83(2)(h) of lpa commencing 1 january 2024. the c3j further ordered mr cheng to pay costs of $12,000 inclusive of disbursements to the law society for the proceedings before the dt and before the c3j: at [65].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.