supreme court of singapore9 june 2023case summarythe republic of india v deutsche telekom ag [2023] sgca(i) 4  civil appeal no 1 of 2023 (summons no 4 of 2023)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: the court of appeal dismisses the application in summons no. 4 of 2023 for civil appeal no. 1 of 2023 and any other applications that may be filed in connection with it to be heard in private, for the case file to be sealed and for other related information to be redacted or concealed.pertinent and significant points from the grounds of decision:•  the purpose of ss 22 and 23 of the international arbitration act 1994 (2020 rev ed) (“iaa”) is to protect the confidentiality of the arbitration itself. as such, the interest in keeping any enforcement proceedings confidential under the iaa is essentially a derivative interest designed ultimately to protect the confidentiality of the underlying arbitration. the enforcement proceedings in singapore did not merit continued protection under ss 22 and 23 of the iaa as the confidentiality of the arbitration had substantially been lost: at [23]–[24], [30]–[38] and [42].•  recourse to the inherent powers was unhelpful in the present context as the applicant had not sought to invoke the court’s inherent powers to protect some other interest that was independent of that protected by the statutory provision. the applicant’s position was advanced on essentially the same grounds, namely that the confidentiality of the arbitration had not been lost: at [43].background to the application1 the applicant is the republic of india (“india”). the respondent, deutsche telekom ag (“dt”), is a company incorporated under the laws of the federal republic of germany. an indian state-owned entity (“antrix”) and a company (“devas”) of which dt was a shareholder were parties to an agreement which was subsequently terminated. dt commenced arbitration proceedings in switzerland (the “arbitration”) against india, contending that the annulment of the agreement was in violation of a bilateral investment treaty between india and germany.2 following the tribunal’s issuance of the final award in dt’s favour, dt obtained an order of court granting it leave to enforce the final award in singapore (the “leave order”). india then applied in hc/sum 155/2022 (“sum 155”) to set aside the leave order but was unsuccessful. in ca/cas 1/2023 (“the appeal”), india appealed against the dismissal of sum 155 with costs.3 in the present application, india sought for the appeal and any other applications filed in connection with it to be heard in private, for any information (including the parties’ identities) or documents relating to the appeal to be concealed, for the case file for the appeal to be sealed, for the parties in the appeal to not be identified in any hearing lists and for any published judgment or decision that may be issued in these proceedings to be redacted.decision on the application4 imposing a cloak of privacy on court proceedings is an exceptional measure that departs from the general rule that such proceedings are subject to the principle of open justice. such a departure has been statutorily provided for in ss 22 and 23 of the iaa. that being said, given that the purpose of ss 22 and 23 of the iaa is to protect the confidentiality of arbitration proceedings itself, where the confidentiality of the arbitration has been lost, then the principle of open justice would weigh strongly in favour of lifting the cloak of privacy that has been provided for by the statute: at [14]–[15] and [23]–[24]. 5 the court should not be made to go through an empty exercise to protect confidentiality when there is nothing left to protect. there had already been multiple disclosures of considerable information relating to the arbitration, the identity of the parties and enforcement proceedings in singapore and abroad. the confidentiality of the arbitration had substantially been lost and the enforcement proceedings in singapore did not merit continued protection under ss 22 and 23 of the iaa: at [28], [30]–[38] and [42].6 there would be no basis for invoking the court’s inherent powers as an alternative unless this was done to protect some other interest that was independent of that protected by the statutory provision. however, india’s position was advanced on essentially the same grounds, namely that the arbitration was confidential. having held that that was no longer the case here when considering the position under ss 22 and 23 of the iaa, an argument for the exercise of inherent power founded on the same grounds was hopeless: at [43]. 7 while india also submitted that the disclosure of information in the appeal would provide ammunition for third parties to tarnish india’s reputation and this justified invoking the court’s inherent powers, an intrinsic feature of open justice was that the conduct of all parties would be open to being scrutinised by those who may be interested. in any event, further information disclosed in the appeal would not assist these third parties in their alleged attempts to tarnish india’s reputation: at [44]–[46].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.