supreme court of singapore7 december 2023case summarysalaya kalairani (legal representative of the estate of tey siew choon, deceased) and another v appangam govindhasamy (legal representative of the estate of t govindasamy, deceased) and others and another appeal [2023] sghc(a) 40 civil appeal nos 117 and 118 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by justice valerie thean):outcome: appellate division of the high court held that 24 cuff road was jointly owned by the estate of the late mr t govindasamy and mdm salaya kalairani, who was sued in both her capacities as the legal representative of the late mdm tey siew choon’s estate and the beneficiary of mdm tey’s share in 24 cuff road under her will. the appellate division ordered that 24 cuff road be sold if mdm kalairani did not purchase mr govindasamy’s half-share. the appellate division also ordered mdm kalairani to account to the legal representatives and co-administrators of mr govindasamy’s estate for rental received during the six years before the suit was filed. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  acquiescence may be used as a defence against statutory claims: at [55].•  for acquiescence to be successfully invoked as a defence, there must be an unequivocal representation on the part of the plaintiff, and reliance by the defendant. delay, therefore, is not sufficient; the plaintiff must have, by standing by, made representations to found estoppel, a waiver or an abandonment of rights to induce the other person to believe that there was consent: at [65]–[66]background to the appeal1 the late mdm tey siew choon (“tey”) and the late mr t govindasamy (“tg”) purchased 24 cuff road, singapore (the “property”) as tenants-in-common in equal shares on 28 may 1970. tg passed away on 10 october 1993, while tey passed away on 24 may 2015. 2 after both tg and tey passed away, two of tg’s children and two of his grandchildren (“the plaintiffs”) commenced hc/s 107/2022 (“suit 107”) in their capacities as the legal representatives and co-administrators of tg’s estate against mdm salaya kalairani (“kalairani”), the sole executrix and trustee of tey’s will and in her personal capacity. the plaintiffs sought: (a) an order for the sale of the property and the distribution of the proceeds of sale; and (b) an account and inquiry of all rental proceeds of the property received since tg’s death from kalairani. kalairani counterclaimed for a declaration that tg held his half-share in the property on trust for tey and an order for tg’s half-share to be transferred to tey’s estate.3 the judge dismissed kalairani’s counterclaim. the judge ordered that the property be sold and the net proceeds to be distributed equally between tg’s estate and tey’s estate. the judge dismissed the plaintiffs’ claim for an account and inquiry of the rental proceeds received by kalairani after tg’s death, finding that this claim was barred by laches.4 ad/ca 117/2022 (“ad 117”) was kalairani’s appeal against the judge’s order that the property be sold and his dismissal of her counterclaim. ad/ca 118/2022 (“ad 118”) was the plaintiffs’ appeal against the judge’s finding that their claim for an account and inquiry of the rental proceeds was barred by laches.decision on appealad 1175 the court rejected the plaintiffs’ argument that s 46(2)(c) of the land titles act (cap 157, 1994 rev ed) precluded a finding that tg held his half-share in the property on trust for tey. the plaintiffs had read the relevant authorities out of context: at [34]–[39].6 the court agreed with the judge’s finding that kalairani had not proven her argument based on a resulting trust. there was no evidence that tey had paid for the property in its entirety. furthermore, if tey had done so, there was no valid reason for tg to have been named as a tenant-in-common in equal share at the time of purchase: at [41]–[43].7 the court agreed with the judge’s finding that kalairani had not proven her case on a common intention constructive trust. the documentary evidence and tey’s conduct weighed against any finding of such a constructive trust: at [44]–[47].8 in the light of the relevant authorities, it appeared to the court that acquiescence may be used as a defence against statutory claims: at [55].9 the authorities reflect that for the doctrines of equitable estoppel, waiver or abandonment of rights to be successfully invoked as a defence, there must be an unequivocal representation on the part of the plaintiff, and reliance by the defendant. delay, therefore, is not sufficient; the plaintiff must have, by standing by, made representations to found an estoppel, a waiver or an abandonment of rights to induce the other person to believe that there was consent: at [65]–[66].10 kalairani could not rely on acquiescence to prevent the plaintiffs from seeking a sale of the property. there was nothing more than delay on the part of the plaintiffs in failing to enforce tg’s legal title. kalairani also could not prove the allegation on which her pleaded case on acquiescence rested. further, there was nothing unconscionable about the plaintiffs recovering legal title or seeking a sale of the property: at [67]–[70].11 the court agreed with the judge’s decision to order a sale of the property. kalairani had not pleaded for the property to be partitioned. further, the judge did not err in finding that kalairani ought not to be allowed a partition of the property based on the applicable principles. the parties were unlikely to be able to cooperate in the future. kalairani’s allegation about an emotional attachment to the property was also in itself insufficient. moreover, kalairani did not explain why she did not take up the plaintiffs’ offer for her to purchase their half-share: at [71].12 the court therefore dismissed ad 117: at [73].ad 11813 the mere fact that tg was a co-owner was insufficient to form the basis of an equitable duty to account. the case of aw chee peng v aw chee loo [2022] 5 slr 451 correctly summarises the law, which is that no fiduciary relationship arises merely from the relationship of co-owners. more is required beyond the fact of co-ownership: at [75] and [77].14 the court agreed with the plaintiffs that the claim for an account and inquiry of the rental proceeds ought to have been premised on s 73a of the conveyancing and law of property act (cap 61, 1994 rev ed) (“clpa”). while the plaintiffs did not plead s 73a of the clpa, the court nevertheless allowed the plaintiffs to rely on s 73a of the clpa for three reasons. first, the law need not be pleaded unless there is a specific requirement to do so. second, the material facts underlying the claim had been pleaded. third, no further evidence was needed from either side: at [79]–[81].15 allowing the plaintiffs to rely on s 73a of the clpa meant that the doctrine of laches would no longer apply. first, as a matter of law, kalairani could not rely on laches as a defence to the plaintiffs’ statutory claim for an account of rental under s 73a of the clpa. second, the facts on which the judge found laches to apply were not pleaded by kalairani. mere delay was insufficient, and kalairani was unable to prove the alleged acknowledgment by tg’s three sons that tg’s half-share belonged to tey: at [83]–[87].16 estoppel, waiver and abandonment of rights were not relevant because kalairani had not shown an unequivocal representation by the plaintiffs that they waived or abandoned their right to all rental collected prior to their demand on 23 june 2021, nor that kalairani had relied on such representation: at [90].17 as the court allowed the plaintiffs to rely on s 73a of the clpa, it appeared just to also allow kalairani to plead and rely on a new defence of limitation based on s 6(2) of the limitation act (cap 163, 1996 rev ed). this was fair because no further evidence was required from either side. furthermore, the plaintiffs agreed that they would not pursue any rental in the period prior to six years before the filing of the writ: at [93].18 ad 118 was therefore allowed in part. the court ordered kalairani to account for the rent received from 24 september 2015, and to pay to the plaintiffs half of the rent after deduction of reasonable expenses in respect of the property and the rental thereof: at [94] and [97].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.