supreme court of singapore31 may 2023case summarycyw v cyx [2023] sghc(i) 10singapore international commercial court — originating application no 3 of 2023 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by thomas bathurst ij):outcome: sicc dismissed an application to set aside an arbitral award for breach of the rules of natural justice and inability to present one’s case. background 1 the applicant, cyw, is a company incorporated in indonesia and a state-owned entity of the government of indonesia. at the material time, its directors were mr c and mr d. the respondent, cyx, is the singapore branch office of company c, a company situated in the netherlands offering banking services. 2 cyw, cyw’s associated company and cyx entered into certain commercial arrangements relating to the purchase of cattle in queensland, australia for slaughter and importation into indonesia as beef products. company b was designated to supply the cattle. 3 in november 2017, mr c signed a sales and management service agreement (the “sales management agreement”) with company b, purportedly on cyw’s behalf, which contemplated a bill exchange facility between company b and cyx to fund the purchase orders made by cyw under the sales management agreement. in gist, under the sale management agreement: (a) cyw would first issue monthly purchase orders for cattle; (b) company b would raise bills of exchange for its services with cyw as drawee and cyx as payee; and (c) cyw was required to pay the total amounts set out in each bill of exchange in accordance with the facility agreement between company b and cyx. 4 in addition, mr c purported to execute on cyw’s behalf a security deed (the “security deed”) to secure any moneys due from cyw to cyx under which a fixed charge over all livestock purchased by cyw from company b and any products or proceeds derived from their sale was granted to cyx. the security deed was governed by queensland law. under the sales management agreement, company b issued 21 invoices and bills of exchange, 14 of which were accepted by mr c purportedly on behalf of cyw. 5 following the removal of mr c and mr d as directors of cyw, cyw refused to accept several bills of exchange. cyx thus appointed receivers and managers of the livestock and its proceeds in the exercise of its powers under the security deed. 6 cyw thereafter commenced arbitration proceedings in singapore on 3 february 2023 (the “arbitration”), which were administered by the singapore international arbitration centre. in the arbitration, cyw denied that it was liable to pay the accepted bills because: (a) cyw lacked capacity to enter into the security deed or to accept the bills; and (b) mr c had no authority to enter into the security deed on cyw’s behalf. cyw sought declarations that the security deed and related contracts were void and invalid, as well as consequential damages. cyx, by counterclaim, sought to enforce the security deed and counterclaimed for, among other things, the amount unpaid on the accepted bills.the procedural course of the arbitration 7 following the constitution of the arbitral tribunal (the “tribunal”), the tribunal issued: (a) procedural order no 1 (“po no 1”) on 6 july 2022 which provided for cyw to submit its statement of claim (“soc”) together with all supporting documents including witness statements and legal authorities by 14 september 2020; and (b) a procedural timetable on 20 july 2020 (the “procedural timetable”) which required cyw to file its expert reports with its reply and defence to counterclaim (“rdcc”) by 3 may 2021. on 22 july 2020, the hearing on the merits was set down for five days commencing on 6 september 2021. 8 cyw sought, and was granted, an extension until 28 september 2020 to file its soc and supporting documents. po no 1 also required all exhibits or legal authorities that were not in english to be translated within five days of the documents being submitted. cyw sought, and was granted, an extension until 23 october 2020 to provide the necessary translations, but it failed to do so and did not provide any explanation for its failure. 9 cyx filed its defence and counterclaim on 16 november 2020. on 7 december 2020, the parties exchanged requests for the production of documents. on 15 february 2021, the tribunal ordered that the requested documents were to be produced by 22 march 2021. although cyw sought an extension of two weeks to provide the documents, it failed to do so by the extended deadline. 10 on 15 april 2021, cyx: (a) advised the tribunal that it had not received the requested documents; and (b) the translations of the exhibits submitted with the soc remained outstanding. the tribunal granted cyw a further extension until 11 may 2021 to provide the necessary translations. 11 on 21 april 2021, cyw applied for a two-week extension to file its rdcc as it was allegedly experiencing difficulties in obtaining instructions. the tribunal granted an extension for cyw to file its rdcc by 17 may 2021, and for cyx to file its rejoinder and reply to defence to counterclaim by 28 june 2021. cyw failed, without explanation, to file the rdcc by the extended deadline. 12 on 19 may 2021, the tribunal directed cyw to file the rdcc by 21 may 2021, which cyw failed to adhere to. on 25 may 2021, the tribunal e-mailed the parties, proposing to proceed with the arbitration. on the same day, counsel for cyw sought an extension of one week to seek instructions from their client. on 27 may 2021, the tribunal granted a further extension until 18 june 2021 for cyw to file its rdcc. 13 cyw failed to submit its rdcc by 18 june 2021 and, on that day, wrote to the tribunal seeking a further 14-day extension on the basis that cyw required more time to seek approval and clearance from the government due to the covid-19 (“covid”) pandemic in indonesia. on 21 june 2021, the tribunal granted a 14-day extension for the delivery of the rdcc. 14 the rdcc was filed on 25 june 2021 without witness statements or expert reports. cyw wrote to the tribunal on the same day alleging that its witnesses had been diagnosed with covid and thus could not prepare the statements and/or expert report. cyw also requested a suspension of the arbitration pending purported criminal investigations against employees of cyx. on 3 july 2021, the tribunal issued procedural order no 2 (“po no 2”) denying the suspension application, and directing that cyw submit its witness statements, expert reports and translations of all exhibits and legal authorities relied on by 7 july 2021. 15 on 5 and 7 july 2021, counsel for cyw wrote to the tribunal requesting for: (a) the setting aside of the orders for the filing of the necessary documents made in po no 2; and (b) the tribunal to direct that the report of its expert, prof f, be filed one week after his full recovery from covid and that the english translations be submitted two weeks later. on 8 july 2021, the tribunal wrote to the parties setting out its reasons for rejecting cyw’s requests. on 28 july 2021, counsel for cyw informed the tribunal that cyw was withdrawing from the arbitration under protest. the tribunal, by a majority, declined to allow cyw to withdraw its claims. 16 by an award dated 16 may 2022 (the “award”), the tribunal dismissed cyw’s claim, declared that the security deed was valid, and ordered cyw to pay cyx damages with interest. decision of the court17 there were two issues: (a) whether there was a breach of natural justice by reason of cyw not having been given a fair opportunity to present its case; and (b) whether, assuming that there was a breach of natural justice, cyw had suffered prejudice as the tribunal was denied the benefit of arguments that had a real as opposed to fanciful chance of making a difference to its decision: at [67].on whether there was a breach of natural justice 18 the parties’ right to be heard is not unlimited and was impliedly limited by considerations of reasonableness and fairness. the overarching inquiry was whether the proceedings were conducted in a manner which was fair, and the court must ask itself if what the tribunal did fell within the range of what a reasonable and fair-minded tribunal in those circumstances might have done, based on what was known to the tribunal at the time, and with a margin of deference being accorded to the tribunal in matters of procedure: at [71]. 19 the tribunal’s approach in stating that no further extension would be given to file the rdcc beyond 17 may 2021 was reasonable, considering that it had granted a three-week extension of time when cyw’s counsel only sought a one-week extension: at [76].20 the tribunal had taken into account the difficulty cyw faced in obtaining instructions and the fact that its witnesses had contracted covid. however, cyw had had nearly eight months to obtain the necessary documents, and consistently failed to comply with timetables. at [79].21 the tribunal had considered cwy’s response to po no 2 contained in cyw’s counsel’s letters of 5 and 7 july 2021 and resolved not to vary the orders. it could not be said that cyw was not afforded an opportunity to be heard in relation to the tribunal’s orders in po no 2: at [82]. 22 it was open to the tribunal to make the orders which it made in po no 2 because: (a) the orders were made in circumstances where there had been consistent non-compliance with the tribunal’s directions; (b) the tribunal had given cyw a more than reasonable opportunity to file the material; (c) cyw had some eight months to provide the material; (d) cyw was unable to provide any timeframe by which the outstanding material would be supplied; (e) cyw’s conduct would, if it were allowed to continue, lead to the adjournment of the hearing and consequent difficulty in obtaining an early alternative date; and (f) cyx had a legitimate interest in the prompt determination of the arbitration: at [84].23 in all the circumstances, the approach of the tribunal was one which was open to be taken by a reasonable and fair-minded tribunal, and there was therefore no breach of natural justice as cyw had been given a reasonable opportunity to present its case: at [85], [87] and [88].on whether cyw was prejudiced 24 cyw’s contention that prof f’s evidence would have had a real chance of making a difference to the tribunal’s decision raises two difficulties. first, there was no evidence of what prof f was likely to say in his report on the question of mr c’s actual or implied authority, in the absence of which it could not be said that cyw had demonstrated that the tribunal was denied the benefit of arguments which had a real chance of making a difference to the tribunal’s decision: at [94]. 25 in any event, prof f’s opinion could not affect the basis on which the tribunal unanimously reached their conclusion on ostensible authority and estoppel which the tribunal concluded were matters governed by queensland law: at [95].26 the tribunal noted: (a) that it was an agreed fact that the security deed had not been translated into bahasa indonesia; (b) cyw’s submission that that failure caused the security deed to be in breach of indonesian law (the “language law”); and (c) that cyw had relied upon a decision of the indonesian supreme court (the “indonesian case”) which held invalid a loan agreement governed by indonesian law that was not translated into bahasa indonesia. however, cyw’s argument was unanimously rejected by the tribunal as the security deed was governed by queensland law, and not indonesian law: at [96] and [97].27 there were two insuperable difficulties to cyw’s submission that it was prejudiced by the exclusion of prof f’s expert report and the indonesian case from the arbitration. first, there was nothing to suggest that prof f would have given an opinion contrary to that of cyx’s witness, or that the tribunal’s decision was incorrect. second, there was nothing to suggest that prof f would have given evidence that the language law extended to an agreement governed by queensland law. in these circumstances, it could not be said that it has been established that prof f’s evidence would have had a real chance of making a difference to the tribunal’s decision: at [101].conclusion28 the court therefore dismissed the application. cyw was ordered to pay cyx its costs of the application: at [102] and [103].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.