supreme court of singapore25 may 2023case summaryjumaat bin mohamed sayed and others v attorney-general [2023] sgca 16civil appeal no 2 of 2023 (summons no 8 of 2023)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by steven chong jca):outcome: the court of appeal dismisses application seeking the reinstatement of an appeal deemed withdrawn and an extension of time to file the documents required in the appeal under o 19 r 30(4) of the rules of court 2021. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the more stringent test mandated under s 394j of the criminal procedure code 2010 cannot be circumvented by purporting to frame an application under a different procedure, that is, by way of judicial review under o 24 r 5 of the rules of court 2021. •  whether an application should be brought under the procedure for criminal review or judicial review turns on the subject-matter and the reliefs sought in the application.introduction1 the applicants were convicted and sentenced to the mandatory death penalty under s 33(1) read with the second schedule to the mda. their appeals against their convictions were separately dismissed by this court in the period spanning between february 2016 and may 2020. one of the applicants had also previously filed an application for criminal review under s 394h of the criminal procedure code 2010 (2020 rev ed) (“cpc”), which was dismissed on 5 april 2021.2 in the present application, they seek (a) the reinstatement of the appeal in ca/ca 2/2023 (“ca 2”); and (b) an extension of time to file the appellants’ case, the record of appeal, core bundle and all other relevant documents (the “documents”) pursuant to o 19 r 30(4) of the rules of court 2021 (“roc”) to no later than eight weeks following the date on which the foreign counsel applications of mr edward fitzgerald kc and mr theodoros kassimatis kc to represent the applicants in ca 2 (the “admission applications”) are decided and all consequential matters arising from the applications are addressed. to date, the admission applications have not been filed.background facts3 ca 2, which sum 8 seeks to restore, is an appeal against the decision of justice valerie thean (the “judge”) to dismiss the application in hc/oa 480/2022 (“oa 480”). in oa 480, the applicants applied for permission to seek the following reliefs under o 24 r 5: (a) a declaration that the presumptions in “[ss] 18(1) and 18(2) of the misuse of drugs act 1973” ought to be “read down” and “given effect as imposing an evidential burden only in compliance with” articles 9(1) and 12(1) of the constitution of the republic of singapore (2020 rev ed) (the “constitution”) and the common law presumption of innocence; (b) alternatively, a declaration that the presumptions are unconstitutional for violating articles 9(1) and 12(1) of the constitution; and (c) a prohibiting order against the execution of death sentences upon the applicants. the applicants argued that articles 9 and 12 of the constitution protect the fundamental rules of natural justice, which are procedural rights aimed at securing a fair trial. this included the presumption of innocence. the applicants’ primary contention was that ss 18(1) and 18(2) of the mda violate the constitutionally-protected presumption of innocence. on their case, the presumption of innocence mandates that the prosecution proves each and every element of the offence beyond a reasonable doubt. however, the presumptions in s 18 of the mda shift the legal burden of proof in respect of certain key elements of the offence in question to the accused person. because an accused person is required to rebut the presumptions on the balance of probabilities, an accused person can be convicted even though he has raised a reasonable doubt to rebut the presumptions. the applicants proposed interpreting ss 18(1) and 18(2) such that they may be rebutted where the accused is able to raise a reasonable doubt.4 on 25 november 2022, the judge provided her reasons for dismissing oa 480 in jumaat bin mohamed sayed and others v attorney-general [2022] sghc 291 (the “judgment”).5 the applicants filed the notice of appeal against the judge’s decision on 23 december 2022. by a letter dated 17 january 2023, the registry informed the applicants that the record of proceedings was available and the time to file the documents would run from the date of the notice. a series of correspondence ensued between one of the applicants, datchinamurthy a/l kataiah (“datchminamurthy”), and the registry in relation to the admission applications. 6 the time for the filing and service of the documents in ca 2 eventually lapsed on 14 march 2023. this was communicated to parties at the case management conference (“cmc”) on 20 march 2023 and by letter on 21 march 2023. on 31 march 2023, sum 8 was filed.the present application 7 the principal reason relied on by the applicants in support of sum 8 is that their non-compliance with the filing and service timelines under o 19 r 30(4) was due to the administrative hurdles in relation to the filing of the admission applications. 8 the applicants submit that the length of the delay is not inordinate, the delay was due to the difficulties experienced by the applicants in seeking clarification and making arrangements for the admission applications, there are merits to the intended appeal  as it deals with a novel question of law that involves an examination of the relationship between the presumption of innocence and art 9(1) of the constitution, and any prejudice caused to the respondent is minimal as it was already on notice about the grounds of appeal and cannot be said to be caught unaware. 9 the ag urges this court to dismiss the present application as the applicants’ conduct amounts to an abuse of process, there was no valid reason for their delay, there is no merit to the substantive appeal in ca 2, and the propriety of the applicants’ convictions is beyond doubt. in relation to the applicants’ case that the presumptions under ss 18(1) and 18(2) of the mda were inconsistent with articles 9 and 12 of the constitution and the common law presumption of innocence, the ag submits that the presumption of innocence is not a fundamental rule of natural justice under art 9 and emphasise that the foreign jurisprudence relied on by the applicants in oa 480 is not relevant to the present case because those jurisdictions (namely, united kingdom, hong kong and canada) had statutes that entrenched the presumption of innocence. the court’s decision10 oa 480 and consequently ca 2, is in essence a challenge against the conviction of the applicants. this amounts to an attempt to review the concluded criminal appeals with respect to their convictions. in seeking leave to apply for a prohibiting order against the execution of their capital punishments, the applicants are in substance challenging their convictions. the proper procedure to mount such a challenge following their concluded criminal appeals, as rightly found by the judge, is by way of a criminal review application under s 394h of the cpc or the inherent power of the court. the applicants cannot circumvent the more stringent test mandated under s 394j of the cpc by purporting to frame the application under a different procedure, that is, by way of judicial review under o 24 r 5 of the roc: at [25] and [32].11 in the present case, there is no “sufficient material” for the court to consider that the threshold of a miscarriage of justice has been crossed. the applicants’ arguments on the unconstitutionality of the presumptions in s 18 of the mda could have been raised earlier with reasonable diligence. furthermore, such an argument is neither new nor novel as it was first examined by the privy council in ong ah chuan and another v public prosecutor [1979–1980] slr(r) 710 in the context of the statutory presumption that is the equivalent of s 17 of the mda. there, the privy council held that the presumption was not contrary to articles 9(1) and 12(1) of the constitution. in any case, the applicants have not demonstrated that the courts which convicted them on the premise that they had not rebutted the presumptions on a balance of probabilities had nonetheless found that they had raised a reasonable doubt. it is also observed that one of the applicants, datchinamurthy, would have been barred from filing a criminal review application under s 394k(1) of the cpc for he had filed a prior review application which was dismissed by this court: at [27]–[29] and [31].12 the fundamental defect in procedure is sufficient to dispose of sum 8. nonetheless, the court considered each of the factors for the application for an extension of time. first, the length of delay of 17 days was short and the court would have been minded to allow the application if the applicants were able to satisfy the merits criterion. secondly, although the reason cited for the delay was the difficulties in the filing of the admission applications, these applications remain unfiled to date and this was not the first time that the applicants have purported to appoint foreign counsel to represent them in these proceedings. thirdly, there are no merits in the reliefs sought in ca 2 for the reason that the application proceeded on the incorrect procedure and would not have otherwise satisfied the cumulative requirements under s 394j of the cpc. finally, while the prejudice occasioned to the respondent is limited, the issue is rendered moot as the merits criterion is not met. the application is therefore dismissed as there are no merits whatsoever in the reliefs sought in the intended appeal in ca 2: at [35]–[39].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.