supreme court of singapore



8 november 2019



case summary




ong wui teck (personal representative of the estate of chew chen chin,

deceased) v ong wui swoon and another and another appeal



[2019] sgca 61





civil appeals nos 178 of 2017 and 31 of 2019




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice andrew phang boon

leong):





outcome: court of appeal allows the appellant’s appeal in relation to

claims made and awarded against his deceased mother’s estate, but dismisses

his appeal in relation to claims for further sums of executor’s commission.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· apart from the requirements of offer, acceptance and consideration, there

must also be an intention to create legal relations on the part of the

parties concerned in order for a binding and enforceable agreement to

arise. specifically, where an arrangement is made in the domestic or social

context, there is a presumption that the parties do not intend for the

legal consequences to follow, that is, there is no intention to create

legal relations (at [45]).




· a personal representative ceases to be an executor and administrator only

after all the assets of the estate have been vested in the personal

representative, and the estate has been fully administered. before the

debts and liabilities of the estate have been fully settled, the

beneficiaries to the will cannot claim to have a beneficial interest in the

assets of the estate, and the personal representative cannot be regarded as

a trustee over those assets (at [66] and    [68]).



introduction



1 the appellant (“the appellant”) is the eldest son of the deceased (“the

deceased”) and the sole executor and trustee of the deceased’s will and

estate (“the will” and “the estate” respectively). the respondents are also

the children of the deceased and beneficiaries under the will (“the

respondents”). the first respondent is the deceased’s daughter (“the first

respondent”) and the second respondent is the deceased’s son (“the second

respondent”) (at [1]).



background to the appeal



2 on 7 august 2014, the appellant filed the underlying application in the

high court (“the application”), claiming, among other things, various sums

which were allegedly unaccounted for by the respondents on behalf of the

estate. at the first hearing of the application, the first respondent

raised the issue of the deceased’s medical expenses that she had allegedly

paid for on the deceased’s behalf. the appellant denied these claims on the

basis that the deceased had paid for her own medical expenses while she was

alive. the high court judge (“the judge”) held that the first respondent’s

claim for the medical expenses that she had incurred on the deceased’s

behalf was a claim for a debt as a creditor of the estate, and that she

should make a claim with the appellant for this debt. at the next hearing

of the application, the judge decided that the best way forward would be to

allow the respondents to raise any claims they had against the estate as

counterclaims in the application, so that all possible claims could be

dealt with at once thus making it unnecessary to set aside any sum of money

as a contingency for future claims. the matter was adjourned for the

respondents to file further affidavits in support of any counterclaims they

may have had against the estate (at [2],    [11] and [12]).




3 the first respondent subsequently filed an affidavit stating that she

wished to make a claim against the estate for, among other things, (a)

$20,000 that was promised to her by the deceased; and (b) reimbursement for

the deceased’s cancer medication expenses, including interest on those

amounts (“the medical expenses claim”). the second respondent also filed an

affidavit stating that he too wished to make a claim for the $20,000 that

was also promised to him by the deceased (the respondents’ claims for

$20,000 are collectively referred to as “the $20,000 claims”) (at    [3], [13] and [14]).




4 the appellant filed further submissions claiming various administration

costs from the estate (“the administration costs claims”). this claim

comprised, among other things: (a) “accounting costs” for accountancy

services provided by the appellant’s wife in the administration of the

estate in the sum of $10,000 (“the accounting costs claim”) and (b) work

done by the appellant as a litigant-in-person representing the estate in

the sum of $20,000 (“the litigation costs claim”) (at [15]

).


the decision of the high court 


5 the judge concluded that the deceased owed a debt of $20,000 to each of

the respondents and allowed the $20,000 claims on that basis. the judge

held that at the point in time when the deceased was making the will, she

acknowledged that she did owe money to her children and that she should

return the moneys she had previously received from them. the judge further

relied on the specific use of the word “return” in cl 3.1 of the will, in

relation to the $50,000 bequeathed to the appellant, as an indication that

the deceased had treated the sum as a repayment of a debt (at    [22]).




6 the judge allowed the medical expenses claim in the amount of $13,597.10.

the judge found that there was sufficient evidence, in the form of the

first respondent’s american express credit card statements and medisave

statements, to prove that she had actually incurred medical expenses on the

deceased’s behalf. the judge further noted that “there was a pattern of

conduct by the [deceased], when she was alive, to repay [the first

respondent] the medical expenses incurred by the [first respondent] on the

[deceased’s] behalf”. there was no evidence to show that the first

respondent had been reimbursed for these expenses incurred by her. the

judge found that there was some credibility in the first respondent’s

story, on the basis that she had admitted to being reimbursed for some

items which were not minor. however, the judge rejected the claim for

interest on the payments made (at [24] and     [25]).




7 the judge dismissed the accounting costs claim and the litigation costs

claim. the judge held that the claim for accounting services provided by

the appellant’s wife and the appellant’s own time costs as a

litigant-in-person representing the estate were in effect claims for

executor’s remuneration and commission. with regard to the accounting costs

claim, the judge found that the appellant’s wife was “assisting the

[appellant] voluntarily and gratuitously in her personal capacity”, and

that she was “not running a business as an accountant and [was] not engaged

by the [appellant] as an arms-length service supplier to the estate” (at    [26]). as for the litigation costs claim, the judge stated

that as a consequence of the “fundamental rule in equity that no one who

has a duty to perform shall place himself in a situation to have his

interests conflict with that duty”, an executor is not entitled to

remuneration for personal trouble and loss of time in the execution of his

duties. he went on to state that in singapore, the exception to this rule

can be found in s 66 of the probate and administration act (cap 251, 2000

rev ed) (“paa”), which provides that a court may in its discretion allow

the executor a commission not exceeding 5% of the value of the assets

collected by them. since the judge had previously allowed the appellant’s

claim for a commission of $75,000, which amounted to the maximum commission

allowed under s 66, the court had no further discretion to allow a

commission above the statutory limit (at [27] and    [28]).



 


the decision of the court of appeal



8 notwithstanding that the amount in dispute may be less than $250,000, the

appellant did not require leave of court to bring the present appeals.

section 34(2)(a) of the supreme court of judicature act (cap 322,

2007 rev ed) (“scja”) states that any case where the amount in dispute, or

the value of the subject matter, at the hearing before the high court does

not exceed $250,000 can be appealed to the court of appeal only with leave

of court. however, para 3(d) of the fifth schedule to the scja

states that s 34(2)(a) does not apply to contentious probate

proceedings commenced in the high court before 1 january 2015. the

application was commenced at first instance in the high court on 7 august

2014. therefore, s 34(2)(a) of the scja did not apply and leave to

appeal was not required (at [41]).




9 claims for repayment of debts made against deceased persons should be

supported by compelling evidence, given that the deceased persons would be

unable to rebut such claims posthumously (at [44]).




10 apart from the requirements of offer, acceptance and consideration,

there must also be an intention to create legal relations on the part of

the parties concerned in order for a binding and enforceable agreement to

arise. specifically, where an arrangement is made in the domestic or social

context, there was a presumption that the parties did not intend for legal

consequences to follow (at [45]).




11 there was nothing in the evidence to rebut the presumption that there

was no intention to create legal relations. the deceased was lying on a

hospital bed when the second respondent arrived and began questioning her

about the $50,000 that was allegedly being “returned” to the appellant

pursuant to the will. when the appellant explained that this was in

“repayment” for the $800 monthly allowances that the appellant had given

the deceased throughout the years, the second respondent argued that he

should be entitled to at least $20,000 given that he had given the deceased

an allowance of $300 per month. it was only as a result of the second

respondent’s complaint that the deceased agreed to give him $20,000 after

she was discharged from hospital. when the lawyer drafting the will asked

the deceased if there was anyone else she wanted to give money to, the

deceased initially said no, but relented and agreed to give $20,000 to both

respondents. crucially, the deceased declined to include these amounts in

the will. if the deceased had truly intended for her promise of $20,000 to

have legal effect, there was no reason for her not to include it in the

will. further, if she had intended for the moneys to be in repayment for a

debt owed to the respondents, there was no reason for her to insist that

she make payment herself after she was discharged from hospital. yet

further, there would at least have been some attempt on her part to

determine the exact amount that was due. instead, the deceased decided to

give the same lump sum figure to each of the respondents. the deceased’s

behaviour was more consistent with a mother attempting to pacify her

children for their complaints of being treated unfairly, as opposed to

someone who genuinely believed that she owed a legal debt to her children

and who had wanted to repay them (at [47] and     [48]).




12 the respondents contended that the $20,000 was in repayment for the

monthly allowances that the respondents had given the deceased. it is

presumed that monthly payments made by children to their aged mother are

intended to be gratuitous contributions to their mother’s living expenses.

no evidence was adduced to show that these monthly allowances were

intended, instead, to be loans which had to be repaid. there was similarly

no evidence to show that the first respondent had intended to be

remunerated for her effort in looking after the deceased (at    [49]).




13 the judge should not have placed so much emphasis on just the use of the

word “return”. first, the use of the word “return” did not necessarily lead

to the inference that the $50,000 was intended to be repayment for a debt,

given that there could be multiple interpretations of the word depending on

the context in which it is used. in any event, the use of the word “return”

was irrelevant to the legal character of the $50,000. second, the

deceased’s refusal to include the $20,000 payments in the will clearly

demonstrated that the deceased had intended to treat the $20,000

differently from the $50,000. therefore, even if the deceased had intended

to treat the $50,000 as repayment of a debt, the same could not necessarily

be said of the $20,000. the decisions of district judge james leong and

chan sek keong cj in ong wui teck v ong wui jin and others [2008]

sgdc 103 and ong wui jin and others v ong wui teck [2009] sghc 50,

respectively, were concerned primarily with determining whether the will

was valid, therefore any observations made in their judgments should not be

taken as their findings in relation to the legal nature of these sums (at    [50] and [51]).




14 the court of appeal (“ca”) agreed with the judge that the documents

adduced by the first respondent were sufficient to prove that she had

actually incurred medical expenses on behalf of the deceased (at    [54]). however, the ca agreed with the appellant that

given the mother-daughter relationship between the deceased and the first

respondent, there was a presumption that any payments made by the latter on

the former’s behalf were intended to be gratuitous payments for which she

did not expect to be reimbursed. there was insufficient evidence for this

presumption to be displaced for the following reasons. first, there was a

complete lack of documentary evidence to prove that the first respondent

had in fact been reimbursed by the deceased, let alone that there was an

agreement for her to be reimbursed. the mere fact that there was a “pattern

of conduct” by which the deceased reimbursed the first respondent did not

in and of itself mean that there was an agreement for the first respondent

to be reimbursed. given the familial relationship between the parties, it

was presumed that the medical expenses incurred by the first respondent on

the deceased’s behalf, and the reimbursement that she would subsequently

receive, were made out of goodwill as opposed to a legal obligation.

secondly, the first respondent’s own evidence that she was reimbursed for

some medical expenses but not for others ran counter to any suggestion that

there was an agreement for the first respondent to be reimbursed whenever

she paid for the deceased’s medical expenses. thirdly, if there was in fact

an agreement for the first respondent to be reimbursed, it was puzzling

that she did not seek reimbursement while the deceased was still alive, or

at the very latest as the will was being drafted. contrary to what the

judge had found, the ca considered that the estate was irreparably

prejudiced by the medical expenses claim being made only after the deceased

had passed away (at [55] to [58]).




15 the main thrust of the appellant’s argument on the accounting costs

claim and litigation costs claim was that, having collected the assets of

the estate, the appellant was no longer an executor and administrator but

was instead a trustee of the will. therefore, it was the trustees act (cap

337, 2005 rev ed), and not the paa, which governed his and his wife’s

entitlement to remuneration for services provided on behalf of the estate

(at [61]).




16 a personal representative ceases to be an executor and administrator

only after all the assets of the estate have been vested in the personal

representative, and the estate has been fully administered. this involves

getting in all the assets of the estate, paying for any funeral,

testamentary and administrative expenses, and satisfying all outstanding

debts against the estate. this also accorded with the terms of the will,

which provides at cl 3 that all of the deceased’s property is bequeathed

upon her trustee subject to payment of the deceased’s debts, funeral and

testamentary expenses. it followed that before the debts and liabilities of

the estate had been fully settled, the beneficiaries to the will could not

claim to have a beneficial interest in the assets of the estate, since some

of the assets may have to be used in satisfaction of the said debts and

liabilities. therefore, if the beneficiaries did not have an equitable

interest in the assets of the estate, the personal representative could not

be regarded as a trustee over those assets (at [64] and    [66]). given that the litigation costs claim and the

accounting costs claim were claims for expenses allegedly incurred in the

administration of the estate, it was clear that these were claims made by

the appellant in his capacity as executor of the estate. accordingly, the

appropriate statutory provision which governed the duties, rights and

powers of the appellant in his capacity as executor was the paa.

accordingly, the ca did not find any merit in the suggestion that the

appellant was authorised to appoint and remunerate his wife for providing

accounting services in the execution of the trust pursuant to the trustees

act. similarly, the trustees act did not apply to govern the appellant’s

remuneration for services that he had allegedly rendered to the estate as a

litigant-in-person in defending against the respondents’ counterclaims.

therefore, since the appellant had previously been awarded executor’s

commission amounting to 5% of the assets collected, he was statutorily

barred from being awarded further sums by virtue of s 66 of the paa (at    [67], [69] and [70]).




17 even if s 43 of the trustees act were applicable, the discretion to

award remuneration for services rendered as a trustee of the estate vested

solely in the court. while the personal representative was entitled to out

of pocket expenses, he was not (unless the will provided otherwise)

entitled to remuneration for personal trouble and loss of time in the

execution of his duties. remuneration might be awarded if a trustee had

performed services of an exceptionally onerous character which could

properly be regarded as wholly outside the scope of any duties which could

reasonably have been expected to be rendered by trustees in the normal

course of their duties. in the present case, the services rendered by the

appellant in the administration of the estate were not particularly

exceptional or onerous. therefore, even if the appellant were to be

regarded as a trustee, the ca saw no reason to award him with remuneration

(at [71] to [73]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.