supreme court of singapore



25 october 2019



case summary


wham kwok han jolovan v public prosecutor 

[2019] sghc 251





magistrate’s appeal 9041 of 2019




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the high court (delivered by justice chua lee ming):





outcome: the high court dismisses the appeal against conviction and

sentence of wham kwok han jolovan.



facts



1 the appellant claimed trial to and was convicted of two charges. the

first charge was under the public order act (cap 257a, 2012 rev ed)

(“poa”), for organising a public assembly without a permit, to publicise

the cause of “civil disobedience and democracy in social change”. the

appellant had organised a public event entitled “civil disobedience and

social movements”. a permit was required for the event because one of the

speakers, joshua wong chi-fung (“wong”), was not a singapore citizen. the

police had advised the appellant to apply for a permit but he did not do

so.




2 the second charge was for refusing to sign an investigation statement

recorded from the appellant under the criminal procedure code (cap 68, 2012

rev ed) (“cpc”), which was an offence under the penal code (cap 224, 2008

rev ed).




3 the district judge convicted the appellant of both charges after the

trial. the appellant was sentenced to a fine of $2,000 (in default, ten

days’ imprisonment) for the first charge and a fine of $1,200 (in default,

six days’ imprisonment) for the second charge.




4 the appellant appealed against his conviction and sentence.



decision of the high court



5 the high court dismissed the appellant’s appeal against conviction and

sentence.




6 the appellant first argued that the provision under the poa that

prohibited him from holding a public assembly without a permit, contravened

article 14 of the constitution of singapore which protects the right of all

singapore citizens to “assemble peaceably and without arms”.




7 under the poa, it is an offence to organise a public assembly without a

permit, where a permit is required. the authority to grant a permit is

vested in the commissioner of police, who may refuse to grant a permit on

any of the specified grounds in the poa. should the commissioner refuse an

applicant’s permit application, the applicant may appeal the decision to

the minister.




8 the appellant argued that the permit requirement contravenes article 14

of the constitution because an event organiser who chooses to go ahead with

the event after his application for a permit has been rejected, would be

guilty of the offence under the poa even if the refusal to grant a permit

is subsequently challenged and found to be invalid. the court rejected this

argument, as the argument incorrectly assumed that an applicant who

disagrees with the commissioner’s decision is entitled to disregard and

defy it, instead of challenging the decision in court. it is for the court

alone to decide whether the commissioner’s decision was invalid (at    [25]).




9 the appellant further argued that the permit requirement under the poa

contravenes article 14 of the constitution because there is no practical

remedy if the commissioner acting in bad faith refuses to grant a permit.

the appellant argued that even if the commissioner’s decision is

successfully challenged in court, the court can only quash the decision.

the court cannot issue the permit or direct the commissioner (or minister)

to issue the permit. therefore, if the commissioner and minister continues

to act in bad faith after the court quashes the initial refusal, the

applicant would never be able to lawfully organise the public assembly. the

court rejected this argument. the assumption that the commissioner and

minister may act in bad faith and disregard the court’s decision was

speculative and unsubstantiated. the appellant’s argument would mean that

any law that requires a permit to carry out an activity may be struck down

simply by arguing that the permit may be refused in bad faith (at    [28]). the court was of the view that it should

be presumed that the commissioner and minister will, consistent with the

rule of law, act in accordance with the law (at [29]).    



10 the court then turned to consider whether the appellant’s event was an

“assembly” within the poa’s definition. the question turned on whether the

event advocated a cause, the cause being the use of civil disobedience to

bring about social change. advocating the method by which a substantive end

is to be achieved is as much a “cause” as the substantive end itself (at    [38]).there was no requirement that the event publicises

only a single cause; an event publicising multiple causes would also

constitute an assembly (at [39]). discussions could also

publicise a cause, if it defends or advocates a principle, aim or movement

to which one is committed (at [40]).



11 the court was satisfied that the prosecution had proved that the

appellant’s event publicised a cause by advocating the use of civil

disobedience to bring about social change. the description of the event

showed that the talk was about the role that civil disobedience had to play

in bringing about change, and it was not merely a neutral discussion. one

of the speakers at the event, wong, was a known hong kong activist who

advocated the use of civil disobedience. in inviting wong to speak, the

appellant clearly intended or expected his speech to include advocating the

use of civil disobedience to bring about social change. during the event,

wong told the audience about how civil disobedience had been used in hong

kong and asked the audience to think about using civil disobedience in

singapore. this amounted to advocating the use of civil disobedience. the

appellant himself had asked the audience – how do singapore citizens get

from what he described as “picnic”-type activism to the “very

confrontational civil disobedience types of actions”. in essence, he

advocated that singapore citizens should move towards civil disobedience.

the court was thus satisfied that the appellant was correctly convicted of

the first charge (at [43]–[49]).




12 as for the second charge, the appellant argued that he committed no

offence because he did not have a legal obligation to sign his statement

(which he had confirmed to be true and correct). the court rejected this

argument. the requirement under the cpc for the police officer to obtain

the statement-giver’s signature, is to ensure the accuracy and reliability

of the statement. this would be meaningless if the police officer does not

have the concurrent power to require the statement-giver to sign his

statement. being required to sign his statement does not mean that the

statement-giver has to sign the statement where he disagrees with its

contents. he can amend his statement before signing it (at    [63]).




13 the court also rejected the appellant’s argument that requiring him to

sign an incriminatory statement violated his privilege against

self-incrimination as protected under the cpc. the privilege is against

making a self-incriminatory statement; there is no privilege against

signing a self-incriminatory statement that a person has willingly chosen

to make (at [64]).




14 the court dismissed the appeals against sentence in respect of both

charges, as they were not manifestly excessive, taking into account the

facts of the appellant’s case and the relevant case precedents (at    [55] and [71]).








this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.