supreme court of singapore



9 march 2020



case summary




ascend field pte ltd and others v tee wee sien and another appeal

[2020] sgca 14.



civil appeal nos 85 and 86 of 2019





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal judith

prakash):





outcome: coa allows appeal in ca 85 in respect of the unlawful means

conspiracy claim and appeal in ca 86 in respect of part of the oppression

claim.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· a breach of fiduciary duties by a director does not by itself constitute

oppression of a shareholder. oppression arises where a violation of the

shareholder’s legitimate expectations results in an injury that amounts to

commercial unfairness.




· some degree of informality and flexibility in arrangements was to be

expected in quasi-partnerships.




· a company in an oppression action should be separately represented from

the alleged oppressor, even where the latter continues to manage the

company.



 


introduction



1 mr tee wee sien (“mr tee”) had commenced an action against ascend field

pte ltd (“afpl”), mr ng meng lay (“mr ng”), yi fang xiang services (“yfx”)

and ms kor chee kuan (“ms kor”) (collectively referred to as “the

defendants”) on the grounds of oppression under s 216 of the companies act

and conspiracy by unlawful means (“the action”). ca 85 and 86 were the

parties’ appeals against the decision of the high court judge (“the judge”)

to allow mr tee’s claims in part.



background to the appeal



2 mr ng and mr tee set up afpl in june 2011. although both men agreed that

they had an informal understanding prior to the incorporation of afpl,

subsequently the content of that informal understanding was in dispute. mr

ng and mr tee were equal shareholders in afpl. prior to the incorporation

of afpl, mr ng and his wife, ms kor, were running yfx, which provided

cleaning services for office premises and buildings.




3 mr tee was a signatory of afpl’s bank account from afpl’s incorporation

to 2012 (when he withdrew), and from march 2015 (when he was reinstated).

he subsequently claimed to have discovered various lapses in afpl’s

management after his reinstatement, including afpl’s payment of “service

fees” to yfx and the deployment of afpl’s employees to yfx’s projects.




4 around 2016, mr tee and his business partner, mr ching, grew concerned

about mr ng’s management of afpl and decided to restructure afpl’s

operations. the relationship between mr ng and mr tee subsequently broke

down. mr tee engaged a private investigator and obtained evidence that mr

ng had deployed afpl’s employees, equipment and resources for yfx’s

benefit. on 9 june 2016, mr ng removed mr tee as a signatory of afpl’s bank

account.




5 from april 2016 to july 2016, five contracts to clean a number of

premises were diverted from afpl to yfx. mr tee commenced the action on 12

july 2016.




6 the judge accepted that the informal understanding between mr ng and mr

tee was that mr ng was to run afpl’s day-to-day operations but was to seek

mr tee and mr ching’s approval for major decisions. the judge found that mr

ng had wrongfully diverted the five afpl contracts to yfx. the judge

ordered the defendants to account for the profits derived from these

contracts. the judge also found that there was a reciprocal arrangement for

afpl and yfx to assist each other – afpl was ordered to account for the

benefits it derived for any uncompensated use of yfx’s employees and yfx

was ordered to account for the benefits it derived from its uncompensated

use of afpl’s employees. the judge also ordered an inquiry into the extent

of yfx’s use of afpl’s vehicle and equipment. mr tee’s other claims of

oppression under s 216 of the companies act were dismissed.




7 the judge also found that mr tee’s conspiracy by unlawful means claim

succeeded only in respect of the five contracts that were found to have

been wrongfully diverted to yfx.



the court’s decision



8 the court of appeal held that the essence of a claim for relief under s

216 lies in upholding the commercial agreement between the shareholders of

the company, irrespective of whether the agreement is founded in the

company’s formal constitutional documents, in less formal shareholders’

agreements or, in the case of quasi-partnerships, in the legitimate

expectations of the shareholders: at [29].




9 the court of appeal applied the framework in



ho yew kong v sakae holdings ltd and other appeals and other matters



[2018] 2 slr 333 to determine whether the s 216 claim was founded on a

personal or corporate wrong. this required the court of appeal to determine

what mr tee’s legitimate expectations were qua shareholder of

afpl: at [40].




10 while the court of appeal adopted the judge’s findings in respect of the

unchallenged terms of the informal understanding, the court disagreed that

there was no agreement to close down yfx. some degree of informality and

flexibility in arrangements was to be expected in quasi-partnerships: at

[44]-[46] and [54].




11 the court of appeal found that, by allowing yfx to continue to run

existing contracts and take on new ones after afpl was incorporated up to

end april 2015, mr ng was preferring the interest of yfx over that of afpl

and acting contrary to mr tee’s legitimate expectations. as the parties

reached an understanding in may 2015 that tfx need not be closed, the court

of appeal allowed mr tee’s appeal in respect of the contracts which yfx had

after afpl’s incorporation up to end april 2015: at [58].




12 the court of appeal held that mr ng had a significant conflict of

interest when he caused afpl to forgo the gillenia and stellar rv

contracts, especially given that he allowed yfx to profit from its

acquisition of the foregone contracts. this constituted both a breach of

his fiduciary duty to afpl and a distinct personal wrong against mr tee.

the court of appeal also affirmed the judge’s findings that the five afpl

contracts from april to july 2016 were wrongfully diverted from afpl to

yfx: at [65] and [69].




13 the court of appeal found that it was wrong for mr ng to make afpl pay

yfx for the use of yfx’s workers while yfx made uncompensated use of afpl’s

labour. this breach of duty went beyond being a corporate wrong, and was

oppressive to mr tee’s interests as a shareholder. the court of appeal also

upheld the judge’s order for an inquiry into the exact extent of yfx’s use

of afpl’s resources: at [75]-[76] and [79].




14 the court of appeal agreed with the judge’s finding that, although mr

ng’s procurement of supporting quotations from yfx was improper, it was not

oppressive: at [89].




15 the court of appeal held that, considering the system of internal

controls that mr ng, mr tee and mr ching had agreed to implement, it was

oppressive for mr ng to remove mr tee as a bank signatory in june 2016: at

[92].




16 the court of appeal found that any failure to declare dividends could

not be attributed to mr ng and did not amount to oppressive conduct on his

part. it also found that no loan was made from afpl to mr ng: at [98] and

[101].




17 the court of appeal ordered an inquiry into the damages payable to afpl

by mr ng for acting in breach of his fiduciary duty to afpl in diverting

its contracts to yfx and, in respect of the period from afpl’s

incorporation up to end april 2015 for allowing yfx to remain in existence

and compete with afpl, and for providing the use of afpl’s resources and

manpower to yfx without fee. the said inquiry shall be conducted in this

action by mr tee but any damages found to be payable shall be paid by mr ng

to afpl and shall constitute a debt to afpl. the court of appeal left it to

the liquidators of afpl to inquire as to any misconduct by yfx, ms kor or

mr ng against afpl: at [110].




18 the court of appeal found that mr tee’s claim in unlawful means

conspiracy should not have been allowed as the conspiracy, if any, was

directed at afpl, not mr tee. it was for the liquidators, on behalf of

afpl, to investigate any allegations of unlawful means conspiracy: at

[112]-[113].




19 the court of appeal held that it was improper for counsel for mr ng and

yfx/ms kor to act for afpl in ca 85, as a company in an oppression action

should be separately represented from the alleged oppressor: at [114].



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.