supreme court of singapore


28 february 2020


case summary





china machine new energy corp v jaguar energy guatemala llc and

anor





[2020] sgca 12





civil appeal no 94 of 2018





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):





outcome: coa dismisses appeal against high court’s decision

declining to set aside arbitral award on grounds of breach of natural

justice.



 


introduction



1 the appellant, china machine new energy corporation (“cmnc”), sought to

set aside an arbitral award (“the award”) on the basis that it was obtained

in breach of natural justice. cmnc’s case was that the arbitral tribunal’s

(“the tribunal”) mismanagement of the arbitral proceedings – in particular,

its procedural decisions relating to the document production process and

the submission of expert evidence – resulted in its being denied a

reasonable opportunity of presenting its case.



background



2 the parties went to arbitration over disputes relating to the

construction of a power generation plant in guatemala (“the plant”). the

appellant, cmnc, was the contractor, and the respondents, jaguar energy

guatemala llc and aei guatemala jaguar ltd (collectively, “jaguar”), were

the owners of the plant. the parties’ relationship was governed by an

engineering, procurement and construction contract (“the epc contract”),

under which cmnc was to construct the plant for an approximate sum of

us$450m. in december 2013, after the works fell into delay, jaguar

terminated the epc contract, and engaged other contractors to complete the

works.




3 in january 2014, jaguar commenced arbitral proceedings against cmnc (“the

arbitration”) under the epc contract, and claimed, amongst other reliefs,

the cost of completing the plant (“the etc claim”). the substantive dispute

between the parties centred on the quantum of the etc claim, and the

parties’ preparations for the arbitration focused on the production of

contracts, invoices and other supporting documents evidencing the costs of

completion, as well as the preparation of expert reports on the issue of

quantum.




4 broadly speaking, the procedural issues raised in relation to the

production of documents fell into three categories. the first concerned

restrictions placed on the disclosure of sensitive documents, which, cmnc

submitted, had severely hindered its ability to assess and therefore

address jaguar’s case on the quantum of jaguar’s etc claim. in this regard,

jaguar had sought to withhold disclosure of documents containing

information identifying its post-termination contractors on the basis that

cmnc might misuse that information to interfere with the ongoing work to

complete the plant. in september 2014, the tribunal ordered that the

sensitive documents be produced on an “attorneys’ eyes only” basis (“the

aeo order”), meaning that sensitive documents would only be disclosed to

cmnc’s external counsel and expert witnesses, and not to its employees

(subject to cmnc’s right to apply for disclosure). this was superseded less

than a month later by the redaction ruling, under which jaguar would

disclose the sensitive documents to cmnc’s employees, albeit with any

information identifying jaguar’s contractors redacted. the redaction ruling

was itself subsequently modified by a procedural order relieving jaguar of

the obligation to redact and disclose (to cmnc’s employees) documents

pertaining to claims with a value of less than us$100,000. these

restrictions (the aeo order, as modified by the redaction ruling and the

subsequent procedural order) were subsequently lifted in march 2015;

sensitive documents were thereafter disclosed to cmnc’s employees without

restriction.




5 the second concerned cmnc’s access to project documents documenting the

work cmnc had completed before jaguar’s termination of the epc contract

(“the construction documents”), which was necessary so that cmnc might

value the completed work, and thereby assess and challenge cmnc’s claim for

the cost of completing the work that remained uncompleted. according to

cmnc, it lost access to these documents after it was forced to leave the

work site following the termination of the epc contract.




6 the third concerned jaguar’s rolling production of documents evidencing

the cost of completion (“the costs documents”). over the course of the

arbitration, jaguar produced four tranches of documents corresponding to

four updates to the quantum of its etc claim. the first tranche of

documents was produced in february 2015, and the fourth and final tranche

was produced on 5 june 2015. in the present proceedings, cmnc challenged

both the propriety of allowing jaguar to continually produce the documents,

as well as the manner in which they were produced. on the former point,

cmnc contended that the tribunal’s failure to put an earlier stop to the

continual updates to the quantum of jaguar’s etc claim resulted in cmnc not

having sufficient time to prepare its response. on the latter point, cmnc

argued that its difficulties were compounded by the disorganised and

haphazard manner in which the documents were produced.




7 according to cmnc, the tribunal’s mismanagement of the arbitration (in

the three aforementioned aspects) made it impossible for it to promptly

prepare and file critical lay and expert evidence addressing the quantum of

the etc claim. in particular, these difficulties meant that a key

responsive expert report prepared by cmnc’s quantum expert (“the gurnham

responsive report”) was filed out of time, and was therefore not properly

considered by the tribunal, in breach of cmnc’s right to be heard under art

18 of the uncitral model law on international commercial arbitration (“the

model law”), rendering the award liable to be set aside under, amongst

others, art 34(2)(a)(ii) of the model law and s 24(b) of

the international arbitration act (cap 143a, 2002 rev ed) (“iaa”).




8 the high court judge (“the judge”) dismissed cmnc’s application to set

aside the award. the judge rejected cmnc’s submission that the tribunal’s

management of the process of document disclosure was a breach of cmnc’s

right to be heard, and held, in any case, that cmnc did not suffer any

prejudice that justified setting aside the award.



the court’s decision 



9 the court of appeal dismissed cmnc’s appeal, and declined to set aside

the award on grounds of breach of natural justice.




10 the court observed that the right to be heard – which refers to each

party’s right to present its case and respond to the case against it – was

a fundamental rule of natural justice enshrined in art 18 of the model law.

however, the art 18 right to a “full opportunity” of presenting one’s case

was not an unlimited one, and was impliedly limited by considerations of

reasonableness and fairness. what constituted a “full opportunity” was a

contextual inquiry to be undertaken within the specific context of the

particular facts and circumstances of each case. the proper approach for

the court to take was to ask itself if what the tribunal did (or decided

not to do) falls within the range of what a reasonable and fair-minded

tribunal in those circumstances might have done. in undertaking this

exercise, the court must put itself in the shoes of the tribunal, and this

meant that (i) the tribunal’s decisions could only be assessed by reference

to what was known to and brought to the attention of the tribunal at the

material time, and (ii) the court would accord a margin of deference to the

tribunal in matters of procedure and would not intervene simply because it

might have done things differently (at [104]).




11 the court dismissed cmnc’s contention that the tribunal’s management of

the disclosure of sensitive documents was so unfair as to constitute a

breach of natural justice. the imposition of the aeo order was not without

basis – on the evidence that had been placed before it, the tribunal’s

conclusion that the possibility of misuse of the sensitive documents gave

rise to “serious concern” was an entirely reasonable one. the fact that the

aeo order adversely affected cmnc’s ability to prepare its case was not

fatal to its legality – the aeo order was intended by the tribunal to

strike a balance between jaguar’s interest in confidentiality and cmnc’s

interest in access for the preparation of its case, and necessarily

represented a compromise between jaguar’s and cmnc’s interests. the court

further noted that, in any case, any unfairness occasioned by the aeo order

was substantially mitigated following the redaction ruling, under which

redacted versions of the sensitive documents were disclosed to cmnc’s

employees (at [111], [113] and    [116]).




12 the court did not accept cmnc’s submission that it had been prejudiced

by the tribunal’s failure to order jaguar to disclose the construction

documents. first, cmnc never requested the production of the construction

documents for the purpose of preparing its case. second, cmnc’s own filings

in the arbitration suggested that it had been perfectly able to assess the

value of its pre-termination work with reasonable accuracy (at    [124] and [125]).




13 the court rejected cmnc’s contention that the tribunal had denied it its

right to be heard in relation to its belated submission of the gurnham

responsive report. there was no basis to impeach the tribunal’s decision to

allow jaguar to continue producing the costs documents until 5 june 2015;

the tribunal had accounted for cmnc’s interest in addressing those

documents by granting it an extension of time for the filing of the gurnham

responsive report to 18 june 2015 in the exact terms sought by cmnc in its

request for relief. the tribunal’s decision not to subsequently grant cmnc

a second extension of time was not unfair or unreasonable; there was

nothing unusual about the volume of the final tranche of documents produced

on 5 june 2015, and even if there were, cmnc ought to have raised its

request for an extension immediately after the documents were produced on 5

june 2015, but did not do so until some twelve days later, on the eve of

the deadline (at [131], [132],    [134], [140] and [141]).




14 the court considered that the tribunal’s direction that jaguar    need not address the material belatedly filed by cmnc should be

distinguished from a direction that jaguar must not do so. the

former direction left it open to jaguar to deal with the material to the

extent it was able, and left it open to the tribunal, in that light, to

consider the material and give it such weight as it deems appropriate. in

any case, even if the tribunal’s direction could be read as a    de facto exclusion of the material belatedly filed by cmnc, such

an exclusion was well within the competence of the tribunal to order, and

was not unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances (at    [148], [149] and [151]).




15 the court found cmnc’s complaint that the tribunal had failed to

consider the allegedly disorganised and haphazard production of the costs

documents in its management of the arbitration to be without basis. in

assessing whether the tribunal had acted unfairly, it was of crucial

importance that the court examine what exactly the tribunal had been told

about the alleged difficulties that the complaining party faced. in this

regard, cmnc did not mention jaguar’s allegedly disorganised and haphazard

production of documents in its requests to the tribunal for extensions of

time for the filing of the gurnham responsive report. it was not until

after the extended deadlines had lapsed that cmnc informed the tribunal of

these alleged difficulties in its application to belatedly admit the

gurnham responsive report (at [159]).




16 the court rejected cmnc’s submission that the cumulative effect of the

tribunal’s management of the arbitration resulted in the arbitration

becoming hopelessly and irretrievably lost. cmnc never said that it

considered the arbitration irretrievably lost (or, alternatively, that the

scheduled evidentiary hearing could not proceed). on the contrary, cmnc

had, by its continued engagement as a party in the arbitration,

consistently expressed its intention to forge ahead with the main

evidentiary hearing. if indeed cmnc had believed that proceeding with the

hearing in july 2015 was impossible, it was incumbent on cmnc to bring home

its concern to the tribunal. not only was this not done, cmnc persisted in

maintaining that it wished to press on with the july 2015 hearing. this put

the lie to cmnc’s submission that the tribunal had conducted the

arbitration in breach of its due process rights (at [165],     [171] and [172]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.