supreme court of singapore



28 february 2020



case summary


han fang guan v public prosecutor 

[2020] sgca 11





criminal appeal no 31 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh

menon):





outcome: coa overturns the appellant’s conviction and sentence on

a capital drug charge, and adjourns the case pending submissions from the

prosecution on whether the existing charge should be amended.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· to sustain a conviction on a charge of attempting to possess controlled

drugs for the purpose of trafficking under s 5(1)(a) read with s

5(2) and s 12 of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed), the

prosecution has to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused person:

(a) intended to possess the drugs in question and knew the nature of the

drugs; and (b) intended to traffic in those drugs: at [33]

.




· whether an attempt to commit an offence that could not possibly have been

consummated in the circumstances (an “impossible attempt”) amounts to a

criminal attempt should be assessed through a two-stage framework. at the

first stage, the court examines whether there was a specific intention to

commit a criminal act. if so, then at the second stage, the court examines

whether there were sufficient acts by the accused person in furtherance of

that intention. a conviction may only be arrived at if the answer to this

is “yes”: at [108].



introduction



1 the appellant, han fang guan (“han”), claimed trial to a capital charge

of attempting to possess one bundle containing not less than 18.62g of

diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking, an offence under s 5(1)(    a) read with s 5(2) and s 12 of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185,

2008 rev ed) (“mda”). following a six-day trial, the high court judge (“the

judge”) found that the charge against han was made out and convicted him.

as han was not issued a certificate of substantive assistance by the public

prosecutor and the judge found that he was not a mere courier, the

mandatory death sentence was imposed on him. han appealed against his

conviction and sentence.



background to the appeal



2 sometime before 2 march 2016, han contacted his drug supplier in

malaysia, one “lao ban”, to place an order for drugs. on the night of 1

march 2016, one khor chong seng (“khor”), who was tried jointly with han,

collected two motorcycle helmets containing several bundles of drugs from

lao ban in malaysia. on 2 march 2016, at about 12.10am, while entering

singapore through woodlands checkpoint, khor was stopped and searched by

officers from the central narcotics bureau (“cnb”). the cnb officers found

a total of seven bundles of controlled drugs on khor: (a) three large

bundles wrapped in black tape, each of which contained diamorphine; (b) one

small bundle wrapped in black tape, which contained methamphetamine; and

(c) three bundles wrapped with transparent tape, each of which contained

nimetazepam tablets.




3 khor informed the cnb officers that he had been tasked to deliver the

drugs to recipients in singapore, and agreed to assist the cnb officers in

a follow-up operation against the intended drug recipients. shortly after

2.00am on 2 march 2016, lao ban called khor and instructed him to deliver

one yellow bundle to “t”, two yellow bundles to “99” and the rest to “ah

ken”. lao ban also told khor to collect $3,600 from t. at 2.44am, lao ban

called khor again and informed khor that he would ask t to call khor. at

2.47am, han called khor and introduced himself as t. subsequently, over

four phone calls between 4.02am and 4.40am, han and khor made arrangements

to meet at toa payoh. a cnb officer assumed the place of khor and travelled

to the designated meeting place in a taxi. after the cnb officer confirmed

han’s identity from within the taxi, han was arrested. he was searched, and

$3,600 in cash was found on him.




4 in the six statements recorded after his arrest, han’s position was that

the $3,600 found on him at the time of his arrest was meant for gambling,

and that he had ordered ketamine and “ice” (a street name for

methamphetamine), and not diamorphine, from lao ban. this was the crux of

han’s defence at the trial. at the trial, han also said that if someone had

arrived with the drugs that he had ordered, he would have used the money

intended for gambling to pay for the drugs.




5 the judge convicted han as she found that the prosecution had proved

beyond a reasonable doubt that han: (a) intended to possess a bundle of

drugs containing not less than 18.62g of diamorphine (bundle “d1b”); (b)

intended to traffic in those drugs; and (c) had undertaken steps towards

the commission of the offence, such that it might be said that he had

“embarked on the crime proper”. as han did not adduce any evidence to show

that he was a mere courier and was not issued a certificate of substantive

assistance by the public prosecutor, the alternative sentencing regime was

not available to him. the judge thus imposed the mandatory death sentence

on him.




6 on appeal, han submitted that the judge did not accord sufficient weight

to his defence that there could have been a mix-up in the drug orders as he

had ordered ketamine and ice, and not diamorphine, from lao ban. han

highlighted that lao ban’s instructions to khor were for him to be given

“one yellow bundle”, but the bundle in respect of which he was charged was

a black bundle. in addition, han submitted that the acts undertaken by him

were insufficient to satisfy the threshold to establish the    actus reus of the offence charged, and that there was insufficient

evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he intended to traffic in

the diamorphine contained in d1b.



the court of appeal’s decision



7 the court of appeal (“the court”) held that to sustain han’s conviction

on the charge, the prosecution would have to prove beyond a reasonable

doubt that han: (a) intended to possess the drugs in d1b, which contained

not less than 18.62g of diamorphine, and knew that d1b contained

diamorphine; and (b) intended to traffic in those drugs: at    [33].




8 the court found that there was a reasonable doubt as to whether han had

ordered diamorphine from lao ban. in the critical phone conversation

between khor and lao ban shortly after 2.00am on 2 march 2016, lao ban

repeatedly referred to the bundle that he intended han to receive as a “    yellow bundle” [emphasis added]. yet, d1b, the bundle eventually

attributed to han in the charge, was a black bundle. further, at

the time of this phone conversation between khor and lao ban, khor was in a

car belonging to the cnb. it appeared from the evidence that the bundles of

drugs seized from khor were within sight of the cnb officer in the car who

directed khor and listened in on this phone conversation (“ssi pang”). it

would thus have been obvious to ssi pang that none of the drug bundles

corresponded to lao ban’s reference to yellow bundles. yet, ssi pang did

not instruct khor to clarify with lao ban what he meant when he referred to

yellow bundles, but instead presumed that lao ban was referring to the big

black bundles. as such, the prosecution’s case that han had ordered

diamorphine from lao ban essentially rested on: (a) ssi pang’s    interpretation of lao ban’s instructions, despite it being

apparent that there was a discrepancy between those instructions and the

physical reality presented by the bundles in question; and (b) ssi pang’s

decision not to instruct khor to resolve the discrepancy with lao

ban, but to proceed instead on the basis of presuming what lao ban

must have meant: at [35], [37]–    [38] and [43]–[48].




9 further, the prosecution’s case was that all the three bundles that lao

ban referred to as “yellow bundles” were identical and were referred to

interchangeably. the court accepted that all these bundles contained

diamorphine, and two of them were meant for 99. the court pointed out,

however, that there was no evidence that the two bundles meant for 99 were    intended to contain diamorphine, and the prosecution did not call

99 to testify as such even though it was well within the prosecution’s

control to lead such evidence. the court indicated that had such evidence

been led, it might well have come to a different view as to whether there

was a reasonable doubt that han had ordered diamorphine from lao ban: at    [49].




10 in addition, the court found that han had consistently stated that he

had not ordered diamorphine from lao ban, but had instead ordered ketamine

and ice. significantly, han made this claim even before he was aware of the

record of the phone conversations between khor and lao ban (in particular,

the critical phone conversation shortly after 2.00am on 2 march 2016),

which would have indicated the possibility of a mix-up in the drug orders,

and his defence was consistent with the objective evidence presented by

these phone conversations: at [50]–[54].




11 for the foregoing reasons, the court found that the prosecution had not

proved beyond a reasonable doubt that han intended to possess the

diamorphine contained in d1b, and acquitted han of the charge against him

as it currently stood: at [55].




12 the court held that it remained necessary to consider whether the charge

should be amended to one that han attempted to possess some other drugs for

the purpose of trafficking, given that the essence of his defence was that

he had ordered ketamine and ice instead of diamorphine. to address this, it

was necessary to consider the circumstances under which criminal liability

could attach to attempts to commit offences that could not possibly have

been consummated in the circumstances (“impossible attempts”). this issue

arose because there was no possibility of han consummating the primary

offence of possessing ketamine and ice for the purpose of trafficking,

given that khor never had any bundles containing the amount of ketamine and

ice allegedly ordered by han: at [56]–    [57].




13 after examining the text, the origins and the context of s 12 of the

mda, the court laid down a two-stage framework for dealing with cases

involving impossible attempts. at the first stage of this framework, the

court would examine whether there was a specific intention to commit a

criminal act. the focus of the inquiry here was on the act that the accused

person specifically intended to do and whether that intended act was

criminal, either on its face or because of some mistaken belief harboured

by the accused person. if the latter question were answered in the

affirmative, then at the second stage of the framework, the court would

examine whether there were sufficient acts by the accused person in

furtherance of the specific intention to commit the criminal act found at

the first stage. the inquiry here was directed at whether there were

sufficient acts to reasonably corroborate the presence of that intention

and demonstrate substantial movement towards its fulfilment. a conviction

could only be arrived at if the answer to this was “yes”: at    [108].




14 in the circumstances, the court allowed han’s appeal on the charge as it

currently stood and acquitted han of that charge. the court adjourned the

matter pending submissions from the prosecution on whether the charge

should be amended to one of attempting to possess ketamine and ice for the

purpose of trafficking. the court indicated that if the prosecution were to

so contend, it would have to hear han on the proposed amended charge as

well as on whether he intended to contest it; and if he did not intend to

contest it, the court would have to hear the parties on the question of

sentence. the court gave directions for the parties to file their

respective submissions on these matters, and ordered that han remain in

custody pending the next hearing before the court: at    [118].



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.