supreme court of singapore



12 february 2020



case summary




senda international capital ltd v kiri industries ltd




[2020] sgca(i) 01





civil appeal no 23 of 2019




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal judith

prakash):





outcome: coa dismisses appeal against sicc’s decision that no

minority discount should be factored into the valuation of the first

respondent’s shares in the sixth respondent. coa allows appeal in part,

awarding 50% of the costs of sicc suit no 3 of 2017 to the sixth

respondent.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment





    coa emphasises that the appellate court would not disturb a trial

    judge’s exercise of discretion unless the judge erred in some way,

    such as by exercising the discretion while under a mistake of law

    or misapprehension of the facts or by taking into account

    irrelevant factors or failing to take into account relevant

    factors: at [32]




introduction



1 senda international capital ltd (“senda”) was ordered by the singapore

international commercial court (“the sicc”) to buy out kiri industries

ltd’s (“kiri”) shares in dystar global holdings (singapore) pte ltd

(“dystar”). this was senda’s appeal against the sicc’s decision that no

minority discount should be factored into the valuation of kiri’s shares in

dystar.



background to the appeal



2 dystar was the joint venture company between senda, the appellant, and

kiri, the first respondent. in



dystar global holdings (singapore) pte ltd v kiri industries ltd and

others and another suit



[2018] 5 slr 1 (“the main judgment”) and senda


international capital ltd v kiri industries ltd and others and another

appeal



[2019] 2 slr 1 (“the ca judgment”), it was held that kiri had

breached the non-compete and non-solicitation clause in the agreement

governing the conduct of the joint venture, and that senda had engaged in

oppressive conduct. senda was thus ordered to buy out kiri’s shares in

dystar.




3 in    kiri industries ltd v senda international capital ltd and another

[2019] 4 slr 1, the three-judge coram (“the judges”) considering the issue

of whether in the valuation of kiri’s shares for the purposes of the

buy-out a minority discount should be applied held, inter alia,

that no minority discount should be applied as: (a) senda’s oppressive

conduct was directed at worsening kiri’s position as a shareholder so as to

compel it to sell out; and (b) senda’s oppressive conduct was entirely

responsible for the breakdown in the parties’ relationship. in relation to

costs, dystar was awarded 10% of the costs of its claim in sicc suit no 3

of 2017 (“suit 3”), and kiri was awarded full costs on its claim in sicc

suit no 4 of 2017 (“suit 4”). these decisions were made before the    ca judgment was released.




4 on appeal, senda submitted that the judges had erred in disallowing

further evidence on whether a minority discount should be awarded. senda

argued that the court of appeal (in the ca judgment), found

instances of kiri’s breach of the non-compete and non-solicitation clause

in relation to four more customers of dystar, and that contributed to the

breakdown in the parties’ relationship. in response, kiri argued that all

the relevant information were before the judges and adopted the judges’

reasoning for their decision not to order a minority discount.




5 as regards to costs, senda submitted that there should be a discount of a

third of the amount of costs awarded to kiri in suit 4. kiri’s submission

was that the judges’ costs orders for suit 4 were correct since it had

succeeded on its claim for minority oppression. further, dystar submitted

that its costs in suit 3 should be adjusted from 10% to 70% in the light of

the ca judgment, which held that kiri had breached the non-compete

and non-solicitation clause in relation to four more customers of dystar.

kiri agreed to an increase in dystar’s costs, but argued that it should be

minimal.



the court’s decision



6 the court of appeal held that as the issues on appeal related to the

judges’ exercise of discretion, the court would not disturb the judges’

decisions unless they had erred in some way, such as by exercising the

discretion while under a mistake of law or misapprehension of the facts or

by taking into account irrelevant factors or failing to take into account

mandatory relevant factors. an appellate court would not upset the decision

of a lower court just because they were inclined to exercise the discretion

differently: at [32].




7 the matters on which senda sought to adduce further evidence were within

the issues canvassed at trial and were dealt with in the    main judgment: at [34]. the court of appeal found

no error in the assessment of the facts by the judges. the judges were

aware of kiri’s breach of the non-compete and non-solicitation clause in

relation to fotl, one of dystar’s customers, and held that it did not

justify the imposition of a minority discount: at [36]–    [37].




8 the court of appeal held that the four additional instances of breach on

kiri’s part established on appeal made no difference to the overall

circumstances of the case to justify an order of a minority discount. this

was because senda’s oppressive conduct was entirely responsible for the

breakdown in the parties’ relationship, and was directed at worsening the

position of kiri as shareholder so as to compel it to sell out. there was

no evidence that kiri’s competitive conduct contributed to the breakdown in

the parties’ relationship. kiri’s misconduct would also be accounted for in

the damages that kiri would have to pay to dystar for its breach of the

non-compete and non-solicitation clause: at [38]–    [39] and [46].




9 the court of appeal rejected senda’s submission that a minority discount

should be applied for kiri’s lack of management participation. it was

senda’s position in the trial that kiri was only expected to play a limited

role in dystar’s management. further, kiri played an active role in

management up to 2012, provided critical support to dystar, and it was

senda that excluded kiri from management. in any event, after the buy-out,

full ownership of dystar (and hence its value) would be credited to senda:

at [42]–[44]



10 the court of appeal held that there was no reason to interfere with the

judges’ decision that kiri was entitled to its full costs in suit 4, as

kiri had succeeded on the fundamental issue in the suit, ie, that

it was oppressed by senda. the court of appeal awarded 50% of the costs of

dystar’s claim in suit 3 to account for the fact that four more instances

of breach of the non-compete and non-solicitation clause by kiri were

established on appeal: at [49]–[50]


 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.