supreme court of singapore



7 february 2020



case summary


anil singh gurm v j s yeh & co and another

[2020] sgca 05





civil appeal no 164 of 2018 



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal judith

prakash):





outcome: coa allows appeal against decision denying leave for a

foreign witness to give evidence via video link.






facts





1 in 2006, mr tejinder singh sekhon (“mr sekhon”), a foreign national,

unsuccessfully sought to purchase a local residential property in singapore

(“the property”), having been unable to obtain approval from the land

dealings approval unit to purchase the property in his own name. in october

2006, mr sekhon asked his cousin, mr anil singh gurm (“the appellant”) if

he would purchase the property as mr sekhon’s nominee. the appellant agreed

on condition that this arrangement would not expose him to any risk, legal

or otherwise.




2 mr sekhon sought the advice of ms yasmin binte abdullah (“the second

respondent”) a solicitor employed by j s yeh & co (“the first

respondent”), a local law firm. according to the appellant, the second

respondent advised mr sekhon that it was acceptable for the appellant to

hold the property on his behalf. she later confirmed this at a meeting with

the appellant and mr sekhon. the respondents disagree that such advice was

given.




3 in december 2006, the appellant acquired the property in his own name. mr

sekhon relocated to australia in may 2012 and the property was sold shortly

after. in december 2012, the commercial affairs department of the singapore

police force commenced investigations into the purchase of the property. in

january 2015, the appellant was charged with an offence under the

residential property act (cap 274, 2009 rev ed) for his role in the

purchase of the property as the nominee/trustee of mr sekhon. he claimed

trial and successfully sought an adjournment of his criminal trial on the

basis that he had commenced a negligence claim (“suit 580”) against the

respondents and it would be more expedient for this to be determined first.




4 on 4 april 2018, the appellant filed summons no 1655 of 2018 (“sum

1655”), to seek leave for mr sekhon to testify in suit 580 via video link.

mr sekhon did not want to travel to singapore to give evidence in person as

he wanted to avoid possible prosecution for his role in the acquisition of

the property. the high court judge (“the judge”) dismissed sum 1655. he

granted the appellant leave to appeal against his decision.






background to the appeal



5 the judge dismissed sum 1655 for two reasons. first, mr sekhon was merely

unwilling, not “unable” (per s 62a(2)(a) of the evidence act (cap

97, 1997 rev ed)), to testify in singapore. the concept of inability under

s 62a(2)(a) only extended to situations where a witness was

incapable of attending local proceedings for reasons beyond their own

control or doing. a broader interpretation would dilute the general rule

that witnesses are to testify in person. this in itself provided sufficient

reason to dismiss sum 1655. second, granting mr sekhon leave would be

tantamount to a judicial endorsement of his attempt to avoid justice. in

the light of these findings, the judge considered it unnecessary to decide

whether either party would be prejudiced if sum 1655 was allowed or

dismissed.



the court’s grounds of decision



6 the court of appeal found that a textual analysis of ss 62a and 62a(2),

the latter providing specifically for evidence to be given by witnesses

abroad, reveals that their purpose is to provide the court with a broad

discretion to receive oral evidence by video link in civil proceedings (at    [34]–[35], [37]).

section 62a(2)(a) is not meant to operate as a fetter on this

discretion and is not a requirement that must be satisfied in every case

(at [36]).




7 the court agreed with the judge that the plain and ordinary meaning of

“unable” in s 62a(2)(a) implied a lack of choice on the witness’s

part (at [30], [38]). further, mr sekhon

was not unable to give evidence but was merely unwilling to do so (at    [39]). the court disagreed, however, that mr sekhon’s

unwillingness to travel was by itself determinative of an application for

leave under s 62a (at [41]). on a holistic assessment of

the case, the judge had failed to give appropriate weight to a number of

factors pointing in favour of leave:




(i) mr sekhon was not a party to suit 580. the court should generally be

more willing to grant leave to a witness who is not party to the litigation

and has no control over it (at [53]), the reason being

that non-party witnesses have no control over the venue of proceedings (at    [49]). if the court was capable of assisting litigants by

compelling witnesses in singapore to testify, there was no reason why it

should be less willing to assist litigants whose witnesses, through no

fault of the litigants, refused to come to singapore (at    [52]).




(ii) mr sekhon did not stand to derive any tangible benefit from suit 580,

whether directly or indirectly (at [56]).




(iii) the appellant could neither subpoena mr sekhon nor convince him to

travel to singapore (at [59]). the fact that a party has

no control over a witness who refuses to travel to singapore, should

generally weigh in favour of leave being granted (at [57]

).




(iv) mr sekhon was an important witness who could give direct evidence on

the substance of the second respondent’s legal advice to both himself and

the appellant (at [62]–[63]).




(v) while the appellant would have suffered prejudice if leave were

refused, the respondents would have suffered no prejudice if leave were

granted. any additional expense that would be incurred by the respondents

by virtue of granting leave could be compensated for by an appropriate

costs order (at [70]). the court was not persuaded that

the judge’s assessment of mr sekhon’s credibility would be hindered if he

was not testifying in person (at [71]). in any case, any

prejudice to the respondents paled in comparison to the severe prejudice

that the appellant would suffer if he was denied the opportunity to adduce

the evidence of mr sekhon (at [72]).




(vi) in the interest of preserving and upholding its authority and dignity,

the court would be unlikely to exercise its discretion to allow video link

evidence from overseas witnesses who seek a collateral advantage or are

disrespectful of its authority. the integrity of the court’s processes must

be protected (at [74]). in the present case, there was no

evidence that the appellant or mr sekhon were pursuing a collateral purpose

through sum 1655 or suit 580 (at [75]).




8 the court was satisfied that these factors displaced the weight of the

fact that mr sekhon was unwilling rather than unable to travel to

singapore. mr sekhon should have been granted leave to testify via video

link (at [76]). the court added that these factors were

not an exhaustive list of the considerations relevant to the exercise of

the court’s discretion under s 62a(2) (at [77]).




9 the court disagreed that granting mr sekhon leave would be contrary to

public policy. there were two relevant policy considerations: (i) the

appellant’s right of access to justice, ie, his entitlement to put

forward his best possible case and relevant evidence in support thereof;

and (ii) the court should not facilitate a person’s attempt to evade

justice (at [83]–[84]). in the court’s

view, mr sekhon was not attempting to evade justice. he left singapore

months before the commencement of investigations into the purchase of the

property and since then, had not been charged with any offence. further,

given singapore’s extradition arrangements with australia, granting him

leave to testify via video link could not be seen as providing him with any

assistance to evade justice (at [86]).








this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.