supreme court of singapore
 
27 december 2019
case summary
bna v bnb and another [2019] sgca 84  
civil appeal no 159 of 2018
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal steven chong):
outcome: the court of appeal, applying the framework for determining the proper law of an arbitration agreement in bcy v bcz [2017] 3 slr 375, holds that shanghai, not singapore, is the seat of the arbitration, and allows the appeal. 
pertinent and significant points of the judgment:
·         court of appeal endorses the approach that the phrase “arbitration in shanghai” is naturally read as a reference to shanghai as the seat of the arbitration: see [65]–[69]. 
·         court of appeal affirms that the parol evidence rule and its exceptions apply to exclude the evidence of the parties’ pre-contractual negotiations for the purposes of interpreting the arbitration agreement, where the evidence was sought to be introduced only at the jurisdictional challenge before the high court, and not in the proceedings before the arbitral tribunal: see [76]–[80]. 
background to the appeal
1              the dispute arose in relation to an agreement (the “takeout agreement”) between the appellant and the respondents. the appellant was the buyer, and the respondents were the sellers, of certain products under the takeout agreement. the dispute arose when the appellant failed to make the necessary payments under the takeout agreement. 
2              the takeout agreement contained a dispute resolution provision in art 14: 
article 14: disputes
14.1 this agreement shall be governed by the laws of the people’s republic of china.
14.2 with respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this agreement, the [p]arties shall initially attempt in good faith to resolve all disputes amicably between themselves. if such negotiations fail, it is agreed by both parties that such disputes shall be finally submitted to the singapore international arbitration centre (siac) for arbitration in shanghai, which will be conducted in accordance with its arbitration rules. the arbitration award shall be final and binding on both [p]arties.
 
the arbitral proceedings
3              the respondents initiated arbitration proceedings administered by the singapore international arbitration centre (“siac”), which duly appointed a three-person arbitral tribunal. the appellants challenged the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal, on the grounds that the proper law of the arbitration agreement was the law of people’s republic of china (“prc”), which law rendered the arbitration agreement invalid, and entailed that the dispute had to be litigated in the prc courts instead. this argument was mounted on the basis that the law of the substantive contract, the takeout agreement, was expressly chosen to be prc law, and that the law of the seat too, was prc law, given that shanghai was provided to be the seat of the arbitration. prc law, however, would have invalidated the arbitration agreement, because prc law did not allow a foreign arbitral institution such as the siac to administer a prc-seated arbitration, and also because prc law did not permit a foreign arbitral institution such as the siac to administer a purely domestic dispute such as this. 
4              the arbitral tribunal arrived at a split decision on the question of its jurisdiction, with the majority holding that the tribunal had jurisdiction. the majority considered that it would have made no commercial or logical sense for parties to have intentionally selected a law to govern the arbitration agreement which would then invalidate it. it therefore took the view that shanghai was not the seat, but merely the venue of the arbitration. 
5              the dissenting arbitrator took the view that shanghai was the seat of the arbitration, and thus prc law was the law of the seat. given that prc law was also the law of the substantive contract, prc law was the proper law of the arbitration agreement. prc law did not allow this dispute to be referred to arbitration, thus the tribunal lacked jurisdiction to hear the dispute. 
the jurisdictional challenge in the high court 
6              the appellant applied to the high court for a declaration that the tribunal lacked jurisdiction to hear the dispute. the judge granted the application. 
7              the judge considered that the proper framework to be applied to determine the proper law of the arbitration agreement was the framework set out by the high court in bcy v bcz [2017] 3 slr 357 (“bcy”). on the first step of the framework, the judge ruled that the parties had not made an express choice of proper law of the arbitration agreement; simply providing in art 14.1 that the proper law of the takeout agreement was prc law was insufficient to similarly render that an express choice of proper law for the arbitration agreement in art 14.2. 
8              the judge then turned to the second stage of the bcy framework, which concerned the parties’ implied choice of proper law for the arbitration agreement. the judge found that singapore was the seat of the arbitration agreement. the parties had incorporated the arbitration rules of the singapore international arbitration centre (5th edition, 2013) (“the siac rules”) as the relevant arbitral rules, and rule 18.1 of the siac rules provided that in the absence of the parties’ express provision, the default seat would be singapore. this meant that art 14.2 made reference to two geographical locations: singapore and shanghai. given that rule 18.1 explicitly provided that the seat of an arbitration would, absent the parties’ express selection, be singapore, the judge considered that the phrase “arbitration in shanghai” referred to shanghai as the venue of the arbitration instead. this reading was buttressed by the fact that singapore, but not shanghai, was a law district, and thus the reference to singapore was better understood as a reference to singapore being the seat of the arbitration. 
9              the judge accepted that prc law, as the law of the substantive contract into which the arbitration agreement was integrated, would serve as the starting point of the parties’ implied choice of proper law. but he considered that singapore law, as the law of the seat, would displace that implied choice, because it was likely that the parties’ arbitration agreement would be invalid if prc law was its proper law. thus, singapore law was the proper law of the arbitration agreement. 
10           the judge gave leave to appeal to the court of appeal. 
the court of appeal’s decision
11           the court of appeal agreed with the judge that the parties had not made an express choice of law for the arbitration agreement in art 14.2 of the takeout agreement: at [56]. 
12           on the second stage of the bcy framework, the parties accepted that the starting point was that the governing law of the takeout agreement would similarly be the governing law of the arbitration agreement. however, this starting point could be displaced if the law of the seat materially differed from that starting point: at [62]–[63]. 
the meaning of the phrase “arbitration in shanghai” 
13           the phrase “arbitration in shanghai” had a material bearing on whether there was anything to displace the starting point that prc law, as the law governing the takeout agreement, also governed the arbitration agreement. this was because it had important implications as to the seat of the arbitration agreement: at [63]. 
14           the judge had interpreted “arbitration in shanghai” as a reference to shanghai being merely the venue of the arbitration agreement. the court of appeal disagreed. the judge could only have arrived at that interpretation by first identifying the seat to be singapore on the basis of rule 18.1 of the siac rules, but that identification depended in turn on the parties not having expressly chosen a seat of the arbitration. the court of appeal considered, however, that the natural meaning of the phrase “arbitration in shanghai” was that shanghai was the seat of the arbitration. the court of appeal observed that where parties had specified only one geographical location in an arbitration agreement, and particularly where the choice had been expressed as “arbitration in [that location]”, that ought most naturally to be construed as a reference to the parties’ choice of seat. this approach was confirmed by a number of cases and academic commentaries that had dealt with the issue in the same way: at [64]–[69]. 
whether contrary indicia pointed to shanghai being anything other than the seat
15           the court of appeal was prepared to accept that contrary indicia could displace the natural reading that “arbitration in shanghai” in art 14.2 meant that shanghai was intended to be the seat of the arbitration. the respondents’ counsel pointed to two such indicia: first, the background contextual material of the parties’ pre-contractual negotiations and their concern that the arbitration be seated in a neutral forum, ie, singapore; second, the potentially invalidating effects of prc law on the arbitration agreement on the state of prc law as existed at the time the parties entered into the takeout agreement: at [69]–[70].
16           the court of appeal considered that the evidence of the parties’ pre-contractual negotiations could not be admitted to support the respondents’ argument. the court of appeal disagreed with the respondents’ arguments that the parol evidence rule did not apply at all in cases arising out of an arbitration. the parol evidence rule and its exceptions did not apply to proceedings before an arbitrator, but the respondents had only sought to admit the evidence in the jurisdictional challenge before the high court, and not in the proceedings before the arbitrator. the high court, and the court of appeal, were both bound to apply the parol evidence rule and its exceptions: at [76]–[80].
17           the evidence of the parties’ pre-contractual negotiations could not be admitted in this case as it did not relate to a clear or obvious context. the evidence was not reasonably available to all the contracting parties, and was in large part the respondents’ witness’ subjective appreciation of the significance of the phrase “arbitration in shanghai”. in addition, the witness’ own evidence undermined the respondents’ argument that the parties intended to have a neutral forum in which to arbitrate their disputes, because the witness himself attested that he did not understand the concept of the seat of an arbitration: at [83]–[88]. 
18            the respondents’ reliance on the invalidating effect of prc law on the arbitration agreement, as on the state of prc law as existed at the time the parties entered into the takeout agreement, similarly could not form part of the context in construing art 14.2. there was nothing in the evidence to show that the parties were sensitive to the interplay between prc law and the choice of the siac as the administering institution, much less the invalidating effect of this particular combination of choices: at [90]. 
19           the court of appeal also observed that the reasoning that singapore, but not shanghai, was a law district, did not assist the respondents. the court observed that it was common for commercial parties to only specify either a city or country in their arbitration agreements, and thus the reference to shanghai alone was sufficient as a clear reference to a seat, and not a venue: at [92]–[93]. 
20           the sum result was that shanghai was the seat of the arbitration. the natural reading of the phrase “arbitration in shanghai” pointed to shanghai as the seat, and there was no contrary indicia to point away from this natural reading. this in turn meant that the law of the seat, and the parties’ implied choice of proper law of the arbitration agreement, was one and the same: prc law. it followed that prc law was the proper law of the arbitration agreement. hence the question whether the implied choice of prc law as the proper law should be displaced by the law of the seat in order not to nullify the parties’ intention to arbitrate simply did not arise: at [94].
the court’s orders in the appeal
21           the court of appeal allowed the appeal when the parties were before it at the oral hearing on 15 october 2019, but only to the extent that singapore was not the seat. it did not take any concluded view as to whether the tribunal did or did not have jurisdiction: at [96]. 
22           the court of appeal observed that although the limited scope of its decision might seem surprising, in that it might have been thought that a jurisdictional challenge ought naturally to culminate in a decision on the tribunal either having or not having jurisdiction, it was only proper and logical for the court not to express a view as to jurisdiction once it had determined that singapore was not the seat. this was because if singapore was not the seat, any decision of the singapore courts on jurisdiction would not be binding upon the tribunal anyway: at [97]. 
23           in addition, the court’s declaration that shanghai was the seat, without expressing a view as to the tribunal’s jurisdiction, was also consistent with the structure of s 10 of the international arbitration act (cap 143a, 2002 rev ed), which did not require the court to make a positive finding as to jurisdiction either way: at [98]. 
conclusion
24           in summary, shanghai was the seat of the arbitration, and not singapore. the appeal was therefore allowed to that limited extent, without the court of appeal expressing any concluded view as to whether the tribunal did or did not have jurisdiction: at [103]. 
25           the essential point was that the parties’ manifest intention to arbitrate was not to be given effect at all costs. the parties had not only chosen to arbitrate – they chose to arbitrate in a certain way, in a certain place, under the administration of a certain arbitral institution. those all had to be given effect to by a process of construction which critically gave the words of the arbitration agreement their natural meaning, unless there were sufficient contrary indicia to displace that reading. if the result of this process of construction was that the arbitration agreement is unworkable, then the parties would have to live with the consequences of their decision: at [104]. 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.