supreme court of singapore



20 december 2019



case summary




singapore shooting association and others v singapore rifle association



[2019] sgca 83 



civil appeal no 103 of 2018




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh

menon):





outcome: court of appeal allows the appeal in part, and rules that

the respondent’s claim in unlawful means conspiracy fails for lack of

actionable loss or damage, and its application for declaratory relief fails

in the absence of a real controversy.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment:





    the legal fees incurred in investigating, detecting, unravelling

    and/or mitigating a conspiracy cannot constitute actionable loss or

    damage in the tort of unlawful means conspiracy if they are in

    substance the sort of expenses that would be incurred in

    preparation for litigation, and so would be recoverable as costs in

    any action that may be brought. however, such legal fees            may constitute actionable loss or damage if, for

    some reason, they cannot be recovered as costs instead: at            [92]–[98].

    




    the failure to obtain the commissioner of charities’ authorisation

    under s 31(2) of the charities act (cap 37, 2007 rev ed) to pursue

    a particular head of claim or relief bars a claimant from

    presenting that head of claim or relief as part of charity

    proceedings in the high court, unless it clearly falls within the

    scope of authorisation that has already been given: at            [161]–[162].

    




    lawyers have a professional obligation to ensure that a proper

    risk-benefit evaluation is undertaken at each stage of legal

    proceedings. even if a lawyer’s client is prepared to take a matter

    to court and bear the expense of litigation, the lawyer, as an

    officer of the court, nevertheless owes a higher duty to the court

    to assess whether it is in the interests of the administration of

    justice to pursue the matter: at [175] and            [178].

    



background to the appeal





    the first appellant, the singapore shooting association (“ssa”), is

    the national sports association for the sport of shooting and a

    registered charity under the charities act (cap 37, 2007 rev ed)

    (“the charities act”). the second to fourth appellants (“the

    individual defendants”) were ssa council members at the material

    time. the respondent, the singapore rifle association (“sra”), is

    one of the founder members and constituent clubs of ssa.

    




    the dispute arose out of a resolution passed by the ssa council

    purporting to suspend sra’s privileges at the national shooting

    centre (“the nsc”), which ssa had sub-leased from sport singapore

    (“sport sg”) and operated for a period of time. sra brought an

    action (“the present suit”) in the high court for declarations that

    (among other things) the resolution was ultra vires and

    the ssa council had no power to pass such a resolution by circular

    instead of at a meeting. sra also pursued a claim in the tort of

    unlawful means conspiracy against the individual defendants for

    conspiring to cause it damage by procuring the passage of that

    resolution. on its part, ssa counterclaimed against sra for the

    cost of demolishing a shooting range (“the proprietary range”)

    which it alleged had been built illegally by sra at the nsc.

    




    under a “proprietary range agreement” (“the agreement”) entered

    into between ssa and sra in november 2014, it was agreed that sra

    could construct the proprietary range within a specified area of

    the nsc at its own expense for its exclusive use. unknown to sra,

    however, the appellants, in particular, the second appellant (“mr

    vaz”), who was ssa’s president, started complaining to the building

    and construction authority (“bca”) about the construction works in

    september 2015. bca investigated the complaints and found that the

    proprietary range had been erected without the requisite regulatory

    approval. bca thus sent sport sg, as the lessee of the nsc, a

    demolition order on 6 november 2015, ordering the complete

    demolition of the proprietary range by 7 december 2015 (the

    “demolition order”). however, along with the demolition order, bca

    also sent sport sg a separate letter informing sport sg how the

    proprietary range could be regularised if sport sg wished to retain

    it. sport sg forwarded those documents to ssa on 11 november 2015,

    and left it to ssa to decide whether to demolish or to retain the

    proprietary range.

    




    the ssa executive committee, a smaller body within the ssa council,

    resolved to demolish the proprietary range and conveyed that

    decision to sra on 12 november 2015. sra was not told about the

    option of regularising the proprietary range, and found out about

    that option only later, when it reached out to bca as part of its

    efforts to resist the demolition of the proprietary range.

    




    vexed by sra’s actions in resisting the demolition order, mr vaz

    drafted a circular resolution (the “circular resolution”) that

    would have the effect of suspending sra’s privileges at the nsc.

    the resolution was circulated among the ssa council on 16 december

    2015, and a majority consisting of the individual defendants voted

    in favour of it, with the result that it was passed.

    




    in the meantime, ssa had engaged its own contractor to demolish the

    proprietary range. the demolition was completed by 22 january 2016.

    




    on 6 february 2016, sport sg terminated ssa’s sub-lease of the nsc

    with immediate effect after the police seized from the nsc’s

    armouries firearms which were found to have no proper records.

    sport sg resumed control of the nsc, although it appointed ssa as

    its interim managing agent for the nsc subject to various

    conditions.

       


on 6 may 2016, sra commenced the present suit against the

    appellants.

    



the decision below
9.     the high court judge (“the judge”) allowed sra’s application for

declaratory     relief and held that the circular resolution was            ultra vires for three reasons. first,      the ssa council had

no power to suspend the privileges of a member of ssa.      second,

ssa’s constitution did not empower the ssa council to make

decisions      by circular resolution. third, the circular resolution

was passed without sra      having been given a reasonable opportunity

to be heard, and was therefore void for      being in breach of natural

justice.

    
10.     the judge also held that the individual defendants were liable in

the tort of unlawful means conspiracy. the unlawful means was the

ssa council’s passing of the ultra vires circular

resolution, which the individual defendants had collaborated

together to procure with the intention of causing sra damage, and

sra’s damage took the form of the legal fees and disbursements

incurred in investigating, detecting and responding to the

conspiracy.

   
11.     the judge rejected ssa’s counterclaim for an indemnity for the cost

of demolishing the proprietary range. he held that ssa’s loss in

this regard was sustained as a result of its own breach of an

implied term in the agreement that it would use reasonable efforts

to assist sra in obtaining planning and building approval from bca

for the construction of the proprietary range.

    

the court of appeal’s decision





sra’s conspiracy claim against the individual defendants


12.     the court of appeal (“the court”) held that the individual

defendants were not liable in the tort of unlawful means

conspiracy. in arriving at this conclusion, the court applied the

rule that the legal fees incurred in investigating, detecting,

unravelling and/or mitigating a conspiracy could not constitute

actionable loss or damage for the purposes of this tort if they

were in substance the sort of expenses that would be incurred in

preparation for litigation, and so would be recoverable as costs in

any action that might be brought: at [92].

    
13.     there were three reasons for this rule. first, if legal fees that

could be recovered as costs were held to be sufficient to

constitute actionable loss or damage in the tort of conspiracy, the

element of damage would be satisfied in virtually every case where

the litigant pleading conspiracy engaged a lawyer. this would too

readily dilute the requirement that the claimant in an action in

conspiracy must prove that he had suffered loss or damage as a

result of the conspiracy. second, allowing solicitors’ fees that

were recoverable as costs to be recovered as damages instead would

subvert the costs regime put in place to regulate the

recoverability of such fees. third, there was no authority to

support sra’s contention that the legal fees incurred for the

purposes of investigating a conspiracy could constitute actionable

loss or damage in the tort of conspiracy: at            [93]–[96].

    
14.     that said, such legal fees might constitute actionable

loss or damage if, for some reason they could not be

recovered as costs instead. a party who wished to make such an

argument would have to offer cogent proof that its lawyers truly

performed a discrete investigative function, instead of merely

gathering such evidence, facts and information as would typically

precede the giving of legal advice or the commencement of

litigation. it would also be necessary to demonstrate with

sufficient particularity that the time spent on investigating

and/or mitigating the conspiracy, and, hence, the expenditure

incurred, was directly attributable to the conspiracy: at            [97]–[98].

    
15.     in the present case, there was no evidence that the legal fees

which sra had paid its lawyers were for investigative work in

respect of the conspiracy alleged by sra, rather than for advisory

work of the type that solicitors would typically do in preparing

for litigation. sra also could not rely on the expenses incurred by

its council members in relation to the investigation of the

conspiracy as constituting the relevant actionable loss or damage

because: (a) the council members did not appear to have pursued any

investigations on their own; and (b) sra was not obliged to pay its

council members, given that they were volunteers. sra’s claim in

unlawful means conspiracy thus failed because the element of

actionable loss or damage was not made out: at            [103]–[113]. 
sra’s application for declaratory relief
16.     the court held that sra’s application for declaratory relief in

respect of the circular resolution failed because there was no real

controversy underlying the declaratory relief sought by sra at the

time it brought its application. the entire purpose of the circular

resolution was to suspend sra’s privileges at the nsc, as the

relevant part of the circular resolution made clear. but ssa lost

the power to manage and operate the nsc when its sub-lease with

sport sg was terminated on 6 february 2016, well before the present

suit commenced on 6 may 2016. although sport sg gave ssa certain

residual powers to manage the nsc after terminating the sub-lease,

those powers were severely restricted by sport sg’s own conditions.

this meant that ssa was unable to confer on or grant sra any

privileges at the nsc, which correspondingly entailed that it also

could not suspend any such privileges. thus, the real controversy

underlying the declaratory relief sought by sra had been

extinguished by the time the present suit commenced, and

declaratory relief should not have been granted: at            [122]–[131].

    
ssa’s counterclaim for an indemnity 
17.     the court held that ssa was not entitled to an indemnity from sra

for the cost of demolishing the proprietary range. on a natural

reading of cl 10 of the agreement, which required sra to indemnify

and keep indemnified ssa from liabilities which ssa might suffer or

incur “for any death, injury, loss and/or damage caused directly or

indirectly by its activities, including

the activities of its members, employees,

independent contractors, agents, invitees or other permitted

occupier at the [nsc]” [emphasis added], the word “its” therein

could only refer to sra, with the result that sra would indemnify

ssa in respect of all liability and loss that ssa might suffer or

incur as a result of sra’s activities, as only seemed

commercially sensible. in contrast, an absurd result would ensue if

the word “its” was interpreted as referring to ssa instead. in that

event, sra would be required to indemnify ssa for liabilities that

ssa had suffered or incurred as a result of ssa’s            own activities. no evidence was put forward to suggest

that the parties had intended such a result: at            [136]–[137].

   
18.     ssa’s demolition of the proprietary range fell outside the

indemnity in cl 10 as the cost of the demolition did not represent

loss incurred by ssa that was caused by sra’s activities.

ssa acted unilaterally in hiring its own contractor to demolish the

proprietary range even though sra had asked ssa to desist from

doing so. further, to give ssa the benefit of the indemnity in cl

10 would be to allow it essentially to benefit from its own wrong.

ssa knew of the option of regularising the proprietary range when

it was notified of bca’s demolition order, but wilfully concealed

that option from sra; and after sra fortuitously came to know of

that option by its own efforts, ssa refused to meet sra to discuss

regularising the proprietary range: at [138]–[139]

.

    

section 31 of the charities act 
19.     an additional issue relating to s 31 of the charities act arose in

the course of oral argument before the court. the court expressed

its concern that, although the conspiracy claim formed the heart of

the dispute between the parties, the loss that sra had allegedly

suffered as a result of the conspiracy was, on its best case, a sum

of only $63,200, which was well below the monetary threshold for

claims to be commenced in the high court. in response, sra’s

counsel submitted that the dispute had to be litigated in

the high court pursuant to s 31 of the charities act because it

concerned declaratory relief being sought against a charity for

breaches of the charity’s constitution. sra had also obtained the

requisite approval of the commissioner of charities (“the

commissioner”) under s 31(2) of the charities act to commence the

litigation in the high court: at [140]–[141].

   
20.     the court accepted that sra had standing to bring the present suit

as a “person interested in the charity” under s 31(1) of the

charities act. this was because sra had a materially greater

interest than ordinary members of the public in securing the due

administration of ssa, given that: (a) it was a founder member and

constituent club of ssa; and (b) it was seeking declaratory relief

in respect of a resolution which it perceived not only to have been

passed ultra vires ssa’s constitution, but moreover, to

have had the effect of depriving it of certain privileges to which

it considered itself entitled: at [155]–[156].

    
21.     the court found, however, that sra had failed to obtain the

commissioner’s authorisation to bring the conspiracy claim against

the individual defendants. the failure to obtain the commissioner’s

authorisation to pursue a particular head of claim or relief barred

a claimant from presenting that head of claim or relief as part of

charity proceedings in the high court. in the present case, the

authorisation granted by the commissioner had been restricted only

to those claims by sra that formed the subject of its application

for declaratory relief; no authorisation had been sought by or

granted to sra for the conspiracy claim: at            [161]–[165].

   
22.     ssa, too, had failed to obtain the commissioner’s authorisation for

its counterclaim for an indemnity for the cost of demolishing the

proprietary range. the value of the counterclaim was also far below

the monetary threshold for proceedings to be brought in the high

court. thus, the counterclaim, too, could not have supported the

litigation in the high court: at [169].

   
23.     the court further observed that in any event, both sra’s conspiracy

claim and ssa’s counterclaim for an indemnity did not fall within

the ambit of “charity proceedings” as defined in s 31(8) of the

charities act, which proceedings had to be brought in the high

court. the court considered that “charity proceedings” typically

concerned the administration of a charity, as opposed to the

enforcement of common law rights or equitable rights not relating

to the administration of a charity. ssa’s counterclaim for an

indemnity was plainly concerned with the enforcement of its common

law rights, and sra’s conspiracy claim similarly did not concern

the administration of ssa as a charity as it was directed against

the individual defendants only: at [171]–[173].

    
costs
24.     in dealing with the costs of the proceedings, the court took into

account not only the outcome reached on the substantive issues, but

also the disproportionate manner in which it considered this

litigation was run by sra: at [174].

   
25.     the court emphasised that lawyers had a professional obligation to

ensure that a proper risk-benefit evaluation was undertaken at each

stage of legal proceedings. even if a lawyer’s client were prepared

to take a matter to court and bear the expense of litigation, the

lawyer, as an officer of the court, nevertheless owed a higher duty

to the court to assess whether it would be in the interests of the

administration of justice to pursue the matter: at            [175] and [178].

    
26.     the court found that the present litigation was disproportionately

conducted by sra in several ways. first, the conspiracy claim ought

not to have been part of the proceedings in the high court because:

(a) the commissioner had not authorised the bringing of the claim

in the high court; (b) the claim was not even directed at ssa, but

was instead directed only at the individual defendants; (c) the

element of actionable loss or damage was not made out; and (d) most

strikingly, even if the claim had succeeded, the most sra stood to

recover, on its best case, was a sum of $63,200, far below the

threshold for a claim to be mounted in the high court. second, sra

failed to pursue more cost-effective options that it could have

taken, such as seeking an injunction to restrain ssa from acting on

the circular resolution and suspending its privileges at the nsc.

third, although sra ultimately succeeded in defending ssa’s

counterclaim for an indemnity, it failed to pursue a far simpler

means of arguing its case that was available to it: at[176], [179] and            [180].

   
27.     the appellants, on the other hand, had also behaved deplorably. the

genesis of the dispute could be traced to the appellants’ actions

in giving sra the right to build the proprietary range, and then

completely reversing their position by seeking to undermine sra

instead. to that end, mr vaz complained to bca behind sra’s back

about the construction of the proprietary range. after bca issued

the demolition order, the appellants deceptively concealed the

option of regularising the proprietary range from sra; and after

sra found out about that option of its own accord, the appellants

refused to co-operate in the regularisation process in any way

whatsoever, and instead proceeded unilaterally to demolish the

proprietary range. the court of appeal registered its strong

disapproval of and dismay at the appellants’ conduct: at            [181]–[182].

   
28.     the court considered that the appellants’ actions in engendering

this dispute and the way the litigation was conducted by sra

reflected appallingly on both parties. it therefore ruled that

there would be no order as to the costs of the proceedings both in

the appeal and in the high court, and that each party would bear

its own costs: at [183].

    
29.     in addition, the court indicated that it was minded to require mr

vaz personally to indemnify and hold ssa harmless in respect of any

and all legal costs it had incurred or might become liable for as a

result of the proceedings. it was also minded to make an order

disallowing or limiting the costs recoverable by sra’s solicitors

from sra. the court stated that before it made any orders to such

effect, it would afford mr vaz and sra’s solicitors the opportunity

to make written submissions explaining why the respective orders

ought not to be made: at [184]–            [186].

    

conclusion
30.     in summary, the appeal was allowed in part, in that sra’s claim in

unlawful means conspiracy failed for lack of actionable damage and

its application for declaratory relief failed in the absence of a

real controversy. however, the appeal was dismissed where ssa’s

counterclaim for an indemnity for the cost of demolishing the

proprietary range was concerned: at [187].

  
31.     given the disproportionate manner in which the litigation was

conducted by sra as well as the appellants’ deplorable conduct,

there was no order as to the costs of the proceedings both in the

appeal and in the high court, and each party was to bear its own

costs. in addition, further costs orders might be made by the court

after it had heard from mr vaz and sra’s solicitors respectively:

at [188].

    
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the

court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the

court’s judgment.