supreme court of singapore



19 december 2019



case summary


pex international pte ltd v lim seng chye and another 

[2019] sgca 82




civil appeals nos 181 and 183 of 2019





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal steven

chong):





outcome: coa clarifies the role of foreseeability in the tort of private

nuisance and upholds decision to find building owner liable for fire caused

by contractor



pertinent and significant points of the judgment





    foreseeability of the risk of harm is not generally necessary to

    mount a successful action in nuisance but foreseeability of the

    type of harm is relevant (at [59]).

        



background to the appeals
     1.     the appeals involved a dispute in relation to a fire that caused    extensive damage to a building owned by lim seng chye (“lim”),     located at 15 link road (“no 15”). the fire occurred while    construction involving hot works was being carried out in an    adjoining property located at 17 link road (“no 17”). the owner and    occupier of no 17 was pex international pte ltd (“pex”). pex had    engaged formcraft pte ltd (“formcraft”) as the contractor to carry    out the construction works. lim brought a claim in negligence,    private nuisance and the rule in            john rylands and jehu horrocks v thomas fletcher (1868) lr    3 hl 330 (“rylands v fletcher”) against pex. in the court    below, the high court judge (“the judge”) dismissed the claim in    negligence but allowed the claim in nuisance and the rule in            rylands v fletcher. 
facts
    2.     molly chan ai teow (“chan”) was the general manager of pex and ross

tan joo kim (“tan”) was the chief executive officer of pex. pex was

introduced to the boss of formcraft through the recommendation of a

friend of chan and tan, poh hui choo (“poh”). chan and tan

inspected the work that formcraft had done on poh’s premises and

were impressed with the quality. poh also expressed satisfaction

with formcraft’s work.

  
     3.       pex engaged formcraft for three separate construction projects. the

first and second projects were completed to pex’s satisfaction.

around august 2012, pex contacted formcraft to seek a quotation for

the third project: the construction of an extension to the rear of

no 17 (“the a&a works”). formcraft told pex that government

approvals were needed for the a&a works. on 26 september 2012,

pex engaged ets design & associates (“ets”) to assist in making

all the necessary submissions to the authorities and to apply for

all the necessary permits and approvals for the a&a works.

   
     4.     on 25 february 2013, pex signed and accepted a quotation from

formcraft for the a&a works. the works listed in the quotation

included the construction of a brick wall separating no 17 and no

15. the quotation stated that pex would pay formcraft $16,000 for

“preliminaries & insurance, including hoarding &

protection”. however, formcraft did not procure insurance for the

a&a works.

   
     5.     the fire broke out on 30 april 2013. the singapore civil defence

force’s investigation report on the fire made the following

findings which were not challenged by pex and lim:

    
               a)     the a&a works started six weeks before the fire.

             
               b)     on the day of the fire, a construction worker employed by

formcraft was performing hot works on the top of

scaffolding at the backyard of no 17. at 9.30am, he was

welding a rebar to a steel column to support the brick wall

that was being constructed between no 15 and no 17. there

were strong winds at the time. the construction worker left

for a break at 10.00am and returned 15 minutes later to

continue his work. at 10.30am, he spotted the fire directly

below the position where he was performing the work.

      
               c)     the fire was caused by sparks from the hot works being

carried out at the backyard of no 17. these sparks were the

ignition source. these sparks fell onto the mattresses and

other miscellaneous items at the backyard of no 15, and

those items served as the ignition fuel. the strong winds

fanned the fire and caused the fire to spread.

        
     6.     it was also not disputed on appeal that:

   
               a) formcraft was authorised by pex to conduct the a&a

works and these works required hot works.

             
              b) there was no evidence that pex knew that hot works were

being conducted on the day of the fire.

       
              c)   formcraft was negligent in the performance of the a&a

works at no 17. it failed to ensure adequate supervision of

the works and it commenced the works without the requisite

permit and in defiance of the express instructions of ets.
               d)  if a supervisor had been present during the welding works

on 30 april 2013, he would have noted the presence of

strong winds and the close proximity to flammable material

and would have put a stop to the welding.

        
the proceedings below
     7.     lim commenced a suit against pex and formcraft on 19 april 2016.

formcraft failed to enter an appearance and interlocutory judgment

was entered against formcraft. the trial below proceeded against

pex on the issues of liability alone. lim’s claim against pex was

founded on the tort of negligence, the tort of private nuisance and

the rule in rylands v fletcher.

   
     8.     the judge found that pex was not liable in negligence because pex

had delegated the performance of the a&a works to formcraft as

an independent contractor and pex was not negligent in the

selection of formcraft.

   
     9.     however, the judge found that pex was liable in the tort of private

nuisance. she highlighted that in order to establish nuisance

liability, there was a requirement of foreseeability of harm and

unreasonable use of land. pex could have reasonably foreseen that

the work it had instructed formcraft to do was likely to result in

a nuisance to lim and there was unreasonable use of land, in part

because the hot works were executed in a manner that was

foreseeably unsafe. the judge thus found pex liable under the tort

of nuisance.

   
     10.     the judge also found pex liable in relation to the rule in            rylands v fletcher. foreseeability of damage of the

relevant type was a perquisite of liability in damages under the

rule and pex ought to have known that the a&a works it had

commissioned included hot works. the hot works which produced

sparks or molten globules amounted to a non-natural use of land.

these sparks constituted a dangerous “thing” which posed an

exceptionally high risk to neighbouring property should the sparks

escaped. the sparks escaped and caused extensive damage.

    
     11.     pex appealed the judge’s findings on the tort of private nuisance

and the rule in rylands v fletcher. lim appealed the

judge’s finding on negligence.

    

the court of appeal’s decision
     12.     in its grounds of decision, the court of appeal highlighted that it

dismissed both pex and lim’s appeals. the court of appeal agreed

with the judge that lim’s claim in negligence was not made out for

the reasons set out by the judge. as for the claim in private

nuisance and the rule in rylands v fletcher, while the

court of appeal was of the view that the correct outcome was

reached, it highlighted that there were aspects of the judge’s

decision that merited further clarification. as such, the grounds

of decision focused on private nuisance, with a particular emphasis

on the role of foreseeability in that tort.

    

the role of foreseeability in nuisance
     13.     the court of appeal noted that pex argued on appeal that because it

could not have reasonably foreseen the fire, it should thus not be

liable for the claim in nuisance. the critical issue for

determination in the case was therefore whether and to what extent

the concept of foreseeability featured in determining liability for

nuisance (at [29]).

    
     14.     after examining the relevant authorities, the court of appeal

concluded that there were two competing approaches towards

foreseeability in the tort of private nuisance:

    
               a)

the first approach was that foreseeability of the risk of

harm was generally relevant in determining whether

liability in nuisance was established (at                    [51]).

        
                 b)  the second approach was that foreseeability of the                    risk of harm was not generally relevant in

establishing liability, with the relevant control mechanism

being the principle that the use of land must be

reasonable. foreseeability of the type of harm,

however, was relevant in determining whether a type of loss

was too remote to be claimed (at [52]).

        
     15.     the court of appeal held that the second approach was preferred

over the first approach for three reasons.

    
                 a)     first, the second approach preserved the historical

distinction between the tort of negligence and the tort of

private nuisance. nuisance was focused on the vindication

of the plaintiff’s interest and rights over his land while

negligence was focused on whether a defendant should be

made responsible for a fall in his standards of behaviour

below that which was expected in a particular society. this

distinction accounted for the differing emphasis on

foreseeability. the retention of this distinction also

provided a justification for the continued co-existence of

nuisance and negligence as separate torts, because these

torts protected different interests (at                    [56]).

        
                  b)     second, the approach would be more consistent with the

original scope of nuisance as set out in the older cases.

the departure from the original position appeared to have

been contributed by the manner in which foreseeability had

been discussed in the cases. the distinction between

foreseeability of the type of harm and foreseeability of

the risk of harm had not always been explicitly drawn. this

had led to a blurring of the lines between the test for

remoteness of damage and that of establishing liability in

private nuisance (at [57]).

        
                   c)     third, the principle that one should use his own property

in such a manner as not to injure that of another was

particularly important in land-scare singapore, and this

militated in favour of imposing a stricter version of the

test for nuisance in singapore (at [58]).




    16.     the court of appeal thus summarised that:

    
                   a)     foreseeability of the risk of harm was not generally

necessary to mount a successful action in nuisance, even

where the source of the nuisance was the independent

contractor of the defendant. the relevant control mechanism

was the principle that any use of land that interfered with

the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his neighbouring land

must be reasonable.

        
                    b)     foreseeability of the risk of harm was relevant only where

the acts which created the nuisance were not authorised by

the defendant, such as where the relevant acts originated

from a trespasser. this exception was founded on the basis

that in order to be liable in nuisance, the defendant must

first have used the land in an unreasonable

manner.

        
                     c)     foreseeability of the type of harm was relevant in

determining whether the claim in nuisance satisfied the

requirement of remoteness of damage. causation and

remoteness of damage were essential elements because the

tort would only be actionable on proof of damage.

        
application to the case
     17.     the court of appeal found that to the extent the judge took into

account the fact that pex could have foreseen the risk of harm

occurring in coming to her decision on liability for nuisance, the

judge erred in doing so. the works that created the nuisance were

authorised by the defendant, pex, and thus, foreseeability of the

risk of harm was irrelevant. nevertheless, the court of appeal

agreed with the judge that there was an unreasonable use of land

because the hot works were done at the perimeter between no 15 and

no 17 in the presence of strong winds, in close proximity to the

flammable mattresses stored at the backyard of no 15 and

significantly, without any proper supervision of the workers. lim’s

claim was also not too remote because the type of harm (damage due

to fire) was reasonably foreseeable by pex since pex authorised

formcraft to conduct the a&a works which would ordinarily

involve hot works. thus, the judge was right to hold pex liable for

nuisance (at [61], [62],             [63] and [64]).

    

the rule in rylands v fletcher
     18.     the court of appeal concluded with a brief analysis of the impact

of their decision on the rule in rylands v fletcher. the

court of appeal noted that one justification for the continued

existence of the rule in rylands v fletcher was that it

was an exception to a general rule in nuisance that foreseeability

of the risk of harm was relevant in establishing liability. the

court of appeal recognised that their decision would undermine this

distinction and thus it was an open question whether it remained

necessary to preserve the distinction between nuisance and the rule

in rylands v fletcher. however, the specific point was not

argued in the appeal and thus the court of appeal left this

question to be determined in a more appropriate case (at[67], [68] and            [69]).

    
     19.     the court of appeal highlighted that regardless of the proper

approach, the authorities uniformly established that foreseeability

of the risk of harm was not relevant to determining liability under

the rule in rylands v fletcher and therefore the judge

erred in holding otherwise. nevertheless, the court of appeal

dismissed pex’s appeal on the rule in rylands v fletcher

because the court agreed with the judge that there was a

non-natural use of the land and there was an escape of a dangerous

object onto lim’s property. the court of appeal also found that the

loss was not too remote as the type of harm was foreseeable (at            [70]).

    
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.