supreme court of singapore
9 december 2019
case summary
sintalow hardware pte ltd v osk engineering pte ltd [2019] sghc 286
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the high court (delivered by lai siu chiu sj):
outcome: sghc awards $1,180,773.99 in damages to plaintiff in respect of claim for payment for goods which defendant refused to take delivery of.
background
1              the suit arose from a dispute between the parties over the supply of pipes, valves and other plumbing fittings for installation in the marina bay sands hotel project in 2007. the plaintiff, sintalow hardware pte ltd (“sintalow”), was the supplier, and the defendant, osk engineering pte ltd (“osk”), was the purchaser. the dispute as to liability was dealt with by the high court in sintalow hardware pte ltd v osk engineering pte ltd [2016] sghc 104 (“the hc judgment”) and by the court of appeal in sintalow hardware pte ltd v osk engineering pte ltd [2017] 2 slr 372 (“the ca judgment”). this judgment deals with the dispute as to quantum.
the material facts
2              sintalow and osk entered into a master contract by which sintalow would supply osk with pipes, valves and other plumbing fittings at certain discounted prices. under the auspices of the arrangement set out in the master contract, the parties entered into various products agreements by osk’s acceptance of sintalow’s quotations for the various products based on the bills of quantities issued by osk. the parties entered into several products agreements relating to, amongst other things, the purchase of valves, certain duker hubless products, fusiotherm ppr products, cross tees and rubber sealings. however, osk eventually did not take delivery of some of the aforementioned items.
3              sintalow claimed for, amongst other things, damages in respect of the aforementioned goods which osk had ordered but refused to take delivery of. eventually, some of the undelivered product was sold to third parties or scrapped. sintalow also claimed for a refund of discounts which had been erroneously applied in respect of certain duker hubless products sold, as well as for the cost of cv couplings that had been delivered to osk.
4              in its defence, osk contended, amongst other things, that sintalow had been unable to supply the quantity of products (eg, the cross tees) ordered, based upon an analysis of sintalow’s inventory lists. osk also contended that certain products (eg, the p traps, s traps and afa products) were not locally produced, as required. osk further argued that it would only be liable to sintalow for losses if the market price of the products in question was lower than the contract price.
5              the parties withdrew and agreed several claims in the course of the trial. sintalow withdrew its claim for storage charges. on its part, osk withdrew its claim that sintalow had overcharged it (in consideration of sintalow’s agreement to pay osk $10,595.04 in respect of the overcharging). osk also accepted certain quanta of damages advanced by sintalow: $6,195.32 in respect of a refund of discounts erroneously applied; that $256,764.71 was the value of products which sintalow managed to sell to third parties (in mitigation of its loss); and that $35,387.76 was the sum owing to sintalow in respect of the cv couplings delivered but not paid for by osk. these agreed matters (“agreed matters”) resulted in a sum of $287,752.75 owing to sintalow by osk.
6              what remained disputed was the quantum of damages in respect of the products which osk ordered but refused to take delivery of. sintalow claimed $1,937,592.21 as loss of gross profit (ie, revenue) in respect of these products, and, in the alternative, the sum of $926,298.06 as loss of net profit. 
the court’s decision
7              the court noted that, prima facie, pursuant to s 50(3) of the sale of goods act (cap 393, 1999 rev ed), sintalow would be entitled to loss of profits for osk’s failure to take delivery of the products it had ordered. the measure of damages would be the difference between the contract sale price to osk and the cost price at which sintalow had itself purchased those products from its own suppliers: at [67].
8              the court began by addressing osk’s general objections to sintalow’s claim. the court accepted sintalow’s submission that certain products (eg, the p traps and s traps) could not be re-sold (in mitigation of its loss) due to a subsequent change in regulatory standards which had rendered those products unusable. osk could have but did not cross-examine sintalow’s witness on the change in regulatory standards. the court further rejected osk’s submission that sintalow had under-declared the fruits of the mitigating steps taken. the court also observed that osk’s contention that sintalow had failed to produce evidence of the cost price of the products was wholly without merit, as that evidence had been clearly exhibited in certain spreadsheets, the accuracy of which was never challenged at the trial: at [72], [73], [83] and [87].
9              the court noted that pursuant to certain findings made by the trial judge (and affirmed by the court of appeal) in relation to the proceedings on liability, there had to be a reduction in the damages awarded to sintalow so as to account for stock (relating to the additional duker hubless products and the cross tees which sintalow could not have delivered (despite the order having been placed): at [90] to [94].
10           the court found that the appropriate measure of damages was sintalow’s loss of profit figures as revised to account for the products which sintalow could not have delivered. accordingly, the court awarded sintalow damages in respect of the agreed matters in the sum of $287,752.75, as well as damages in respect of sintalow’s loss of profit in the sum of $893,021.24. the court also awarded interest on both sums, to run from the date of the writ: at [106].
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.