supreme court of singapore



4 december 2019



case summary


man diesel & turbo se and another v im skaugen se and another 

[2019] sgca 80





civil appeal no 213 of 2017




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by steven chong ja):





outcome: court of appeal allows the appeal and sets aside service

out of jurisdiction, finding that two of the respondents’ four claims do

not satisfy any of the jurisdictional gateways in o 11 r 1 of the rules of

court, and that singapore is not the more appropriate forum for the dispute

over germany and norway.



background to the appeal



1 the respondents are part of the skaugen group which provides marine and

transportation services in the oil and gas industry. the appellants are

part of the man group which designs and manufactures engines for ships. the

respondents commenced proceedings in singapore alleging that the appellants

fraudulently and/or negligently misrepresented the rate of fuel consumption

in a particular model of engines which they supplied to the skaugen group

(“the engines”). the respondents obtained leave for service out of

jurisdiction, but this was set aside by the assistant registrar. the high

court judge (“the judge”) allowed the respondents’ appeal and granted

service out of jurisdiction, finding that singapore was the more

appropriate forum for the dispute. recognising that there were interesting

points of law, the judge granted the appellants’ leave to appeal against

his decision. the court of appeal allowed the appeal and set aside the

service.



the material facts



2 there were four parties to the dispute. the first respondent, im skaugen

se, is a company incorporated in norway. it is the holding company of the

skaugen group. the second respondent, im skaugen marine services pte ltd,

is a singapore-incorporated company. it is a wholly owned subsidiary of the

first respondent and is one of the various ship-owning arms of the skaugen

group. the first appellant, man diesel & turbo se, is a company

incorporated in germany. the second appellant, man diesel & turbo norge

as, is a company incorporated in norway. it is a wholly owned subsidiary of

the first appellant and maintains contact with the customers of the man

group in norway.




3 between 2000 and 2001, the skaugen group contracted with shipbuilders to

build six ships (“the vessels”). the first respondent chose the appellants’

engines for installation in the vessels. between may 2001 and june 2002, as

and when an engine was ready to be handed over by the first appellant to

the shipbuilders, the first appellant would conduct a field acceptance test

(“fat”) at its factory in germany. the purpose of the fats were to,    inter alia, verify the fuel consumption values of the engines.




4 close to ten years later, in may 2011, the first appellant issued a press

release stating that there were indications of possible irregularities in

the fats. specifically, the results of the fuel consumption measurement

could have been internally manipulated. following investigations, the first

appellant then informed the respondents that three of the six engines

supplied to the vessels could have been affected by the irregularities.




5 the vessels were owned by distinct entities at different periods of time.

these entities were either within or related to the skaugen group. a hong

kong-incorporated company, somargas hk, owned the vessels between october

2002 to october 2003 and february 2011. thereafter, a

singapore-incorporated company, somargas sg, owned the vessels until they

were transferred to the gatx group (“the gatx entities”) in april 2013. the

gatx entities continue to own three of the vessels while three others have

been sold to third parties.




6 somargas sg, somargas hk and the gatx entities assigned their claims

against the appellants to the respondents. there were a total of four

claims brought by the respondents against the appellants:




(a) the assigned claims: the somargas hk claim, somargas sg claim

and the gatx claim were each for loss and damage suffered by the relevant

entities due to excessive fuel consumption.




(b) the investigation costs claim: this was the only claim for

damages brought by the respondents in their own capacity, for the time and

resources incurred by the first respondent in investigating the excessive

fuel consumption of the vessels and in engaging the appellants in

negotiating a settlement.




7 on 28 january 2015, the respondents commenced the singapore proceedings.

while the respondents secured leave ex parte to serve the writ on

the appellants outside singapore, the assistant registrar set aside the

service on the basis that germany and not singapore was the more

appropriate forum for the dispute. on 2 august 2017, the judge allowed the

respondents’ appeal and held that there was a good arguable case that the

respondents’ claims came within o 11 r 1(f)(ii) and o 11 r 1(    p) of the rules of court. further, unlike the assistant registrar,

the judge found that singapore was the appropriate forum for the dispute,

on the primary ground that both germany and norway were not available fora.




8 approximately seven months after commencing the singapore proceedings,

the respondents commenced an action against the appellants in norway. the

norwegian proceedings involve the exact same claims and issues as the

singapore proceedings. the respondents did not seek a stay of either the

norwegian or singapore proceedings. while the singapore proceedings remain

at the service stage, the norwegian proceedings have reached a far more

advanced stage.



the court of appeal’s decision 



9 the court of appeal allowed the appeal and set aside the service. in

respect of the somargas hk claim and the investigation costs claim, it

found that the respondents had not established a good arguable case that

the claims came within one of the jurisdictional gateways in o 11 r 1. it

also found that the respondents had not discharged their burden of showing

that singapore was clearly the more appropriate forum for the dispute.




10 the appellants sought leave to adduce further evidence before the court

of appeal. the further evidence concerned the developments in the norwegian

proceedings after the judge’s decision. the appellants relied on

these developments, inter alia, to contend that norway was the

more appropriate forum for the dispute (at [43]).




11 the court of appeal granted leave to the appellants to adduce the

further evidence as it was entitled to take into account subsequent

developments after the judge’s decision (at [50]–[58]).






whether the respondents’ claim should be characterised as an

aggregate claim for the purposes of satisfying o 11






12 the court of appeal held that the judge had erred in treating the four

claims brought by the respondents as a single aggregate claim. the claims

ought to have been treated as four distinct claims incurred by four

different entities at four different periods of time. it was incumbent on

the judge to assess whether each of the four claims, standing alone, would

have satisfied one or more of the jurisdictional gateways in o 11 r 1 (at    [64]–[65]).




13 the court of appeal considered this approach to be logical and sensible

as a matter of principle. the transfer of ownership of the vessels and the

assignment of the claims were all conscious and deliberate decisions taken

by the skaugen group. however, the mere act of assigning a claim, in and of

itself, could not possibly convert a claim which does not satisfy the

jurisdictional requirement in o 11 r 1 into an otherwise valid claim.

otherwise, parties would effectively be allowed to circumvent o 11 r 1 by

assigning their alleged claims (which are otherwise outside the scope of o

11 r 1) to a party whose own claim is able to satisfy one or more of the

jurisdictional gateways under o 11 r 1 (at [66]).




14 further, in cases involving the assignment of claims, the jurisdictional

requirements are assessed from the perspective of the original assignor as

the claimant and not the ultimate assignee (at [70]).






whether the respondents had established a good arguable case that o

11 r (1)(



f)(ii) was satisfied 



15 the court of appeal explained that in the absence of any evidence to the

contrary, it could be assumed that the damage for each distinct claim was

suffered in the jurisdiction where the relevant entity was incorporated (    ie, hong kong for the somargas hk claim, norway for the

investigation costs claim and singapore for the somargas sg claim and the

gatx claim). there was no evidence before the court to displace that

presumption (at [78]). hence, while the respondents had

established a good arguable case that o 11 r (1)(f)(ii) was

satisfied for the somargas sg claim and the gatx claim, they failed to do

so for the somargas hk claim and the investigation costs claim (at    [88]).




16 the respondents contended that the gross earnings of the vessels were

allegedly subject to pooling arrangements run and managed in singapore,

from which distributions would then be declared. the court of appeal held

that a distinction had to be drawn between the damage, which is the

financial act of incurring the loss (ie, the increased fuel

expenditure), and the end result of such damage, which is the reduced

distributions or dividends from the pooling arrangements. in fact, the

respondents had consistently taken the position that damage was suffered in

singapore only when the vessels were transferred to singapore-incorporated

entities after february 2011, when these entities incurred increased fuel

expenditure (at [79]–[88]).






whether the respondents had established a good arguable case that o

11 r (1)(



p) was satisfied 



17 the court of appeal rejected the “cause of complaint” test adopted by

the judge in determining where the cause of action arose for the purpose of

o 11 r (1)(p). instead, the court of appeal held that the

substance test set out in its previous decision in    jio minerals fzc and others v mineral enterprises ltd [2011] 1 slr

391 ought to apply in both stay applications as well as service out of

jurisdiction applications. the court of appeal explained that the case

relied on by the judge for the “cause of complaint” test,    distillers co (biochemicals) ltd v laura anne thompson [1971] ac

458, was in fact authority for the substance test (at    [98]–[113]).




18 the judge had found that germany was where the cause of action arose if

one were to apply the substance test, as it was where the misrepresentation

was made, received and relied upon. there was no appeal against this

finding. therefore, the respondents failed to establish a good arguable

case that o 11 r 1(p) was satisfied for any of the four claims (at    [118]–[119]).






whether singapore is the more appropriate forum for the dispute






19 the court of appeal held that singapore was not the more appropriate

forum for the dispute, both at the time of the hearing before the judge and

at the time of the hearing before the court of appeal.




20 the court of appeal explained that the judge erred in finding both

norway and germany to be unavailable fora. article 27 of the lugano

convention only required germany to decline jurisdiction if jurisdiction in

norway was established. at the time of the hearing before the judge, the

norwegian court of appeal had held that the respondents’ claims were

subject to arbitration and therefore declined jurisdiction. however, that

decision was subject to appeal. if the norwegian court of appeal’s decision

was reversed by the supreme court of norway (as it eventually was two

months after the judge’s decision), then norway would be seised of

jurisdiction and would be an available forum. if the norwegian court of

appeal’s decision was upheld by the supreme court of norway, then the

norwegian courts would not have established jurisdiction and art 27 of the

lugano convention would not prevent the german courts from exercising

jurisdiction (at [130]–[135]).




21 the court of appeal stated that the judge had erred in placing

substantial weight on the possibility of the case being transferred to the

singapore international commercial court (“sicc”). when viewed against the

governing law of the dispute (german law) and the place of the tort

(germany), the judge ought to have placed more weight on those factors as

opposed to the possibility of a transfer to the sicc. the court of appeal

noted that the possibility of a transfer to the sicc will not be sufficient

to displace a foreign jurisdiction which is the more appropriate forum

based on an application of the conventional factors (at    [136]–[146]).




22 the court of appeal explained that the judge gave insufficient weight to

the factor of availability of witnesses. the witnesses, who were primarily

based in germany and norway, could not be compelled to either testify in

person in singapore or give evidence via video-link (at    [148]). the court of appeal also considered that the judge

ought to have treated the factor of availability of documents as a neutral

factor, and not one that pointed to singapore as being the more appropriate

forum. finally, the court of appeal noted that all four claims could be

tried in germany or norway. in contrast, only two claims could be tried in

singapore (at [152]).




23 in any event, the court of appeal held that norway was clearly the more

appropriate forum at the time of the hearing before the court of appeal.

the norwegian proceedings had reached a more advanced stage than the

singapore proceedings, and concerned the same claims and issues. the status

of the norwegian proceedings was a relevant consideration in the    forum non conveniens analysis given the need to avoid a

multiplicity of proceedings and the risk of inconsistent judgments. the

parallel proceedings were a direct consequence of the respondents’ decision

to commence proceedings in two jurisdictions and thereafter in failing to

seek a stay of either of the two proceedings (at    [153]–[159])





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.