supreme court of singapore



27 november 2019



case summary




oro negro drilling pte ltd and others v integradora de servicios

petroleros oro negro sapi de cv and others and another appeal



[2019] sgca 74





civil appeals no 194 of 2018 and 105 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by steven chong ja):





outcome: court of appeal overturns high court’s decision to set aside order

granting leave to serve an originating summons out of singapore, grants

injunction against former directors and shareholder of

singapore-incorporated companies for breaches of negative covenants.



background to the appeal



1. the appellants were a group of singapore-incorporated companies that

owned and operated oil rigs in mexico with the first appellant, oro negro

drilling pte ltd (“oro negro”), being the group’s holding company while

each of the second to sixth respondents (“the rig owners”) owned an oil rig

each (“the rigs”). the rigs were chartered to perforadora oro negro s de rl

de cv (“perforadora”), which in turn sub-chartered the rigs to a subsidiary

of a mexican state-owned company (“the pemex charters”). perforadora was

almost wholly owned by the first respondent, which was also oro negro’s

sole shareholder. the second and third respondents were the appellants’

former directors.



the material facts



2. the rigs’ purchase and operation was financed by bonds issued by oro

negro to various bondholders pursuant to a bond agreement (“the bond

agreement”) between integradora and a norwegian company called nordic

trustee asa (“nt”) which acted as the bond trustee on the bondholders’

behalf. pursuant to the bond agreement, the appellants’ constitutions were

amended in 2016 to provide nt with a right to appoint an independent

director and for that independent director to have the power to veto any

attempt by the appellants to place themselves in insolvency-related

proceedings. an independent director was also eventually appointed pursuant

to nt’s directions (“the independent director”).




3. between 2015 and 2017, perforadora faced difficulties with the pemex

charters as the mexican state-owned company sought various amendments to

the charters which were unfavourable to perforadora.




4. in august 2017, the second and third respondents granted wide-ranging

powers of attorney to lawyers from a mexican firm called guerra (“the

guerra poas”), including the non-party, mr jesus angel guerra mendez (“mr

mendez”). the guerra poas were wide-ranging and included powers to file

“all kinds of proceedings”, and they were also executed without the

independent director’s knowledge and approval.




5. on 20 september 2017 the first respondent passed a shareholder’s

resolution authorising: (a) the engagement of guerra as oro negro’s lawyers

for the purposes of filing a concurso petition (insolvency

proceedings) on its behalf; and (b) the granting of powers of attorney to

guerra to seek or desist proceedings on oro negro’s behalf. oro negro in

turn passed various shareholder’s resolutions to the same effect in respect

of the rig owners. thereafter, and due to a concurso petition

filed by perforadora, nt declared an event of default under the bond

agreement. it took over control of the appellants and replaced the second

and third respondents with its own appointees (“the new directors”).




6. on 29 september 2017, guerra filed a concurso petition on the

appellants’ behalf in mexico without the independent director’s approval.

the appellants’ new directors only learnt of this petition on 6 october

2017, and they eventually passed board resolutions to rescind any powers of

attorney granted on the appellants’ behalf. the new directors also

instructed new lawyers to file various motions to try and put a halt to the    concurso proceedings involving the appellants. subsequently, the

appellants also commenced originating summons no 126 of 2018 (“os 126”) in

singapore, seeking, inter alia, declarations that the respondents

had no authority to represent the appellants, and various permanent

injunctions against them from doing so. they also applied for leave to

serve os 126 out of singapore, as well as for interim injunctions mirroring

the permanent injunctions.




7. the high court judge initially granted the appellants leave to serve os

126 out of singapore (“the overseas service order”), as well as the interim

injunctions sought (“the interim injunctions”). however, she later granted

an application by the respondents for them to be set aside.



the court of appeal’s grounds of decision



8. the court of appeal allowed the appeal and restored both the overseas

service order and the interim injunctions.




9. it held that the appellants had satisfied the requirements for leave to

serve os 126 out of singapore as:




a. they had raised good arguable cases against the second and third

respondents for breaches of negative covenants not to carry into effect any

petition to place the appellants in concurso and against the first

respondent for unlawful means conspiracy and/or inducing the appellants to

breach their constitutions (at [56]–[78]).




b. singapore was the more appropriate forum to determine os 126 as: (a) it

was the appellants’ place of incorporation; (b) the extent of proceedings

in mexico was not relevant for the purposes of os 126 and in any case did

not result in a substantive determination of the issues raised in os 126;

(c) singapore law governed the main issue raised in os 126; and (d) the

presumption that mexico was the appropriate forum to determine the tortious

claims was displaced since those claims were parasitic on the non-tortious

claims (at [82]–[92]).




10. it also held that the judge was wrong to have discharged the interim

injunctions as:




a. the second and third respondents had breached negative covenants that

they were bound by (at [102]); and




b. although the first respondent had not directly breached any negative

covenants, it had nevertheless procured the breaches of negative covenants

in this case (at [103]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.