supreme court of singapore


27 november 2019


case summary



liew kit fah and others v koh keng chew and others



[2019] sgca 78





civil appeal no 115 of 2018





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal steven

chong for the majority, consisting of justice quentin loh and himself,

with justice belinda ang saw ean dissenting):





outcome: coa by a majority allowed in part the appellants’ appeal

against the high court’s decision directing a valuer not to apply discounts

in the valuation of the respondents’ minority shareholding.



introduction



1 this appeal was against the high court judge’s (the “judge”) decision

directing an independent valuer appointed by the parties not to apply

certain discounts in the valuation of the respondents’ minority

shareholding in various companies.



background to the appeal



2 the respondents held 28% of the shares in the samwoh group while the

appellants collectively held the remainder.




3 the respondents brought suit against the appellants for minority

oppression. prior to trial, the parties compromised and recorded a consent

order (the “consent order”) agreeing that the only issue to be determined

at trial was whether the appellants were to purchase the respondents’

shares in the samwoh group or vice versa (the “buyout issue”). the consent

order also recorded that the appellants would not admit to liability for

any of the alleged acts of oppression.




4 the judge subsequently issued three decisions. in the first, which was

issued in july 2016 (“koh keng chew (no 1)”), he ordered the

appellants to buy out the respondents (the “buyout order”). the parties

could not agree, however, on various issues subsequently. in january 2017,

the judge issued a second decision (“koh keng chew (no 2)”), in

which he gave certain directions as to the reference date for the valuation

as well as its process.




5 this appeal arose out of the judge’s third decision, which stemmed from a

dispute between the parties as to whether the respondents’ shareholding

ought to be discounted for lack of control because they were minority

shares, and/or for lack of marketability because, being shares in privately

held companies, they were subject to share transfer restrictions.





decision of the majority (delivered by judge of appeal steven chong on

behalf of justice quentin loh and himself)





6 the court began by observing that, in deciding whether the relevant

discounts ought to apply, the judge had proceeded on the basis that the

respondents had successfully established a case of minority oppression

against the appellants (at [15]). consequently, the judge

viewed the sale of the respondents’ shares to the appellants as a compelled

sale akin to the usual sale pursuant to a court-ordered buyout of shares

under the statutory minority oppression regime (at [17]).

in the court’s judgment, this was incorrect because a court’s powers to

order a buy-out of shares under the statutory oppression regime were only

enlivened where it was satisfied that a case of minority oppression had

been established (at [20]). the consent order had recorded

parties’ agreement to dispense with the issue of liability for minority

oppression and the judge had accordingly not made any finding in that

regard. there was therefore no proper legal basis to invoke the court’s

powers to order a buy-out of shares under the statutory oppression regime

(at [21]).




7 the court agreed with the parties as well as the judge that whether the

relevant discounts ought to apply would turn on the question whether the

respondents could be treated as willing sellers of their shares in the

samwoh group (at [29]). it stressed that this question was

not simply concerned with whether, given a choice, a minority shareholder

would prefer to be a buyer instead of a seller of the relevant shares.

instead, the concept of willingness in this context turned on whether the

minority shareholder’s interests had been unfairly prejudiced by the

majority’s conduct, which thereby made it no longer tolerable for him to

retain his interest in the company (at [30] and [    34]). in the case at hand, given the terms of the consent

order as well as the absence of any finding on liability for minority

oppression, the respondents were to be treated as willing sellers of their

shares under the buyout order for the purposes of ascertaining whether the

relevant discounts ought to apply (at [41]).




8 in relation to the discount for lack of control, the court noted that in

the context of a buyout of a minority shareholding pursuant to a consent

order where the seller was to be treated as akin to a willing seller, this

discount would typically apply (at [48]). the respondents

in the case at hand were to be regarded as willing sellers of their

minority shareholding, as they had elected not to pursue the oppression

action, and the consent order was in essence a freely negotiated

transaction (at [50]). the appellants were also not a

concrete bloc of shareholders that would consolidate their control of the

samwoh group through the purchase of the respondents’ shares (at [    52]). the court held accordingly that a minority discount

for lack of control ought to apply in the valuation of the respondents’

shares in the samwoh group (at [53]).




9 in relation to the discount for lack of marketability, the court noted

that in a case where liability for minority oppression was not established,

the only way out for a disenchanted shareholder would be through the

established processes for the sale of shares under the company’s articles.

those processes invariably contained restrictions on the transfer of

shares, which gave rise to their lack of marketability (at [    58]). however, since a discount for the lack of

marketability would be industry specific, it should not invariably be

treated in the same way as a discount for lack of control. the court

accordingly left it to the expertise of the independent valuer to decide

whether to apply the lack of marketability discount for the respondents’

shares (at [59]).





decision of the minority (delivered by justice belinda ang saw ean)





10 belinda ang saw ean j would have dismissed the appeal and affirmed the

decision of the judge not to impose a minority discount on the sale of the

respondents’ shares (at [64]). the coercive nature of the

buyout order was not in and of itself a sufficient reason not to apply a

minority discount. however, taking into consideration all the facts and

circumstances of the present case, no minority discount should be imposed

(at [74]).




11 in a no-fault buyout like in this case, what counts is whether the

purchase at a fair value is fair, just and equitable as between the

parties. there were two valuation issues – the applicability of a discount

and the reference date for the valuation. both valuation issues are closely

connected, in that they both affect the final price at which the shares

will be bought out. as such, the appropriate legal approach to determining

whether a discount ought to be applied to the respondents’ shares would

follow the same principle as that applied by the judge to determine the

valuation date of the shares, that is to say, the court would reach a price

that is fair, just and equitable as between the parties. this is distinct

from saying that the court-ordered buyout was in fact made pursuant to s

216(2) of the companies act (cap 50, 2006 rev ed) (the “companies act”) (at

[71]).




12 the appellants submitted that since the judge had made no finding of

oppression, the price of the respondents’ shares should be determined

according to their fair market value, which attracts the application of

discounts for lack of control and lack of marketability. however, there is

a difference between fair value and market value (at [79

]). the concept of market value is a determinative price after negotiations

as between a willing buyer and a willing seller in the open market (at [    71]). in contrast, the essence of the fair value concept

is the desire to be equitable to both parties. the fair value of shares is

ordinarily the pro rata value of such shares without a discount (at [    83]-[84].




13 the following factors militated against the imposition of a minority

discount:




a. it is possible that a no-fault buyout is likened to a forced sale – a

sale in which one party is an unwilling seller (at [88]).

in the present case, the lack of a finding of oppression was because the

parties chose not to litigate that issue. it does not mean that in a

no-fault buyout a minority discount must inevitably be imposed (at [    89]). here, weight can still be given to the circumstances

of the present case, which show that the respondents did not wish to exit

the samwoh group. although the judge may have erred in his reasoning that

the buyout order was coercive because it was made pursuant to s 216(2) of

the companies act, weight can nonetheless be given to the general

circumstances surrounding the respondents’ exit (at [90]).




b. discounts for lack of control and lack of transferability are commonly

applied in the context of a sale of a minority stake in a company to an

outsider. where, however, the sale is to an existing shareholder in the

company, it is difficult to see why these discounts ought still to apply.

as the buyout order was between the respondents and the appellants as

existing shareholders in the samwoh group, the rationale underpinning the

usual application of each type of discount did not apply (at [    92]). there was no basis to apply a discount for lack of

marketability as it was not imaginable that the appellants would enforce

any restrictions on the transfer of the respondents’ shares to themselves

(at [93]). as for the discount for lack of control, the

rationale underpinning it is that when an external party buys a minority

stake into a company, that investor is taking on certain risks due to the

lack of control that he would have over the way the company is run. these

considerations would not arise because the respondents were not selling

their shares to an external party. instead, the appellants were even

gaining an additional benefit from the shares by consolidating their

shareholding in the samwoh group(at [94]).




c. acquisition of the respondents’ shares would give the appellants a

meaningful increase in control over the samwoh group, which they otherwise

would not have had. it would increase the shareholding of the appellants’

block over the 75% threshold that is required for, effectively, full

control over the companies in the samwoh group by means of passing special

resolutions (at [95]).




d. the respondents had not originally acquired their shares at a discounted

price to reflect their minority status (at [100]). it was

not disputed that mr koh keng chew was an initial investor in samwoh

corporation pte ltd (“samwoh corp”), and was one of the first-generation

directors who first started the business as a partnership, and later moved

to incorporate samwoh corp so as to move into the business of asphalt

premix concrete. since then, samwoh corp has expanded into other

businesses, for which the other companies in the samwoh group were

incorporated. the judge also found that the respondents had contributed to

the success of the samwoh group. it would be unfair to now impose a

minority discount on the respondents’ sale of those shares (at [    101]).




14 the upshot of the memorandum and articles of association of samwoh corp

(“samwoh’s articles”) is that existing shareholders have a right of first

refusal when another shareholder wishes to sell his shares in the company

(at [103]). samwoh’s articles are relevant only in the

absence of court action. in this case, parties entered into the consent

order which had the effect of creating a completely new exit mechanism for

the respondents (at [104]). further, the respondents’

position under samwoh’s articles cannot be compared to their present

position, which is that the respondents did not wish to exit the samwoh

group. samwoh’s articles therefore would have provided no recourse for the

respondents (at [105]).




15 in any event, it could not be said that the buyout order was nothing

more than an agreed sale. that would be to mischaracterise the effect of

the consent order, and to omit to take into account the text of the consent

order and the context surrounding the parties’ decision to enter into the

consent order in the first place. in reality, the consent order reflected

the impasse in existence between the parties as to which party should be

forced to exit the samwoh group (at [107]). it was evident

from the text of the consent order that the respondents wanted to remain in

the company and was normatively not a willing seller (at [    108]). there is a distinction between accepting the

possibility of being ordered to sell one’s shares despite desiring not to

be bought out, and agreeing wholeheartedly to selling one’s shares (at [    109]).




16 while it could be accepted as a general proposition that if a minority

shareholder commences a minority oppression action purely for tactical

reasons and as a device to withdraw from the company by selling his shares

at their full price, that is not something that the court should

countenance (at [113]). however, that no finding of

oppression was made is inconclusive evidence of the respondents having

commenced suit 125 for purely tactical reasons (at [115]).

that the respondents did not initially seek a buyout of the appellants’

shares is also neither here nor there (at [114]). the

consent order could not be viewed as an election by the respondents to

abandon their s 216 action. the parties were merely narrowing the scope of

issues to be litigated at trial (at [116]). to construe

the mere entering by the parties into the consent order as tantamount to an

abandonment of the respondents’ action would operate as a dampener on

genuine attempts by parties to compromise their disputes. such an approach

would have the effect of creating a rule that parties who compromise

liability and consent to a court order for a share buyout have their shares

assessed on a “willing seller and willing buyer” basis, such that minority

shareholders invariably receive minority discounts on their valuations (at

[117]).




17 there was some difficulty with accepting the appellants’ submission that

the consent order was the basis of the court’s power to make the buyout

order, as opposed to s 216(2) of the companies act as there was no finding

of oppression to enliven the statutory power (at [119]-[    120]). specifically, the difficulty was with the view that

that the parties could have conferred on the court the power to make a

share buyout solely by their consent. this ran contrary to the

well-established principle that parties cannot confer jurisdiction upon the

court (at [121]). the local authorities relied upon merely

demonstrate that factually the court has countenanced a compromise on the

issue of oppression before. crucially, the source of the court’s power to

make a share buyout order was never closely examined in those cases (at [    127]). as the position in singapore is not conclusively

settled, it would be open to the court, in some future case, to determine a

sound juridical basis for the exercise of its powers in making a buyout

order where the parties have compromised on the issue of minority

oppression (at [135]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.