supreme court of singapore


26 november 2019


case summary





armstrong, carol ann (executrix of the estate of peter traynor,

deceased and on behalf of the dependents of peter traynor,

deceased)




v quest laboratories pte ltd and another and other appeals

[2019] sgca 75




civil appeals nos 70, 71, and 72 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal justice

andrew phang boon leong):





outcome: a five-judge coram of court of appeal affirms finding

that a consultant pathologist and lab had misdiagnosed a patient, causing

his death by giving clean bill of health when he had malignant melanoma.

the court allows widow’s appeal that the respondents’ negligence caused

patient to lose his full life expectancy (as compared to four years of his

life). both parties’ appeals were partially allowed as to calculation of

damages.




the court outlines several significant principles regarding causation in

medical negligence, the use of statistical evidence, and dependency and

loss of inheritance claims.



introduction



1 the appellant, ms carol ann armstrong (“the appellant”) is the widow of

the deceased, mr peter traynor (“mr traynor”). the appellant brought suit

on behalf of mr traynor’s estate and his dependents against quest

laboratories pte ltd (“quest”) and dr tan hong wui (“dr tan”) (collectively

“the respondents”), alleging that their negligence had caused mr traynor’s

death.




2 in september 2009, mr traynor discovered a bloodstain on his shirt and

consulted his general practitioner, who shaved a mole (“the primary

tumour”) from his back and sent it to the respondents for a review. the

respondents returned a pathology report stating, “[t]here is no

malignancy”. it transpired the primary tumour was in fact a malignant

melanoma. mr traynor passed away from metastatic melanoma four years later,

at the age of 49, leaving behind the appellant, and their two daughters

aged 10 and 12.




3 the high court judge (“the judge”) found that the respondents’ breach was

“straightforward and obvious”. the primary tumour could not have been a

benign “spitz naevus”, which were usually seen in children, since mr

traynor was a 45-year-old man. they were negligent in sending a clean bill

of health when the circumstances required at least further examination. as

to causation, the judge rejected the respondents’ assertion that mr

traynor’s fate was already biologically determined and he would have died

from his cancer anyway. however, the judge also rejected the appellant’s

claim that mr traynor would have been cured and instead found he would only

have lived for four more years. on that basis, he allowed part of the

appellant’s claim for dependency and loss of inheritance.



the court of appeal’s decision as to breach



4 the court affirmed the judge’s findings as to breach. none of the

pathologists or experts was prepared to conclusively state that the

specimen given to the respondents to review was a benign tumour, and yet

this was exactly what the respondents had done in stating that “[t]here is

no malignancy”. even the respondents’ own expert accepted that no competent

pathologist would have taken that view, and in atypical cases, the approach

should be to give a preferred diagnosis while acknowledging a degree of

uncertainty. as to the tests inbolam v friern hospital management committee [1957] 1 wlr 582 (“    bolam”) and bolitho v city and hackney health authority

[1998] 1 ac 232 (“bolitho”), the court held that the    bolitho addendum was not even engaged as there was no material

difference in opinion between any of the pathologists or experts (at    [54] and [65]).




5 the court was not fully persuaded the correct diagnosis could have been

equivocal. a reasonable and competent pathologist would at least have

concluded that the specimen was suggestive of, if not straightforwardly, a

malignant melanoma. crucial features of the specimen were unequivocally

observable, and under the bolam standard these observable features

supported a subsequent interpretation of an unequivocally malignant

melanoma. even dr tan revised his diagnosis after viewing deeper levels of

the specimen in 2012, to diagnose the specimen as “suggestive of a

melanoma” (at [55], and [58]–    [59]).




6 the court pointed out that the respondents’ own expert had accepted that

lives depended upon accurate diagnoses by pathologists and had to be

undertaken with diligence. this did not mean that pathologists had to get

it right all the time, but at a minimum, if a pathologist could not rule

out the worst-case scenario, they should state so in their report. the

respondents had not only failed to state that the worst-case was not ruled

out, they had delivered a report stating the exact opposite – that there

was no malignancy. the court agreed with the judge that if mr traynor had

been informed that the mole on his back was not benign, this would have

result in a completely different course of action. misled by the

respondents, mr traynor did not seek further medical treatment for a

cancerous melanoma (at [66]–[69]) .



 




the court of appeal’s preliminary observations on causation





7 the court of appeal rejected the respondents’ submission that thebolam-bolitho test should apply to questions of causation. the    bolam-bolitho test was concerned with whether the general

professional standard was met and the potential diversity of views as to

what the practitioner ought to have done (a quasi-normative question), and

was not concerned with a diversity of views as to factual causation, which

is a question of evidence and about what had actually happened (a purely

descriptive question) (at [75]–[77]).




8 the court considered that the policy considerations in retaining the    bolam-bolitho test, such as the concerns over defensive medicine,

were relevant to breach, but fundamentally irrelevant in the context of

causation. if a practitioner had complied with professionally reasonable

standards, it would not matter if the treatment he or she has or has not

prescribed had led to the patient suffering loss. he or she had not

breached her professional duties and would not be held liable (at    [79] and [81]–[84]).




9 the court clarified the tests of factual causation (including but-for

causation) and legal causation. it held that a judge is not invariably

bound to make findings of fact, but where he or she does so, it need not be

an invariable election between expert opinions, and the judge is not bound

to accept or reject expert evidence in its entirety. the ultimate

considerations were consistency, logic, coherence, and a focus on the

objective evidence (at [85]–[87] and    [92]).




10 there was a distinction between fact probability (which was the evidence

that spoke to the causal connection), and belief probability (which was the

degree of strength and credibility attributed by the decision-maker to the

evidence). statistical evidence was really just fact probability, and while

a court could place its belief in that piece of fact probability, it need

not invariably do so. it was but one factor in the overall mix (at    [97] and [99]).




11 the error in the house of lord’s majority decision in    gregg v scott [2005] 2 ac 176 (“gregg v scott”) was in

the incorrect application of statistical evidence. the first fallacy lay in

the comparison. the statistical evidence pertaining to other patients who

were not misdiagnosed was at best a proxy for what might have been, and did

not reflect what actually happened to the patient who was misdiagnosed. the

second error was conflating the tools of analysis with the object of

analysis. it was also not correct to substitute the 42 per cent figure in

the statistical evidence (the fact probability) for the standard of the

balance of probabilities, which was really the degree the court was

convinced (the belief probability) (at [106]–    [107]).



the court of appeal’s decision as to causation



12 the only cause of mr traynor’s death was the melanoma that had spread

through his bloodstream from his infected lymph nodes after 2009, which the

respondents’ breach had allowed to grow due to the delay in diagnosis. the

respondents’ defence that melanoma had already migrated from the primary

tumour or lymph nodes to his distant organs via his bloodstream and had

stayed dormant before they misdiagnosed him in 2009 was rejected. at best,

all the respondents could show was a possibility of dormancy and spread

before september 2009. in contrast, the appellant’s expert who had vast

experience in this particular field testified that the probability that a

tumour was dormant and not detected for over three years was very, very

rare. the respondents’ case also portended a longer period of dormancy than

the appellant’s case, and was less feasible (at [125],[131], [144]–[147],    [175] and [192]).




13 as of september 2009, only mr traynor’s sentinel lymph nodes were

infected with melanoma and he would have availed of a sentinel lymph node

biopsy (“slnb”), which would have surgically removed them. the various

large scale studies cited by the respondents were not appropriate, as in mr

traynor’s specific situation, all of the melanoma was confined to the

sentinel lymph nodes and would have been eradicated by slnb, thus curing

him. the judge’s finding that mr traynor had only lost four years of his

life was reversed: instead damages should be calculated on the basis of his

full life expectancy (at [150], [160],    [186]–[192]).




14 the court remarked that in addition to reports and slides it is a matter

of good practice for the parties and experts to also make available the

supporting literature and source material and to carefully cite it in

context, so that the court could test the accuracy, veracity,

methodological rigour, logic, and explanatory force of the expert’s opinion

(at [164]).



 


 


the court of appeal’s decision as to damages



15 the court of appeal revised the judge’s determination of mr traynor’s

annual income from $450,000 to $308,386. among other things, since it was

the appellant who was submitting for the $450,000 figure, it was incumbent

on the appellant to prove that figure, but she had not provided an

explanation for the large bonus that led to this amount (at    [204]–[206]).




16 the court affirmed the majority of the judge’s findings on the pre-trial

dependency claim. the appellant could not rely on both the “traditional

method” to get a 100% of the portions she could prove, and also rely on the

“conventional percentages” under the “percentage deduction method to get

75% for the portions she could not prove. however, the court accepted that

at least some proportion of the traynor family’s expenses of $243,000 would

have been spent on the dependents and held that 50% would be fair. since

the judge’s award was initially predicated on his finding of four years of

life expectancy, which had been reversed, the determination of the

post-trial dependency claim and other factors were remitted for his

consideration (at [222] and [230]–    [240]).




17 the court affirmed the majority of the judge’s findings on the pre-trial

loss of inheritance claims. the multiplier-multiplicand should be

calculated separately for the purposes of the dependency claim and the loss

of inheritance claim. however, the judge’s award was remitted for further

deliberation to take into account, among other things, the reduction in mr

traynor’s estimated annual income, and the post-trial loss of inheritance

claim (at [249]–[260]).




18 the court also expressed the view that it would be in the interests of

the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement in relation to the

issue of damages, both for the purposes of effecting closure and to save

costs (at [196]).




19 the court expressed its gratitude to the learned amicus curiae,

prof gary chan kok yew, who had provided extensive submissions, admirable

analytical rigour, and wide-ranging arguments on the loss of a chance

doctrine. however, as the appellant had succeeded in her primary claim for

a cure, it was unnecessary to determine the controversy surrounding the

loss of a chance doctrine, which was reserved for an appropriate case in

the future (at [193] and [273]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.