supreme court of singapore



26 november 2019



case summary




harmonious coretrades pte ltd v united integrated services pte ltd




[2019] sgca 77





civil appeal no 126 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice tay yong kwang):





outcome: coa gives its reasons for restoring a final garnishee

order which was set aside on the basis that the debt underlying the

garnishee order had been extinguished.




1 this was an appeal against the decision of a high court judge (“the

judge”) to set aside a final garnishee order (“the final garnishee order”).



background to the appeal



2 the respondent, united integrated services pte ltd (“uis”), was the main

contractor for a construction project. it engaged a third party, civil tech

pte ltd (“ctpl”), to carry out construction works for the project. ctpl in

turn engaged the appellant, harmonious coretrades pte ltd (“hcpl”), as its

sub-contractor: at [3].




3 on 31 august 2018, hcpl obtained against ctpl an adjudication

determination under the building and construction industry security of

payment act (cap 30b, 2006 rev ed) (“the sopa”). ctpl failed to make

payment. hcpl thus sought and obtained leave to enforce the adjudication

determination as a judgment of the court: at [4]-[    6].




4 hcpl then commenced garnishee proceedings against uis, seeking an order

that all debts due from uis to ctpl be attached to answer the debt owing

from ctpl to hcpl. at the hearing for the garnishee to show cause, uis

informed the court that it had no objections to the garnishee application.

the provisional garnishee order was thus made final: at [7

]-[8].




5 uis later formed the view that ctpl was insolvent and owed money to uis,

instead of uis owing money to ctpl. uis eventually did not make payment on

the final garnishee order. on 22 november 2018, uis filed applications

against hcpl and ctpl, seeking a stay of enforcement of any adjudication

determinations and a stay of the final garnishee order. uis’ position was

that the final garnishee order was premised on a debt owed by uis to ctpl,

which arose from an adjudication determination rendered on 23 october 2018

(“ad1”). however, by virtue of a subsequent adjudication determination

rendered on 23 november 2018 (“ad2”), uis no longer owed ctpl any debt.

instead, the adjudicator in ad2 took into consideration the values

determined in ad1, and arrived at a finding that ctpl owed uis

approximately $1.18m: at [10]-[13].




6 on 15 january 2019, hcpl, uis and ctpl appeared before the judge for the

hearing of uis’ stay of enforcement applications. the judge ordered a stay

of enforcement of ad1 by ctpl against uis, unless ctpl obtains an order

setting aside ad2. the judge did not order a stay of enforcement in

relation to the final garnishee order. upon the hearing of further

arguments, the judge varied his order in relation to the stay of

enforcement of ad1 to an unconditional stay of enforcement. the judge held

that as between uis and ctpl, only ad2 was enforceable, as it had

superseded ad1. further, there was clear and objective evidence that ctpl

was insolvent: at [15]-[19].




7 shortly after ad2 was rendered, on 11 december 2018, uis applied to set

aside the final garnishee order. the assistant registrar dismissed uis’

application. uis appealed. the judge allowed uis’ appeal and set aside the

final garnishee order. the judge first noted that the court retained the

“residual discretion flowing from its inherent powers to prevent injustice”

to set aside any order of court. the essential touchstone to invoking the

court’s inherent powers was that of “need”. the judge held that there was

such a need for three reasons: (a) as uis had obtained a stay of

enforcement of ad1, the substratum of the final garnishee order was held in

abeyance; (b) upholding the final garnishee order could expose uis to a

debt it may not even owe; and (c) as ctpl was insolvent, allowing the

enforcement of the final garnishee order would unduly favour hcpl at the

expense of uis should ctpl subsequently be wound up. hcpl appealed the

judge’s decision to set aside the final garnishee order: at [20]-[23] and [24]-[    25].



decision on appeal



8 the court of appeal allowed hcpl’s appeal and restored the final

garnishee order: at [28].




9 on the issue of the court’s power to set aside the final garnishee order,

the court of appeal noted that there were at least three circumstances in

which a court may set aside a judgment or order of court. however, these

three circumstances were not exhaustive and the court retained a residual

discretion to set aside a judgment or court order. this flowed from the

court’s inherent powers to prevent injustice. the court’s inherent powers

are preserved by o 92 r 4 of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev

ed). the court of appeal emphasised, however, that this is not a licence to

litigants to make frivolous applications to set aside judgments or court

orders. the court of appeal accepted that one situation where the court’s

inherent power could be invoked might be where the substratum of a court

order has been destroyed, such that the continued existence of the court

order would lead to injustice: at [34], [    36]-[37] and [40].




10 the court of appeal held that the essential touchstone for the

invocation of the court’s power was that of “need”. on the facts, the

grounds relied upon by the judge did not constitute sufficient reason, or

caused such injustice, that the court had to invoke its inherent power to

set aside the final garnishee order: at [43].




11 the judge’s decision was premised upon the reasoning that ad2 had

superseded ad1, so that ad1 was no longer enforceable by ctpl against uis.

this was not correct. adjudication determinations do not supersede one

another but are each enforceable independently in their own right unless or

until impugned on the grounds as provided in the sopa. it was not disputed

that ad1 was not impugned under any of the three grounds as provided in the

sopa. accordingly, ad1 was imbued with temporary finality and was binding

as between uis and ctpl: at [44]-[45] and

[47].




12 the narrow question that remained was whether ad2 could nonetheless

impugn or supersede ad1. the court of appeal held that ad2 could have no

such effect for two reasons:




a. first, it would run counter to the legislative purpose behind the sopa

to hold that parties could seek to rely on subsequent adjudication

determinations to impugn, set off, or otherwise diminish the enforceability

of an earlier adjudication determination. the legislative purpose of the

sopa was to facilitate cash flow in the building and construction industry.

the adjudication process established under the sopa was based on the idea

that parties to a construction contract should “pay now, argue later”. the

judge’s reasoning that only the final adjudication determination between

parties is enforceable would run counter to this philosophy, and change it

to “pay only at the end”. the scheme of the sopa is that even if the

upstream party has valid counter-claims against a downstream party, its

obligation is to pay up on an adjudication determination and pursue those

counter-claims later: at [48] and [52].




b. second, ad2 did not, in itself, create a debt owing from ctpl to uis.

although the adjudicator in ad2 found that it was uis that had a net claim

against ctpl for approximately $1.18m, that did not have the effect in law

of giving uis a claim against ctpl for $1.18m. all that was decided under

ad2 was that uis did not have to pay ctpl on that claim. the sopa only

provides for a downstream party to apply for adjudication and an

adjudication determination cannot result in a downstream party paying an

upstream party. the net effect of ad1 and ad2 is that the sums owing under

ad1 still stand. it was thus inaccurate to say that uis would be required

to pay a debt it did not owe if the final garnishee order were enforced: at

[53]-[56].




13 the court of appeal also held that no injustice would be occasioned by

reason of ctpl’s insolvency. the consequence of upholding the final

garnishee order would be that hcpl would have its claim against ctpl

satisfied in full whereas uis would not be able to set-off its debt to ctpl

against claims that it might have against ctpl. however, this did not

warrant the setting aside of the final garnishee order. the provisional

garnishee order was made final at the show cause hearing without objection.

accordingly, as at that date, uis was obligated to pay the garnished sum to

hcpl which had acted diligently in enforcing its claim against ctpl. the

court of appeal expressed no views on whether the final garnishee order

would constitute a preferential discharge of hcpl’s claim against ctpl: at

[58], [60]-[62].





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.