supreme court of singapore



25 november 2019



case summary




red star marine consultants pte ltd v personal representatives of

satwant kaur d/o sardara singh, deceased and another


 

[2019] sgca 76




civil appeals no 15 of 2019




----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal justice

judith prakash):





outcome: court of appeal affirms the decision of the high court to

dismiss a company’s claim against the estate of a former employee who

conspired with the managing director of the claimant company to defraud the

company.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment:



· court of appeal holds that the answer to the question whether the court

should attribute the knowledge of the fraudulent director to the company is

always to be found in consideration of the context and the purpose for

which the attribution is relevant.




1 the appellant, red star marine consultants pte ltd, is a company engaged

in the business of marine consultancy. dhanvinder singh s/o karam singh

(“mr singh”) and his wife, ms kathelene wilhemina rappa (“ms rappa”), are

the only directors and shareholders of the appellant. mr singh is the

managing director of the appellant. the first respondent (“the estate”)

represents the estate of satwant kaur d/o sardara singh (“ms kaur”). ms

kaur was employed by the appellant from 2001 to 2012 as the personal

secretary of mr singh. the second respondent was a sister of the late ms

kaur.




2 between 2006 and 2012, ms kaur obtained sums totalling s$1,633,875.20

from the appellant.

ms kaur utilised these moneys to purchase and/or pay the premiums for a

number of insurance policies on her own life. she also purchased properties

with these funds. on or about 5 september 2012, ms rappa discovered

incriminating documents belonging to ms kaur. on 15 september 2012, mr

singh lodged a police report alleging that ms kaur had misappropriated the

appellant’s moneys. in the course of investigations, ms kaur gave a total

of eight statements to the police, in which she admitted that she had taken

various sums of money from the appellant. however, she alleged that this

was with the consent and knowledge of mr singh.




3 ms kaur was eventually charged by the police in october 2014. in january

2016, she was granted a discharge not amounting to an acquittal. not long

after, on 8 may 2016, ms kaur passed away from cancer. on 8 june 2016, the

appellant filed the present action against the estate, claiming for losses

resulting from ms kaur’s alleged fraud, breach of trust, fiduciary duties

and/or duty of loyalty and fidelity. the appellant joined the second

respondent in the action on 29 may 2017, claiming that she had used money

from ms kaur to acquire several properties.




4 the high court judge (“the judge”) dismissed the appellant’s claims

against the estate and the second respondent on the principal ground that

mr singh was aware of and consented to ms kaur’s taking of moneys belonging

to the appellant. the judge also held that the appellant’s claim against

the estate was largely time-barred in any event. the judge also dismissed

the appellant’s claim against the second respondent for knowing receipt on

the ground that such a claim must be premised on the existence of a breach

of trust or fiduciary duty and this had not been established as against ms

kaur.




5 the main issues on appeal were (1) whether ms kaur was privy to the

fraud; (2) whether mr singh was privy to the fraud; and (3) whether, in the

light of the answers to the first two issues, the appellant should be

allowed to recover from the estate.



the court’s decision 



6 on the first issue, the court accepted that ms kaur was privy to the

fraud. ms kaur was unable to explain why mr singh had transferred large

sums of the appellant’s money to her. the purported explanations that ms

kaur gave to the police when they were investigating the fraud allegations

were unconvincing (at [17] to [23]).




7 on the second issue, the court agreed with the judge that mr singh was

privy to the fraud. the appellant was effectively a two-person operation

run by mr singh and ms kaur. business at the company was brisk. mr singh

must have known the rates which the appellant charged for its services, and

thus he would have had in mind reasonable estimates as to the profits that

the appellant should have been earning. he could not have been unaware of

the fraud perpetrated against the appellant, especially when the

appellant’s accounts indicated that the appellant was earning only $10,000

to $20,000 a year in profits from 2006 to 2010. the appellant was not a

sprawling multi-million dollar company, and the amount drained out from the

appellant’s coffers were many times its profits (at [26]).




8 the third issue turned on the question of whether the appellant was

precluded, by the doctrine of illegality, from claiming against the estate.

this in turn required the court to determine whether mr singh’s acts and

knowledge should be attributed to the appellant. there are three distinct

rules of attribution:




a. first, the primary rules of attribution found in the company’s

constitution or in general company law, which vest certain powers in bodies

such as the board of directors or the shareholders acting as a whole.




b. secondly, general rules of attribution comprising the principles of

agency which allow for liability in contract for the acts done by other

persons within their actual or ostensible scope of authority, and vicarious

liability in tort.




c. thirdly, special rules of attribution fashioned by the court in

situations where a rule of law, either expressly or by implication,

excludes the attribution on the basis of the general principles of agency

or vicarious liability




9 the court held that the primary rules of attribution are not engaged in

this case. there is a need for collective action of the board of directors

in managing the business of the company; such action may be manifested by

way of resolutions of the board of directors at meetings convened and

conducted in accordance with the company’s constitution or informal assent

of all directors of a company. in the present case, there is no evidence

that the payments to ms kaur were authorised by any resolution. and while

informal assent of all directors may suffice, there is no evidence that ms

rappa, who was then the only other director on the board of the appellant,

knew about and agreed to those payments. indeed, it is inconceivable that

she would have agreed to a course of conduct that was so clearly against

her own interests. the court also held that the general rules of

attribution are not relevant for the purposes of establishing an illegality

defence. this is because, for the defence of illegality to apply, the

appellant must itself be responsible for the wrong (at [36

]).




10 this case therefore concerned the special rules of attribution. the

court reiterated that these rules are context-specific and their content

should be determined based on the language and purpose of the substantive

law upon which potential liability is to be established. there is no hard

and fast rule or even presumption that the knowledge or conduct of a sole

director or shareholder must be attributed to the company. instead, the

court must consider both the legal and factual context of the case (at [    37] to [41]).




11 the legal rule which is sought to be applied in relation to the company

is the defence of illegality. thus, the court must ask itself whether

allowing the appellant’s claim (which could only be done if mr singh’s

knowledge and acts were not attributed to the appellant) would be

consistent with the purpose of the defence of illegality. the court held

that it would not. the appellant is essentially a one-man company run and

owned by mr singh. if the court were to allow the appellant’s claim against

the estate, mr singh would be, effectively, the sole beneficiary of the

claim whether by way of increased dividends or director’s fees or even the

lion’s share of the assets upon the appellant’s winding-up (if such should

occur). in other words, if the appeal were allowed, the court would

effectively be assisting mr singh (who for all practical purposes owns all

of the shares in the appellant) to recover the fruits of his illegal

conspiracy with ms kaur to defraud the appellant of its moneys (at [    42] and [43]).




12 the court also observed that the factual context of the present case is

different from the cases cited by the parties. unlike in those cases, where

the companies in question were in liquidation and the liquidators were

suing the auditors on behalf of the unsecured creditors, the appellant is

still a going concern and mr singh is still very much in control of the

appellant. he is therefore in a position to benefit from his fraudulent

conduct should the appeal be allowed (at [44] to [    47]).




13 accordingly, the court attributed mr singh’s knowledge and acts relating

to the fraud to the appellant. the result was that the loss should lay

where it fell and the appellant was precluded from claiming against the

estate and the second respondent. the appeal was therefore dismissed (at [    49]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.