supreme court of singapore



19 november 2019



case summary


lim chit foo v public prosecutor 

[2019] sgca 70




criminal motion no 9 of 2019





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):





outcome: the court of appeal establishes that the statutory basis

for the standing down of pending charges is s 238 of the criminal procedure

code.



facts



1 the applicant faces multiple pending criminal charges in relation to his

alleged involvement in a large-scale fraudulent scheme perpetrated on the

inland revenue authority of singapore, which involved in essence the

submission of false claims for the productivity and innovation credit

scheme. half of these pending criminal charges are faced by the applicant

individually (“the individual charges”) whereas the remaining are faced by

the applicant together with two co-accused persons (“the joint charges”).

at the pre-trial stage, the prosecution indicated that it wished to proceed

with the individual charges at one trial, and to proceed with the joint

charges at a separate trial after the disposal of the individual charges.

the prosecution thus applied for the joint charges to be stood down for the

time being. the applicant objected to this course, and filed a criminal

motion for, among other things, leave to state a case directly to the court

of appeal on questions of law relating broadly to the legality of the

attorney-general purporting to exercise his discretion to prosecute the

applicant’s multiple charges over the course of separate and consecutive

trials. at the hearing of the criminal motion, the issue centred on the

statutory basis for the practice of standing down charges, and the hearing

was adjourned for parties to tender further written submissions on this

issue.



decision of the court of appeal



2 the standing down of charges generally refers to situations where an

accused person faces multiple charges, and a decision is made by the

prosecution to proceed with some of these by way of a trial or in a plead

guilty mention, while the remaining charges are stood down or “put on

hold”, meaning that they are temporarily held in abeyance. the stood down

charges may later be taken into consideration for the purposes of

sentencing, they may be proceeded with in separate proceedings or they may

be withdrawn: (at [14]).




3 the statutory basis for the standing down of charges is 238 of the cpc,

which provides for the power of courts to postpone or adjourn proceedings.

even though the attorney-general has the constitutional power to initiate,

conduct and discontinue criminal proceedings, this refers to the discretion

to initiate, maintain and terminate criminal prosecutions. the

management of criminal proceedings as a whole, on the other hand, is

clearly a function and responsibility of the court: (at    [18], [22]).




4 the practice of standing down charges is to be properly situated within

the court’s duty to supervise and fairly manage criminal proceedings, and

not within the prosecution’s discretion to conduct criminal prosecutions.

this is because the effect of charges being stood down is that they are

postponed with the specific intent that they will be heard or otherwise

disposed of at a later time. this necessarily means that there is an

adjournment of proceedings within the meaning of s 238 of the cpc. this

also follows from the fact that once charges have been brought before the

court, criminal proceedings are afoot in respect of those charges. it would

be wrong in principle to conceptualise the practice of standing down

charges as falling within the prosecution’s discretion, as this would give

the prosecution unfettered control over the conduct of criminal proceedings

before the court: (at [23], [24], [25]).




5 where an accused person faces multiple pending charges and the

prosecution applies for some of these charges to be stood down, the court

will not interfere with the decision of which charges are to be proceed

with and which are to be stood down. in the majority of cases where both

parties are agreed on a course of action, this should be given considerable

weight unless there is a real risk of injustice. but where the accused

person objects to the pending charges being stood down and contends that a

particular course gives rise to a risk of injustice, the prosecution’s

application will then be subject to judicial scrutiny: (at    [30]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.