supreme court of singapore



19 november 2019



case summary


sim tee meng v haw wan sin david and another

[2019] sgca 71





civil appeal no 14 of 2019




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal judith

prakash):





outcome: court of appeal affirmed that a company’s key executive officer

owed a personal duty of care to customers arising out of his interactions

with them, and was personally liable for representations he made to them.



pertinent and significant points of the grounds of decision



· where the questions to be dealt with in the appeal were not specifically

delineated in the order granting leave to appeal, the whole matter dealt

with in the court below could be re-ventilated in this court (at [    31]).




· the finding that the appellant was personally liable for the

misrepresentations he made to the respondents notwithstanding that he was

acting as the key executive officer of a limited company at the time was in

accordance with well-established principle (at [47]).



background



1 this appeal raised the question as to the circumstances in which a key

executive officer (“keo”) and director of a limited company in business as

an estate agency can be found to be personally liable for representations

made to customers by him when such representations were made in the course

of his employment with the company and in order to promote the business of

the company.




2 the appellant was sim tee meng (“mr sim” or “the appellant”). he was at

all material times the keo of faber property pte ltd (“faber”), a limited

liability company incorporated in singapore. the respondents sued the

appellant, faber and one seah beng hoon (“ms seah”) for negligent

misrepresentation. faber was and still is an estate agency licensed by the

council of estate agencies. ms seah was an associate director of faber and

a licensed real estate salesperson. the respondents pleaded that in

reliance on certain representations the defendants made to them, they had

entered into various agreements with a new zealand company (“the

developer”) for a “first right of refusal” (“frr”) in respect of three

units in a residential housing project in new zealand (“the project”). the

developer subsequently went into insolvent liquidation and the respondents

suffered loss as a result.




3 the district judge (“the dj”) found that only faber was liable to the

respondents for negligent misrepresentation, and dismissed their claims

against the appellant and ms seah. the respondents then appealed against

part of the dj’s decision. the high court judge (“the judge”) allowed the

respondents’ appeal in respect of the appellant (mr sim), but dismissed

their appeal in respect of ms seah. the judge thus found the appellant

jointly and severally liable with faber to pay the respondents.




4 the appellant then sought and was granted leave to appeal to this court

against the high court’s decision. before this court, he argued that the

judge erred in: (1) overturning the dj’s factual finding that he did not

make the alleged representations; and (2) finding that he was personally

liable to the respondents for making those representations.



the court’s decision



5 the court made two preliminary points. first, unless the questions to be

dealt with in the appeal were specifically delineated in the order granting

leave to appeal, the whole matter dealt with in the court below could be

re-ventilated in this court (at [31]). second, whether an

appellate judge affirmed or reversed the findings of the court below after

scrutinising them and the evidence adduced before the court below, that

holding was the result of an analytical exercise and assessment and not an

exercise of discretion at all (at [32]).




6 the court upheld the judge’s finding of fact that the appellant had made

the alleged representations to the respondents (at [33]

and [34]).




7 as to the issue of whether a duty of care arose in tort, it was not

disputed that the preliminary requirement of factual foreseeability was

satisfied. the court also agreed with the judge that the requisite legal

proximity for the imposition of a duty of care on the appellant    vis-à-vis the respondents was present (at [36]).

first, when the respondents sought the appellant out, because as the keo he

could be expected to know whether the necessary due diligence checks had

been conducted for the project, and the appellant chose to make the

relevant representations knowing that the respondents were interested in

investing in the frr scheme, the appellant assumed personal responsibility

for those representations. no disclaimer of responsibility was made by the

appellant (at [39]). second, the respondents had relied on

the appellant’s representations when entering into the various agreements

with the developer (at [41]). moreover, there was no

policy consideration militating against imposing a duty of care on the

appellant. the finding that the appellant was personally liable for the

misrepresentations he made to the respondents notwithstanding that he was

acting as keo of faber at the time was in accordance with well-established

principle (at [47]).




8 accordingly, the court affirmed the judge’s holding that the appellant

owed a personal duty of care to the respondents arising out of his

interactions with them. the court also affirmed the judge’s holding that

the appellant breached this duty of care by failing to make reasonable

checks before making the relevant representations, and that he was thus

personally liable to the respondents (at [48]).








this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.