supreme court of singapore



19 november 2019



case summary




independent state of papua new guinea v png sustainable development

program ltd



[2019] sgca 72





civil appeal no 78 of 2019 (summons no 116 of 2019)



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by woo bih li j):





outcome: single-judge court of appeal dismisses respondent’s application

for stay of appeal pending appellant’s payment of costs below.



background



1 the applicant in summons no 116 of 2019 (“sum 116”), png sustainable

development program limited (“pngsdp”), is the respondent in the main

appeal, civil appeal no 78 of 2019 (“ca 78”). it succeeded before the high

court in defending the claims brought by the independent state of papua new

guinea (“the state”), and was awarded costs. the state filed ca 78 to

appeal against the high court judge’s decision to dismiss all of its claims

against pngsdp.




2 while the main appeal was pending, pngsdp filed sum 116 to stay the

appeal until the state paid the costs awarded by the high court totalling

$2,522,356.07 (the “outstanding sum”). pngsdp relied principally on the

court of appeal’s decision in the case of



roberto building material pte ltd and others v oversea-chinese banking

corp ltd and another



[2003] 2 slr(r) 353 (“roberto”), where it was recognised that the

appellate court has the inherent jurisdiction to stay an appeal until the

appellant paid to the respondent the costs awarded by the court below,

where the justice of the case so demanded.




3 pngsdp submitted that there were two factors which made the

circumstances of the present case exceptional such that a stay of the

appeal was justified. first, it suggested that the state was able but

simply unwilling to pay the outstanding sum and therefore was abusing

the process of the court in failing to comply with the costs orders.

second, pngsdp submitted that it would face difficulties enforcing the

various costs orders against the state because enforcement would have

to be undertaken in papua new guinea as the state was not within

singapore’s jurisdiction.




4 the state, on the other hand, denied pngsdp’s allegations that it was

able but unwilling to pay the outstanding sum. it explained that it faced

difficulties in paying the outstanding sum because of strict foreign

exchange controls in place in papua new guinea, which made it difficult for

it to transfer large sums of foreign currency at short notice. the state

also argued that pngsdp was seeking to stifle its right of appeal by

bringing the stay application.



the court of appeal’s decision 



5 the court of appeal dismissed sum 116. the court found that the two

allegations made by pngsdp (see [3] above) were not made out on the

evidence. hence, there was no basis for the stay to be granted (at    [38]).



abuse of process 



6 the court found that there was insufficient evidence to establish that

the state was deliberately and wilfully refusing to pay the outstanding

sum, and abusing the process of the court as a result (at [    40]). while there were some inadequacies in the evidence

given by the state on the reasons for its continued non-payment of the

outstanding sum, the inadequacies were insufficient to lead to the

conclusion that the state’s continued non-payment of the outstanding sum

was deliberate and wilful, and clearly an abuse of process of the court (at    [41]). in addition, there was also no connection between

the state’s past conduct in the proceedings below as alleged by pngsdp, and

the state’s present non-payment of the outstanding sum (at    [43]).



difficulties in enforcement 



7 the court also did not accept pngsdp’s allegations on the difficulties it

would face in enforcing the costs orders as there was a lack of evidence to

support its allegations. while pngsdp alleged that the state would utilise

certain provisions within the relevant papua new guinea legislation for

enforcement of judgments to stymie its attempts at enforcement, there was

no evidence to support its allegations (at [46]–    [48]).




8 the court observed that there are a number of english authorities which

suggest that the fact that the respondent is likely to face difficulties in

enforcing a judgment debt or costs order could be a compelling reason

(under the english civil procedure rules) for the appeal to be stayed

pending payment of the judgment debt or costs by the appellant. the court

stated that it is uncertain if the english approach will be adopted in

singapore, given the observation in roberto that a respondent may

well face difficulties in enforcing the costs order while the appeal is

pending, but that the appellate court should not be used as a means to

enable the respondent to obtain payment of his taxed costs. since pngsdp

failed to adduce any evidence of the difficulties it would face in

enforcing the costs orders, it was unnecessary for the court to decide the

point. nevertheless, the court observed that based on roberto, the

mere fact that enforcement proceedings would have to be commenced overseas

against a judgment debtor is unlikely to be sufficient to constitute a

special or exceptional reason for a stay to be granted as that would result

in a stay of appeal being granted in almost all cases where the appellant

resides in a foreign country. this would undermine the general principle

that a stay of an appeal pending payment of costs below should only be

granted in special or exceptional circumstances (at [51]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.