supreme court of singapore



18 november 2019



case summary




st group co ltd and others v sanum investments limited and another

appeal



[2019] sgca 65




civil appeals no 113 and 114 of 2018





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal judith

prakash):





outcome: coa holds that an arbitral award that is made in a seat

of arbitration not chosen by the parties will not be enforced.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· a party who objects to the jurisdiction of the tribunal but does not

participate in the arbitration proceedings at all would still be able to

rely on that objection in setting aside or enforcement proceedings taken

after the issue of the final award (at [92]).




· once an arbitration is wrongly seated, any award that ensues should not

be recognised and enforced by other jurisdictions because such award had

not been obtained in accordance with the parties’ arbitration agreement (at    [102]).




· it is not necessary for a party who is resisting enforcement of an award

arising out of a wrongly seated arbitration to demonstrate actual prejudice

arising from the wrong seat. it is sufficient that had the arbitration been

correctly seated a different supervisory court would have been available to

the parties for recourse (at [103]).






background to the appeals



1 the appeals arose out of a court order granting leave for the enforcement

of an arbitration award. sanum investments limited (“sanum”), a company

incorporated in macau and carrying on business in the gaming industry, was

the claimant in the arbitration. the respondents to the arbitration

proceedings were st group co, ltd (“st group”), st vegas co ltd (“st

vegas”), st vegas enterprise ltd (“stv enterprise”) and mr sithat

xaysoulivong (“mr sithat”, collectively “the lao parties”). st group owns

business interests in various industries in laos. st vegas and stv

enterprise are affiliated with st group. mr sithat is the president of st

group and stv enterprise. sanum obtained an arbitration award in its favour

and obtained leave to enforce the same in singapore. the high court judge

(“the judge”) in the court below denied sanum leave to enforce the award

against stv enterprise but affirmed sanum’s right to enforce the award

against the rest of the lao parties.



facts



2 the dispute between the parties (“the dispute”) arose out of an

arrangement involving a slot club in laos (“the thanaleng slot club”). st

vegas holds the gaming license to operate the thanaleng slot club. in 2007,

sanum entered into a “master agreement” which contained an obligation to

hand over the thanaleng slot club to sanum upon the expiration of certain

agreements with third party slot machine operators on 11 october 2011 (“the

turnover obligation”). the master agreement contained a dispute resolution

clause, which set out a multi-tiered dispute resolution process. the clause

appeared to contemplate the possibility that parties could go to

international arbitration over their dispute, even if they had already

obtained a decision of the supreme court of laos over the same dispute. the

clause ended with the following sentence: “if one of the parties is

unsatisfied with the results of the above procedure, the parties shall

mediate and, if necessary, arbitrate such dispute using an internationally

recognized mediation/arbitration company in macau, sar prc”.




3 the master agreement stated that the parties would enter into

sub-agreements. sanum entered into one such sub-agreement in 2007 with stv

enterprise in relation to two other slot clubs run by stv enterprise (“the

participation agreement”). the participation agreement also contained a

multi-tiered dispute resolution clause. that dispute resolution clause

contained a portion that read: “if one of the parties is unsatisfied with

the results of the decision or judgment of the above procedure, the parties

shall mediate and, if necessary, arbitrate such dispute using an

internationally recognized mediation/arbitration at the singapore

international arbitration centre (siac), singapore and the rules of siac

shall be applied”. that clause also stated that the arbitral tribunal

should consist of three arbitrators.




4 subsequently between 2008 and 2010, sanum entered into three

sub-agreements relating to the thanaleng slot club. none of these three

sub-agreements contained a dispute resolution clause.




5 according to sanum, between 2008 and 2011, it invested heavily into the

thanaleng slot club. two months before the 11 october 2011, sanum received

an e-mail from st group disputing the date of the turnover obligation,

claiming that the date was 12 april 2012 instead. sanum considered this a

breach of contract. it tried to negotiate with st group to find a way

forward but the negotiations failed. on 1 march 2012, sanum initiated local

arbitration proceedings in a lao dispute resolution centre. while these

proceedings were afoot, st group and all its affiliated companies declared

that it considered that all agreements relating to the thanaleng slot club

were terminated and refused to admit any of sanum’s personnel. sanum’s

claim in the local arbitration proceedings were dismissed on 21 may 2012.




6 sanum and the lao parties were subsequently engaged in lao court

proceedings, culminating in a judgment by the apex court of laos on 4 april

2014, which affirmed the decision of the lower courts in favour of the lao

parties.




7 on 15 july 2015, sanum filed a request a mediation with the singapore

international mediation centre, but the lao parties and other related

parties named in the mediation refused to participate. sanum then commenced

arbitration proceedings under the rules of the singapore international

arbitration centre (“siac”). in its notice of arbitration, sanum stated

that the seat of the arbitration was macau. the lao parties objected to the

siac arbitration. the siac noted the objections and informed the parties

that it was satisfied that a valid arbitration under the siac rules

existed. after this, the lao parties did not participate further in the

arbitration. relying on the dispute resolution clause in the participation

agreement, the siac proceeded on the basis that the parties had agreed to a

three-member tribunal, and thus, a three-member tribunal was appointed by

the siac (“the tribunal”). the tribunal rendered its final award on 22

august 2016 (“the award”).




8 in the award, the tribunal ruled that the participation agreement

amplified and supplemented the dispute resolution procedure set out in the

master agreement. the tribunal thus found that it had jurisdiction to

determine the claims made by sanum against st group, mr sithat, st vegas

and stv enterprise because they were signatories to the master agreement or

the participation agreement. the tribunal also determined that singapore

was the seat of arbitration because the participation agreement

specifically provided for arbitration at siac in singapore. the tribunal

found that the master agreement, the participation agreement and the three

sub-agreements in relation to the thanaleng slot club (collectively, “the

five agreements”) had to be read together in order to determine the

intentions and agreement of the parties in relation to the thanaleng slot

club. the tribunal concluded that the lao parties had breached the five

agreements in so far as they concerned the thanaleng slot club and awarded

sanum damages amounting to us$200m for breach of contract, as well as

further sums for legal expenses, costs of the arbitration and interest.




9 shortly after the award was issued, on 7 september 2016, sanum obtained

leave to enforce the award in singapore against the lao parties. this led

to a series of court applications, which culminated in the present appeals.

sanum appealed against the judge’s decision to deny leave to enforce the

award against stv enterprise. st group, st vegas and mr sithat appealed

against the judge’s decision to allow sanum to enforce the award against

them. in its judgment, the court of appeal dealt with six issues.



the court of appeal’s decision


(1) 
under which agreement did the dispute arise?






10 the court of appeal agreed with the judge that the dispute only involved

a breach of the master agreement and did not arise under any other of the

five agreements. the court of appeal rejected sanum’s argument that the

dispute also arose out of the participation agreement. the alleged breach

of the turnover obligation was the crux of the dispute, and the turnover

obligation involved the thanaleng slot club. yet, there was no express

mention of the thanaleng slot club in the participation agreement. stv

enterprise, the counter party to the participation agreement, did not own

and manage thanaleng slot club. st vegas, who held the relevant gaming

licenses to the thanaleng slot club, was not a party to the participation

agreement, and thus it would not make sense to incorporate obligations

relating to the thanaleng slot club into the participation agreement. if it

were truly the parties’ intentions that the turnover obligation would be

incorporated into the participation agreement, they would have ensured that

this was spelt out plainly in the participation agreement. at the time when

the dispute arose, sanum did not assert that the participation agreement

was breached and it was only years later in the notice of arbitration in

september 2015 that sanum first mentioned the participation agreement in

the context of the dispute. in the circumstances, the arbitration was

founded only on the dispute resolution clause contained within the master

agreement and it was critical to determine who the parties to the master

agreement were (at [50], [51],    [52] and [53]).



(2) 
who were the parties to the master agreement?






11 the court of appeal agreed with the judge that st group, st vegas and mr

sithat were parties to the master agreement (and thus bound by the dispute

resolution clause contained within) but that stv enterprise was not a party

to the master agreement. the portion containing the signatures of the

parties to the master agreement contained four signatures from mr sithat.

once on behalf of st group, twice on behalf of st vegas and once under a

section labelled “sithat xaysoulivong, as an individual”. the master

agreement contemplated that individuals could be parties to the master

agreement. st group, st vegas and mr sithat were also expressly listed as

parties to the contract in the first portion of the master agreement. stv

enterprise was not listed as a party to the contract in the first portion

of the master agreement and there was no signature appended on behalf of

stv enterprise (at [56], [59] and    [60]).




12 since stv enterprise was not bound by the dispute resolution clause

contained in the master agreement, it was not bound by the arbitration

founded on that clause. as such, the court of appeal found that the judge

was right to deny sanum leave to enforce the award against stv enterprise

and sanum’s appeal was dismissed (at [61]).



(3) 



was the dispute resolution clause in the master agreement a valid

arbitration clause to begin with?









13 the court of appeal noted that there was a potential issue with the

validity of a multi-tiered dispute resolution clause such as the one in the

master agreement. in effect, the clause would allow the parties to appeal

against concluded national court proceedings using an arbitral tribunal

appointed by the parties. however, the court of appeal ultimately declined

to determine the appeal on the basis of this issue. the validity of the

dispute resolution clause had to be determined with reference to its

governing law. in this case, the governing law was lao law. unfortunately,

there was no expert opinion on lao law in respect of this specific issue.

the onus was on the lao parties to prove that the clause was invalid under

lao law but they had not done so. the court of appeal declined to presume

that lao law was similar to singapore law and analyse the dispute

resolution clause on the basis of singapore arbitration law principles.

this would be changing the nature of the arguments at too late a stage: the

point on validity was not raised by the lao parties during the arbitration

nor in the court below. this point was also not raised by the lao parties

on appeal: it was the court that brought up this issue. it would be

unsatisfactory to decide a case on the basis of an assumption as to content

of a foreign law when doing so might mean deciding it in favour of the

party with the burden of proof who knew or should have known what it had to

prove and did not do so (at [69], [70],[71], [72], [73] and    [74]).



(4) 

were the correct seat and composition of the tribunal chosen?




14 the court of appeal agreed with the judge that the proper interpretation

of the dispute resolution clause was that macau was to be the seat of

arbitration. this was the most natural interpretation of the wording in the

dispute resolution clause and also accorded with what the parties intended,

as evidenced from the record of the arbitration hearings (at[79], [80], [81],[82], [83], [84] and    [85]).




15 the court of appeal also agreed with the judge that a sole arbitrator

should have been appointed. the dispute resolution clause in the master

agreement was completely silent on the composition of the arbitral

tribunal. under the applicable siac rules, the default position in such a

scenario would be the appointment of a sole arbitrator. although the

registrar of the siac had the discretion to appoint three arbitrators

instead, the three arbitrators were not appointed pursuant to such

discretion. instead, the appointment of three arbitrators was based on the

mistaken premise that the participation agreement was applicable to the

dispute submitted (at [87], [88] and     [89]).



(5) 



did any waiver or estoppel arise in relation to seat and

composition?






16 the court of appeal found that there was no waiver or estoppel in

relation to the erroneous seat and composition of the tribunal. the court

of appeal held that a party who objected to the jurisdiction of the

tribunal but did not participate in the arbitration proceedings at all

would still be able to rely on that objection in setting aside or

enforcement proceedings taken after the issue of the final award (at    [92]).



(6) 



what effect do mistakes as to seat and composition of panel have?






17 the court of appeal held that once an arbitration is wrongly seated, in

the absence of waiver of the wrong seat, any award that ensues should not

be recognised and enforced by other jurisdictions because such award had

not been obtained in accordance with the parties’ arbitration agreement.

the choice of seat was one of the most important matters for parties to

consider when negotiating an arbitration agreement. this choice resulted in

a number of significant legal consequences. the law of the seat governed a

number of important matters relating to arbitration, for example, the

judicial power to appoint and remove arbitrator or the validity and

finality of the award resulting from the arbitral proceedings. the choice

of the seat also represented a choice of forum for remedies. the fact that

the erroneously chosen seat and the correct seat were, like in the case of

singapore and macau, both jurisdictions that applied the uncitral model law

on international commercial arbitration (“the model law”) did not lessen

the significance of the choice of seat. this was because in adopting the

model law, each jurisdiction may augment or reduce the grounds for setting

aside in such jurisdiction. additionally, different national courts

approach arbitration-related applications in different ways (at[96], [97], [98],    [99], [100] and [102]).




18 the court of appeal held that it was not necessary for a party who is

resisting enforcement of an award arising out of a wrongly seated

arbitration to demonstrate actual prejudice arising from the wrong seat. it

was sufficient that had the arbitration been correctly seated a different

supervisory court would have been the one to which the parties would have

had recourse in case of need. since the choice made by the parties was to

seat the arbitration under the master agreement in macau, the arbitration

was wrongly seated. the court of appeal thus allowed st group, st vegas and

mr sithat’s appeal and refused leave to sanum to enforce the award against

these three parties (at [103] and [104]).




19 the court of appeal declined to deal with the effect of an error in the

composition of the tribunal because the finding in relation to the effect

of a wrong choice of seat disposed of st group, st vegas and mr sithat’s

appeal and it was also difficult in this case to disentangle the effect of

the wrong composition of the tribunal from the adverse impact of the wrong

choice of seat (at [108])





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.