supreme court of singapore



18 november 2019



case summary




yashwant bajaj v toru ueda [2019] sgca 69



civil appeal no 121 of 2018





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by senior judge chao hick

tin):





outcome: coa allows appeal and sets aside a statutory demand.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment:



the appeal was allowed and the statutory demand set aside on the basis that

the debts in the statutory demand had not accrued as of the date of that

demand as a result of the qualified nature of the values on which the debts

were based.




1 this was an appeal against the decision of the lower court dismissing the

appellant’s application to set aside a statutory demand. the court of

appeal allowed the appeal, and set aside the statutory demand.



background to the appeal



2 the parties were partners in a fund management business. they were the

sole directors and equal shareholders of hachiman capital management

(“hcm”), which managed a hedge fund in japan, known as the hachiman japan

fund (“the fund”). from 2004 to 2009, when the fund was managed in japan,

the business activities were conducted through ty advisors japan, a branch

of ty advisors registered in japan. the parties were directors and equal

shareholders in ty advisors. from 2009 to 2011, they managed the fund in

singapore, and for that purpose, they incorporated in singapore hachiman

capital management private limited (“hcm singapore”), a wholly-owned

subsidiary of hcm. in september 2010, the parties decided to close the

business of the fund, and they entered into an agreement on the division of

the business assets. unfortunately, they could not agree on some subsequent

transactions and business decisions as well as the nature and scope of

their agreement: [3]–[6].




3 the parties entered into a settlement agreement (the “settlement

agreement”) to settle their dispute. by the settlement agreement, the

parties agreed that a neutral evaluation of the assets by an independent

accountant (“the assessor”) be undertaken. the assessor was to “calculate

and populate” the entries in tables x and y attached to the settlement

agreement, in order to calculate the settlement amount to be paid by one

party to the other for the settlement of the dispute. it was also agreed

that the assessor’s calculations would be “final and binding”. clause 6 of

the settlement agreement stipulated that both parties were to bear the fees

and expenses of the assessor and the singapore mediation centre (“smc”)

equally. clause 10 of the settlement agreement further provided that the

appellant was to pay the respondent us$50,000 (the “clause 10 sum”). the

parties also signed a neutral evaluation agreement, by which they consented

to an assessor being appointed and they agreed to a “documents-only neutral

evaluation” to be governed by the smc neutral evaluation rules (the

“evaluation rules”): [7] and [9].



facts



4 the neutral evaluation process took place from 2015 to 2017. the assessor

released his report in november 2017 (the “evaluation report”). the long

delay in the process was due mostly, if not all, to the appellant’s conduct

in not attending a clarification hearing, delaying the scheduling of a

meeting with the assessor, objecting to the respondent’s submitted

documents and raising issues irrelevant to the evaluation process:    [10]–[19].




5 the assessor decided to issue a qualified opinion, because it was

apparent that any further attempts to get the parties’ agreement on the

underlying documents were futile. the assessor stated in his report that he

was unable to wholly carry out the terms of reference of his appointment

due to the various disagreements between the parties. he stated that he had

considered issuing an opinion based on the documents submitted by the

respondent alone but was unable to do so because he felt it would be

inconsistent with the principle of natural justice. thus, he gave a set of

values for tables x and y in his evaluation report that were “subject to

adjustments”, and a settlement amount payable from the appellant to the

respondent that was “subject to changes depending on adjustments that

[might] result from” (a) the parties reaching agreement on the disputed

documents, or (b) the parties agreeing to resolve the disputed documents by

appointing an independent auditor to perform an audit of the financial

statements of hcm. the respondent had paid all the fees and expenses of the

assessor and the smc to procure the release of the evaluation report:    [19]–[24].




6 following the issuance of the evaluation report, the respondent served a

statutory demand on the appellant demanding payment of the settlement

amount, the clause 10 sum and the appellant’s share of the fees under cl 6

of the settlement agreement (the “clause 6 sum”). the appellant paid for

his share of the fees under cl 6 of the settlement agreement before the

hearing of the appeal. however, the appellant challenged the settlement

amount and the clause 10 sum on the basis that the debts had not accrued:    [27], [40] and [50].



decision on appeal



7 the question of whether the settlement amount that the assessor arrived

at was an accrued debt in turn depended on whether he had abided by his

terms of reference, and this was a matter of contractual interpretation of

the settlement agreement and the other terms agreed between the parties:

[56].




8 in the present case, to “calculate and populate” as provided in the

settlement agreement must necessarily mean to determine values with

certainty. it meant that the assessor had to reach a set of values for

tables x and y that was definite and settled, incorporating his

professional expertise. this construction was further buttressed by the

word “final” in the settlement agreement, which meant that the decision was

not to be subject to review. there needed to be a determination of the

calculations that was definite and settled, and in turn, a determination of

the settlement amount that was certain and not subject to review. the

requirement of a determination of a final settlement amount was consonant

with the objective intention of the parties in entering into the settlement

agreement in the first place – to resolve completely the dispute between

them by appointing an independent accountant to determine the values they

were unable to agree on: [60].




9 further, looking at the wording of the terms of reference as encapsulated

in the neutral evaluation agreement and the evaluation rules, the court did

not find any indication of any objective intention of the parties to accept

a qualified set of calculations as “final”: [61].




10 thus, the values in tables x and y in the evaluation report were not

calculations and populations falling under the settlement agreement,

because the values were subject to adjustments. the settlement amount that

the assessor stated was likewise not a calculation under the settlement

agreement. this was because the values might have to be adjusted and were

not final. therefore, no settlement amount was due from the appellant to

the respondent. the statutory demand had to be set aside. the present

circumstances fell not only within r 98(2)(b) of the bankruptcy

rules (cap 20, r 1, 2006 rev ed) for setting aside a statutory demand, but

also within r 98(2)(e) of the bankruptcy rules because no debt was

in fact due: [65] and [72].




11 the court of appeal agreed with the court below that the appellant had

adopted delaying tactics during the evaluation process, in breach of his

contractual duty to cooperate. however, the court of appeal did not agree

with the court below that the statutory demand should not be set aside on

the principle that that a party in default under a contract cannot take

advantage of his own breach to gain a benefit or evade his contractual

obligation. it was ultimately the assessor’s decision to give a qualified

opinion, so the contractual benefit that the appellant was asserting was

not a direct result of his breach of his duty to cooperate. the appellant’s

breach of contract could not render valid an otherwise uncertain debt so as

to enable the alleged creditor to issue a statutory demand in respect

thereof: [73], [74],    [77] and [78].




12 as regards the clause 10 sum, the court of appeal also held that there

were substantial grounds to dispute that it was due as a debt. clause 17 of

the settlement agreement stated that “[a]ll payments arising from this

settlement agreement [were] to be made in the following manner from the

date of the independent accountant’s report...”. from the language of cl

17, it was clear that the clause 10 sum was tied to the settlement amount

such that one total final amount was to be paid by the paying party.

another way of looking at the issue was that the clause 10 sum was not due

yet because there was no “independent accountant’s report” for the purposes

of the settlement agreement: [81].



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.