supreme court of singapore



15 november 2019



case summary




adinop co ltd v rovithai limited and dsm singapore industrial pte ltd



[2019] sgca 67




civil appeal no 108 of 2018





----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice belinda ang saw

ean):





outcome: coa allows appeal in part against the hc’s decision that

the first respondent did not breach its duty of confidence owed to the

appellant in relation to certain confidential information.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· coa clarifies the difference between duty of confidence in contract and

in equity.




1 this was an appeal against the decision of the high court in hc/s

1267/2015.



 


background



2 from sometime around the 1990s until mid-2014, the appellant (adinop co

ltd (“adinop”)) was the first respondent’s (rovithai limited (“rovithai”))

distributor in thailand for “standard dsm products”. rovithai and the

second respondent (dsm singapore industrial pte ltd (“dsm singapore”)) are

part of the dsm group of companies (“dsm group”), a multi-national group

active in research, development, manufacture and sale of ingredients for

feed, food, pharmaceutics and cosmetics. standard dsm products are

essentially the respondents’ human nutrition and health ingredients for the

food and beverage industry in thailand.




3 the information at issue in this appeal relates to two documents which

adinop shared with the first respondent that contained, amongst other

things, the identities of adinop’s customers who were purchasing or were

intending to purchase standard dsm products. the two documents in question

are called the “key customers list” and the “ongoing projects list”. in

this case summary, “customer information” refers to the customer

information contained in the said documents. the two documents will

collectively be referred to as “the lists”.




4 adinop sued the respondents for breach of a confidentiality agreement

signed between them on 22 october 2013. the complaint is that the

respondents had misused the customer information in the lists to notify

adinop’s customers of the change of distributor from adinop to a new

distributor, rama production co ltd (“rama”) on 1 july 2014 (“the notice”).

on the same complaint, adinop sued the respondents, in the alternative, for

breach of their obligations of confidentiality arising in equity in

relation to the misuse of the customer information. adinop was unsuccessful

in its claims against both respondents in the high court and now appeals

against that decision.



decision on appeal



5 the legal framework within which the duty of confidence falls to be

decided where such duty arises from a contract between the parties is

distinct from the legal framework within which the duty of confidence

arises in equity. it is important not to conflate the two types of duty of

confidence at the outset. confidentiality obligations arising out of a

contract do not necessarily bear the same contours as obligations of

confidentiality in equity. however, in circumstances where it is determined

that the scope of the confidentiality obligation owed in contract and in

equity are the same, liability in both contact and in equity may be

established (at [37]).




6 when there is a confidentiality agreement between the parties, as in this

case, the confidentiality provisions as expressed in that agreement will

primarily determine the existence and scope of the contractual obligations

owed by the parties. the court will construe the express terms of the

confidentiality agreement, applying the usual principles of contractual

interpretation, to determine the extent of the confidentiality obligations.

plainly, by the express terms in a confidentiality agreement, the parties

may simply agree that certain information disclosed between them are not to

be used. in this situation, the parties would have agreed to treat that

information as confidential even though, on an analysis of equitable

principles, the information may not have the necessary quality of

confidentiality (at [38] and [40]).




7 where there is a stipulated contractual duty of confidence, the court

will not, ordinarily, impose additional or more extensive obligation of

confidentiality in equity. however, there are occasions when equity may

step in to impose a duty of confidence, where, for instance, “the contract

does not necessarily assuage conscience, and equity may yet give force to

conscience” (at [40]).




8 on the other hand, a duty of confidence can also arise in the absence of

a contractual relationship or if there is no express contractual

stipulation of confidentiality. equity may impose a duty of confidence

whenever a person receives information possessing the necessary quality of

confidence in circumstances importing an obligation of confidentiality (at

[41]).



contractual duty of confidence



9 the confidentiality agreement in this case provides a framework for

determining whether information disclosed between adinop and rovithai

during the confidentiality period constitutes confidential information. if

it constitutes confidential information, the confidentiality agreement

limits adinop’s and rovithai’s use and treatment of that information except

in certain prescribed circumstances (at [44]).




10 coa held that the customer information constituted confidential

information as defined under the confidentiality agreement. for a

distributor like adinop, its list of customers matched against detailed

information derived from business dealings with these customers is a core

aspect of its business and is without doubt of value to a distributor like

adinop. it represents the distributor’s market reach and important

clientele. the lists created in this way would constitute “proprietary

information” that was “developed” by adinop and that such information

possessed by adinop related to adinop’s business, thus falling within the

meaning of confidential information under the confidentiality agreement.

furthermore, none of the information in the lists are in the public domain.

since both the key customers list and ongoing projects list contained

confidentiality marking (as is required under the confidentiality

agreement), the use of the information in these documents (ie., the

customer information) are subjected to the restrictions under the

confidentiality agreement. (at [57], [59]

and [61]).




11 as for whether rovithai used the customer information, rovithai’s

issuance of the notice is prima facie evidence of use and breach

of the confidentiality agreement. the evidential burden therefore shifted

to rovithai to disprove use and it failed to discharge this burden. adinop

has on the balance of probabilities, shown that rovithai had used the

identities of the customers in the lists to send out the notice. rovithai,

on the other hand, did not adduce any evidence to show that it did not use

the lists but in fact used its own list of customers and/or the lists given

to it by rama (at [69], [77] to [    79]).




12 finally, on rovithai’s misuse of the customer information in breach of

the confidentiality agreement, the coa finds that “purpose” for which

confidential information could be used as defined under the confidentiality

agreement could only mean a purpose which would advance the distributorship

arrangement, not one which involved or would facilitate the change to a new

distributor. in the present case, the lists were requested by rovithai for

the purpose of assisting “[adinop] in marketing efforts to maintain and/or

grow the customer base”. the use of the lists to notify adinop’s customers

of the termination of the distributorship arrangement with adinop was not a

purpose for which confidential information was disclosed pursuant to the

confidentiality agreement (at [80], [82]

and [83]).



equitable obligations of confidence



13 the coa finds that rovithai is bound by a duty of confidence in equity

having applied the principles of good faith and conscience. any reasonable

person in the position of rovithai would have known on reasonable grounds

that the information was confidential and given to it in confidence. here,

the lists were disclosed by adinop at the request of rovithai. rovithai had

informed adinop that the documents would be used in order for rovithai to

support adinop as distributor under the distributorship arrangement.

rovithai’s conscience was therefore bound in that it could not use the

customer information for purposes other than the stated purpose for which

it was requested in the first place (at [87] to [    89]).




14 having found that rovithai did use the customer information to send out

the notice, the coa finds that rovithai’s use of the information was

unauthorised. first, the identities of adinop’s customers in the lists

formed the most material part of the documents having regard to the make-up

and purpose of the lists, which was to, inter alia, profile adinop’s key

customers. without the names, there was no way for rovithai to know who

adinop’s key customers were and what products those customers purchased in

order to grow dsm’s market share. the notice was targeted at important

customers to retain their business. second, unauthorised use can be

properly inferred. rovithai had used the customer information for issuing

the notice and that was a use of the information not contemplated by adinop

when it disclosed that information to rovithai. third, there is no implicit

authority given by adinop to rovithai for rovithai to use the information

to facilitate the termination of their distributorship arrangement. fourth,

rovithai had no legitimate interest to send out the notice (at [    93] to [99]).




15 finally, the notice was to adinop’s detriment. following the issuance of

the notice, five of adinop’s customers who had placed orders for dsm

products prior to the notice were cancelled (at [100]).



dsm singapore’s involvement



16 the coa finds that there was insufficient evidence to show that dsm

singapore was involved in the sending out of the notice and dismissed

adinop’s appeal on this point (at [101]).



damages to be assessed



17 being a bifurcated trial, the coa orders that the case be remitted to

the high court for damages to be assessed (at [104]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.