supreme court of singapore



15 november 2019



case summary




mch international pte ltd and others v yg group pte ltd and others and

other appeals



[2019] sgca 68




civil appeals nos 65, 67 and 68 of 2019




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal justice

andrew phang boon leong):





outcome: court of appeal dismisses majority of appeal by an investor and

associated parties and allows investor’s joint-venture partner’s

cross-appeal in part. the court outlines the principles governing the

admissibility of subsequent conduct and the relevance of commercial context

in contractual interpretation.



facts



1 sometime in 2014 and early 2015, mr simon liong chung yee (“mr liong”)

and mr henry wong kok hwee (“mr wong”) embarked on a joint venture project

to acquire four cold chain logistics companies in china (the “target

companies”) and incorporated yg group pte ltd (“ygg”) for this purpose.

ygg’s shareholding was divided between yg logistics pte ltd (“ygl”) and mch

international pte ltd (“mch”). the former’s majority shareholding traces

back to mr liong, while the latter’s majority shareholding was held by mr

wong.




2 on 29 january 2015, the parties entered into several agreements,

including a deed of undertakings (“dou”). at this time, the parties had

envisaged an initial acquisition model whereby they would have full control

of the target companies. under the dou, mr wong undertook to hire industry

veterans in the logistics business (“the core management team”) and second

them to ygg “from the completion of the acquisition”.




3 in august 2015, the parties adopted a revised acquisition model. ygg

acquired a 40% stake in the target companies for us$4.4m and was granted a

“purchaser’s call option” to purchase the remaining 60% stake, with the

option to be exercised within 12 months. the parties amended their written

agreements, but no amendment was made to the dou. ygl also extended mch a

loan of s$4.5m (“the amended loan agreement”) to finance mr wong’s share of

the initial 40% purchase. mr wong and his wife, mrs wong, issued personal

guarantees for this loan.




4 unbeknownst to mr liong, mr wong obtained a commission of us$300,000 for

facilitating ygg’s purchase of the 40% stake of the target companies from

the vendors. further, in february 2016, mr wong’s associates, mr troy

shortell and mr paraj kakkar conducted negotiations with yang kee logistics

pte ltd (“ykl”) for the latter to acquire all the shares in the target

companies. ykl made two offers. the second offer was to purchase the target

companies for us$15.5m. neither of the offers was disclosed to mr liong.




5 the relationship between the parties deteriorated:




(i) mr liong alleged that mr wong had failed to fulfil his obligations to

hire and second the core management team to ygg and was delaying the

exercise of the purchaser’s call option. ygl launched suit no 104 of 2016

(“suit 104”) against mr wong and mch for breaches of the dou;




(ii) ygl commenced suit no 337 of 2016 (“suit 337”) against mch, mr wong,

and mrs wong. under the amended loan agreement, a breach of the amended

august agreements or of the dou would be an “event of default” entitling

ygl to seek repayment of the principal sum and interest on the loan. mr

wong and mch counterclaimed for lawful and unlawful conspiracy; and




(iii) ygg commenced suit no 80 of 2017 (“suit 80”) alleging breach of

fiduciary duties by mr wong (flowing from, among other things, his

undisclosed commission). in turn, mch, mr wong and mrs wong commenced suit

no 107 of 2017 (“suit 107”) alleging that ygg, ygl, mr liong and associated

parties had engaged in tortious conspiracy and sought an order to wind up

ygg.



 


background to the appeals



6 the high court judge (“the judge”) found largely in favour of mr liong,

ygg and ygl. mr wong breached his undertaking in the dou. she dismissed

mch’s and mr wong’s counterclaims in suit 337 and mch’s, mr wong’s and mrs

wong’s claims in suit 107.




7 civil appeal no 65 of 2019 (“ca 65”) is mch’s, mr wong’s, and mrs wong’s

appeal against the judge’s findings against them. civil appeal no 67 of

2019 (“ca 67”) is ygg’s appeal to increase the award in respect of the loss

of a chance claim arising from the ykl offer. civil appeal no 68 of 2019

(“ca 68”) is ygl’s appeal to increase the award of normal and default

interest pertaining to the breach of the amended loan agreement.



decision on appeal



(i) ca 65




8 the court of appeal affirmed the judge’s finding in suit 104 that mr wong

had breached his undertaking under the dou. the court considered that in

the event that subsequent conduct was to be admitted it had to be: (a)

relevant, reasonably available, and relate to a clear and obvious context;

(b) the principle of objectively ascertaining intentions remained

paramount; and (c) the subsequent conduct must go toward proof of what the

parties objectively agreed on. in this regard, the judge had not erred in

considering mr wong’s subsequent conduct as it was relevant, reasonably

available, and related to a clear and obvious context. mr wong had actively

given reasons to justify the delay, and this implicitly warranted that he

was bound by an obligation under the dou (at [14],    [18]–[19]).




9 the court acknowledged however, that this view was contingent on it

expressing a definitive view as to the admissibility of subsequent conduct

in contractual interpretation. the court observed that evidence of

subsequent conduct generally fell into two categories – it was either

inadmissible because it did not fulfil the relevant criteria, or it was

superfluous because it would echo the contextual evidence at the time of

the contract. the was a case of the latter, as the objectively ascertained

intentions of the parties at the time of the contract meant that the judge

did not even need to rely on subsequent conduct to find mr wong liable

under the dou. the judge’s finding was affirmed, albeit on different

grounds (at [20]–[21] and    [29]).




10 in suit 337, the judge found seven events of default under the amended

loan agreement. event of default 2 concerned clause 12.1(e) of the amended

loan agreement, which was breached if any legal proceedings were instituted

against mch. the judge found that suit 104 (which ygl had instituted

against mch) triggered clause 12.1(e). on appeal, mch asserted that clause

12.1(e) only referred to suits launched by third parties (at    [31]–[33]).




11 the court observed that: (a) terms must always be interpreted in their

internal context, which applied a fortiori for the sentence or

paragraph in question; (b) too rigid and formalistic an approach to

interpretation may lead to commercially insensible results; (c) the

commercial purpose of the amended loan agreement was already fulfilled by

allowing ygl to recall the loan if mch had a third-party dispute; and (d)

avoiding a commercially insensible outcome is a factor that the court may

give succour to in its task of contractual interpretation (at    [36]–[41]).




12 the court found that the judge erred in her interpretation and clause

12.1(e) was limited to third party proceedings. as such, ygl was not

entitled to rely on the clause as a basis to recall its loan. the court

reversed the judge’s finding that mch was liable under event of default 2.

this did not mean however, that the instituting of proceedings against mch

in suit 104 was commenced mala fides. as event of default 5 (mch’s

refusal to amend ygg’s articles of association) was established, the court

dismissed the remainder of the mch’s, mr wong’s and mrs wong’s appeals in

relation to suit 337 (at [42], [45],    [51] and [54]).




13 in suit 80, the judge found that there were six breaches of duty by mr

wong. these findings were upheld by the court which held that mr wong’s

breaches were blatant and wilful. there was also no reason to disturb the

judge’s awards in relation to the same (at [81]).




(ii) ca 67




14 the court affirmed the judge’s finding of the likelihood of the second

ykl offer materialising to be 12.5%. the judge had carefully considered the

relevant facts in arriving at her decision. it was inappropriate to rely

heavily on the decision in



asia hotel investments ltd v starwood asia pacific management pte ltd

and another



[2007] sghc 50 (“asia hotel”). asia hotel did not purport

to lay out a general approach to assessing loss of chance. moreover, the

nature of the property in asia hotel was quite different from the

present case (at [88]-[91]).




(iii) ca 68




15 the court held that ygl was not entitled to normal interest in addition

to default interest. the objectively ascertained intentions of the parties

was that default interest would be calculated to already include normal

interest (at [59] and [63]).




16 ygl submitted that the wrong interest rate and reference date had been

used in its pleadings on default interest. the court accepted that there

was a calculation error. although this was a new point on appeal, the court

considered that the new point related merely to the construction of a

document which required no fresh evidence or a review of the factual

matrix. no prejudice was caused to mch in allowing this point to be raised.

the court therefore rectified the calculation of default interest to run

from event of default 5 to the date of the writ, which would amount to

$40,000 (at [52]–[53] and    [68]–[71]).




17 ygl also submitted that the amended loan agreement provided that default

interest would run both before and after judgment. the court observed that

while this was not drawn to the judge’s attention, this concerned a plain

text reading of the amended loan agreement. in this regard, mch had also

conceded that under the amended loan agreement default interest would run

till the date of payment (at [66],and    [73]–[75]).




18 the court rejected mch’s submission that awarding ygl default interest

until the date of payment was awarding interest upon interest under section

12(2)(a) of the civil law act (cap 43, 1999 rev ed) as this

concerned the period during which default interest was contracted to run.

in any event, ygl could avail itself of section 12(2)(b) as the

basis of its claim for default interest was pursuant to an agreement. the

court allowed the appeal in part and determined that default interest

should accrue until the date of payment, but noted that these were matters

that ygl could have alerted the judge to. even if new points were

ultimately entertained on appeal, there may be sanctions in the form of

appropriate cost orders (at [77]–[79]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.