supreme court of singapore



13 november 2019



case summary


bph v public prosecutor and another appeal
[2019] sgca 64


criminal appeals no 29 of 2018 and no 19 of 2019



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal tay yong

kwang)





outcome: court of appeal dismisses the appellants’ appeals against

sentence, and affirms that a single sentencing framework applies to all

forms of sexual assault by penetration set out in s 376 of the penal code.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment:



· court of appeal affirms that the sentencing framework set out in its

earlier decision in pram nair v public prosecutor [2017] 2 slr

1015 (“pram nair”) applies to all permutations of sexual

penetration set out in s 376 of the penal code




· court of appeal concludes that there is no hierarchy of severity for the

various permutations of sexual penetration in s 376 of the penal code



background to the appeals



1 this judgment contains the court of appeal’s grounds of decision for two

appeals, the first against the decision of the high court inpublic prosecutor v bph (criminal case no 90 of 2017) (“bph”), and the second against the decision of the high court in    public prosecutor v bvz [2019] sghc 83 (“bvz”).




2 both appeals were heard on the same day on 4 july 2019. bph was

heard in the morning, and bvz in the afternoon. both appeals were

dismissed that same day with brief oral grounds rendered.




3 although the facts of the appeals were unrelated, they raised the same

related questions of principle: (1) whether the pram nair

sentencing framework applies to all permutations of sexual penetration in s

376 of the penal code; and (2) whether there is a hierarchy of severity for

the various permutations of sexual penetration in s 376 of the penal code.

the court of appeal has therefore decided to issue joint grounds of

decision for both appeals.



facts and decision below in bph



4 bph is a 65-year-old male singaporean. he is the maternal grandfather of

the victim, who was 11 years old at the material time. bph pleaded guilty

to, and was convicted of, committing two sexual offences against his

grandson. the first was digital-anal penetration punishable under s 376 of

the penal code. the second was outrage of modesty for fondling his

grandson’s penis contrary to s 354 of the penal code. three other charges

of a similar nature were taken into consideration for the purposes of

sentencing.




5 the high court judge (“the judge in bph”) imposed a sentence of

ten years’ imprisonment for the sexual penetration offence, and two years’

imprisonment for the outrage of modesty offence, and ordered both to run

consecutively yielding an aggregate sentence of 12 year’s imprisonment. the

judge in bph pertinently noted in his sentencing remarks that he

considered digital-anal penetration to be less severe than digital-vaginal

penetration, which was the type of sexual penetration addressed in    pram nair itself, and therefore adjusted the sentence for the

sexual penetration offence downwards accordingly.



facts and decision below in bvz



6 the appellant in bvz pleaded guilty to, and was convicted of,

four offences. two were for the penile-oral penetration of a 14 year old

girl, ie, fellatio, contrary to s 376 of the penal code. one was

for causing hurt by means of poison contrary to s 328 of the penal code.

the last was for outrage of modesty of a 14 year old girl contrary to s 354

of the penal code. six other charges were taken into consideration for the

purposes of sentencing.




7 the high court judge (“the judge in bvz”) ordered a sentence of

ten years’ imprisonment and eight strokes of the cane for each of the two

sexual penetration charges; a sentence of three years’ imprisonment for the

s 328 offence, and ten months’ imprisonment for the outrage of modesty

offence. she ordered the sentences for the two sexual penetration offences

to run consecutively, yielding an aggregate sentence of 20 years’

imprisonment and 16 strokes of the cane. pertinently, the judge in    bvz took the view that the pram nair framework, although

originally developed in the context of digital-vaginal penetration, also

applied to the offences of fellatio in bvz.



the court of appeal’s decision 


decision on the sentencing framework



8 the court of appeal ruled that the pram nair sentencing

framework applies to all forms of sexual penetration under s 376 of the

penal code, notwithstanding that pram nair itself was a case

concerning only digital-vaginal penetration: at [55].




9 there were three reasons for this view. first, there was a multitude of

permutations for the offence of sexual penetration under s 376 which made

benchmark sentences for each permutation impractical:    at [56] to [58].  second, the text of s 376 did not

indicate in any way that the types of sexual assault by penetration were to

be ranked in terms of severity: at [59]. third, the

divergence in the authorities on s 376 revealed an absence of unanimity of

views as to whether one form of sexual penetration was inherently more

serious or more detestable than another: at [60]. 



10 there was reasonable consensus, however, that rape was the gravest of

all sexual penetration offences. thus, the offence of rape continued to be

governed by the framework specifically developed for it inng kean meng terence v public prosecutor [2017] 2 slr 449:    at [62]. 


decisions on sentence in the appeals


bph



11 the court of appeal held that the judge was right to find that at least

two offence-specific factors applied here: (1) the abuse of trust by a

maternal grandfather, and (2) the vulnerability of the young victim:    at [64]. the case therefore fell within at least the

middle of band 2 of the pram nair framework. the outrage of

modesty offence, as well, fell within band 2 of the sentencing framework

for that offence: at [72]. the aggregate sentence ordered

below was therefore, if anything, on the lenient side. bph’s appeal against

sentence was therefore dismissed: at [89].



bvz



12 the court of appeal observed that the individual sentences ordered for

the sexual penetration offences were also rather lenient towards bvz. there

were five aggravating factors which applied in this case: (1) the young age

of the victim; (2) the fact that bvz abused his position of trust as a

quasi-parental figure towards the victim; (3) the humiliating nature of the

acts; (4) the premeditation of the offences and (5) the use of force and

the threat of using more force on the victim: at    [90] to [96]. in addition, the judge was right to order

the sentences for the two sexual penetration offences to run consecutively:    at [98]. the aggregate sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment

could therefore hardly be described as manifestly excessive. bvz’s appeal

was thus dismissed: at [99].



conclusions on questions of law



13 the court of appeal concluded its analysis by setting out the following

conclusions on the questions of law in the appeals (at [100]):




(a) the pram nair sentencing framework applies to all permutations

of sexual penetration in s 376 of the penal code; and




(b) there is no hierarchy of severity for the various permutations of

sexual penetration in s 376 of the penal code.





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.