supreme court of singapore


11 november 2019


case summary





jurong primewide pte ltd v crescendas bionics pte ltd and another

appeal





[2019] sgca 63





civil appeals nos 19 and 20 of 2019





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice quentin loh):





outcome: the court of appeal allows an appeal by a contractor against the

high court’s decision to grant a property developer a refund for alleged

double-payments, noting that such claims must be specifically pleaded. the

court of appeal also partially allows the developer’s appeal, and considers

what should be taken into account in calculating “reasonable time” for

completion.



introduction



1 crescendas bionics pte ltd (“crescendas”), a property developer, had

engaged jurong primewide pte ltd (“jurong primewide”), a contractor, to

build the biopolis 3 project. several disputes occurred between the

parties. crescendas alleged that the $12.3m provided for the preliminaries

under the contract was a tentative figure subject to further negotiations.

conversely, jurong primewide asserted the $12.3m was a fixed sum.




2 although the project was eventually completed, it had exceeded the

contractually stipulated time of 18 months for jurong primewide to complete

the project. the parties brought suit against each other. crescendas

claimed that jurong primewide was responsible for the entirety of the delay

and liable for liquidated damages. conversely, jurong primewide asserted

that it was not responsible for any of the delays because crescendas had

caused acts of prevention.



 


the high court’s decision



3 the high court decided largely in favour of jurong primewide, holding

that the $12.3m for preliminaries was a fixed sum. however, if there were

any double payments by crescendas to jurong primewide for the same

preliminaries done by the trade contractors, these had to be refunded to

crescendas (“the refund ruling”).




4 the high court also considered that crescendas was liable for 173 days of

delay. given that crescendas had engaged in acts of prevention, the absence

of an extension of time clause in the contract meant that time for

completion had been set at large. in this regard, the high court was of the

view that the “reasonable time” for jurong primewide to complete the

project was the initially forecasted 18 months, plus the 173 days of delay

caused by crescendas, plus an additional 25 days that the parties had not

included in the august 2008 master programme for the capping beams work.



 


the court of appeal’s decision



5 the court of appeal allowed jurong primewide’s appeal against the refund

ruling. crescendas had not specifically pleaded a claim for a refund of

double payments, nor had it ascertained or pleaded the value of the alleged

overlapping preliminaries works after all this time. the court of appeal

remarked that it was important in building and construction cases for such

averments to be specifically pleaded and with sufficient particulars so

that the opposing party knows the case it has to meet (at    [9]).




6 the court of appeal dismissed the majority of crescendas’ appeal save for

a rectification error and the issue of the reasonable time given to jurong

primewide as a result of the capping beams work (at [12]–    [13]).




7 the court of appeal noted that although jurong primewide would have been

aware of the need for the capping beams work, it had not included an

itemised activity and time for the capping beams work in its july 2008 and

august 2008 master programmes. this was only remedied in its revised master

programme in april 2009. whilst jurong primewide may have been mistaken in

its assessment, this was an error that lay at their doorstep and was not a

fault or act of prevention that could be attributed to crescendas. jurong

primewide should therefore not be given the benefit of the additional 25

days for the capping beams work in computing what should be a reasonable

time for project completion (at [17]–[19]

).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.