supreme court of singapore


7 november 2019


case summary





tmt asia limited v bhp billiton marketing ag (singapore branch) and

another





[2019] sgca 60





civil appeal no 200 of 2018





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by tay yong kwang ja):





outcome: coa dismisses appeal against high court’s decision to

strike out the appellant’s statement of claim on grounds of abuse of

process.



background



1 the appellant, tmt asia limited (“tmta”), was the plaintiff in the main

suit, and the respondents, which were companies in the bhp billiton group

(collectively, “bhpm”), were the defendants. bhpm applied to strike out

tmta’s claim on the grounds that continued prosecution of the claim would

be an abuse of process in light of bhpm’s open offer (“the offer”) to

settle tmta’s claim in full. at the hearing of bhpm’s striking out

application, the high court judge (“the judge”) directed that pursuant to o

14 r 12 and/or o 33 r 2 of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev ed)

(“roc”), a preliminary point or issue be decided first. that preliminary

point mirrored the issue in the striking out application: ie,

whether tmta was entitled to continue with the action in light of the

settlement offer. the judge answered the issue in the negative and struck

out tmta’s claim. tmta appealed.



the material facts



2 the appellant, tmta, is a shipping company. the respondents, bhpm, are

part of the bhp billiton group, a producer of iron ore. the parties were

involved in trading forward freight agreements (“ffas”) with prices which

were based on a certain index. tmta alleged that bhpm manipulated freight

prices by procuring contracts for freight in such quantities as to

artificially inflate the freight rates reported on the index, in breach of

s 208(a) of the securities and futures act (cap 289, 2006 rev ed)

(“sfa”), which prohibited manipulation of the price of a “futures contract”

in a “futures market”. bhpm denied the claim.




3 tmta commenced suit in february 2013 in the district court, but the suit

was transferred to the high court on bhpm’s application on grounds that it

raised issues of public interest pertaining to the interpretation of s 208(    a) of the sfa.




4 in august 2013, bhpm applied to strike out tmta’s claim, but this first

striking out application was ultimately dismissed on appeal to the high

court.




5 thereafter, bhpm extended an offer to settle tmta’s claim in full. tmta

did not accept the offer.




6 in march 2016, bhpm applied a second time to strike out tmta’s claim,

this time on the basis that continued prosecution of tmta’s claim would be

an abuse of process in light of the offer to settle the claim in full. this

second striking out application was heard by an assistant registrar (“the

ar”), who declined to strike out tmta’s claim, reasoning in part that the

proceedings raised issues of public importance relating to the

interpretation of s 208(a) of the sfa. bhpm did not appeal.




7 in june 2018, bhpm applied for the third time to strike out tmta’s claim

under o 18 r 19 of the roc. the judge reframed the issue as a preliminary

point to be decided under o 14 r 12 and/or o 33 r 2 as follows: whether the

continuance of the action was an abuse of the process of the court in the

light of the offer.




8 first, the judge held that the ar’s decision in the second striking out

application (that the claim should not be struck out) did not give rise to

any issue estoppel. he considered that the ar’s decision was not final

conclusive in relation to the preliminary point before him because it was

made in respect of an application to strike out under o 18 r 19 of the roc,

whereas the preliminary issue before him was to be determined under o 14 r

12 and/or o 33 r 2, which involved a different threshold. the judge noted

that s 208(a) of the sfa had since been amended substantially so

that the significance of the action as a test case for the interpretation

of that section was diminished, but observed that it would remain relevant

to causes of action that arose before the amendments came into operation.




9 second, the judge held that the continuance of tmta’s claim would be an

abuse of process because it would serve no useful purpose in light of the

offer, under which tmta would receive all the reliefs it was seeking in its

claim. the judge struck out the claim accordingly.



the court’s decision 



10 the court of appeal dismissed tmta’s appeal and affirmed the judge’s

decision to strike out the claim, albeit on different grounds.




11 the court set out the two issues which fell for determination: first,

whether the abuse of process issue was res judicata as a result of

the ar’s decision (“the res judicata issue”). second, whether

tmta’s continuation of its action was an abuse of the court’s process in

light of the offer (“the abuse of process issue”) (at [22]

).




12 the court disagreed with the judge’s finding on the issue of whether the

ar’s decision was final and conclusive. the court held that it was,

reasoning that there was no difference in the threshold applicable for a

finding of abuse of process under o 18 r 19 of the roc and a preliminary

determination of that same issue made pursuant to o 14 r 12 and/or o 33 r

2. the court further opined that the judge ought not to have invited bhpm

to file an application under o 14 r 12 and/or o 33 r 2 and should have

dealt with bhpm’s application under o 18 r 19 instead (at    [25]).




13 although the ar’s decision was final and conclusive, the court held that

no issue estoppel arose because there was no identity of subject matter.

the key difference between the situations that existed at the time of the

second striking out application (before the ar) and the third striking out

application (before the judge) was the fact that amendments were made to

the sfa some seven months after the ar’s decision. with these amendments, s

208 of the sfa was repealed and replaced by s 201b, thereby removing the

terms “futures contract” and “futures market” and replacing them with

differently-defined terms. the effect of these amendments was that the

issues of interpretation of s 208(a) were no longer relevant to

causes of action arising after the amendments came into operation, thereby

diminishing the public importance of the questions raised in tmta’s claim.

because the facts and circumstances forming the backdrop to the abuse of

process issue were changed materially by the sfa amendments, it could not

be said that the subject matter of the dispute before the ar was identical

to that which was before the judge, and the abuse of process issue was

therefore not res judicata (at [28] and    [30]).




14 on the abuse of process issue, the court agreed entirely with the judge

that there was no defect in the offer which would justify tmta’s refusal to

accept it (at [31]). after the offer was made, it was

clear that the primary benefit of proceeding to trial could no longer be

that of tmta obtaining compensatory relief, since that relief could be

obtained by tmta simply accepting the offer. it became incumbent on tmta to

point to other reasons why it should be allowed to continue with its action

despite the offer (at [35]).




15 the court rejected tmta’s submission that the questions raised in the

action would still be of public interest in that the court’s interpretation

of the terms “futures contract” and “futures market” might nonetheless be

of guidance in the interpretation of the new statutory terms. the issues

raised in tmta’s claim did not involve a comparison of the pre- and

post-amendment statutory regimes, and so any interpretation of the terms of

the pre-amendment sfa would therefore be unlikely to be authoritative or of

assistance to cases subject to the post-amendment regime (at    [34]).




16 the court also rejected tmta’s argument that a trial was necessary for

it to obtain vindicatory relief since the offer was made without any

admission as to liability (at [36]). the court observed

that seeking vindicatory relief in the form of a formal finding of

liability or a declaration of non-liability, in the face of an open offer

to agree to all reliefs sought in an action without any admission of

liability, may be justified in only very special circumstances. one example

might be a case involving a claim for damages resulting from a very grave

defamation, where the defendant pleads justification but subsequently makes

an offer to pay damages while refusing to withdraw the pleaded

justification. in such a situation, if the plaintiff could show that he may

suffer serious practical consequences (eg, if the defamation would

affect his professional status), it is arguable that the plaintiff should

be allowed to continue with the action in order to vindicate his reputation

completely at trial. however, tmta’s action did not come within this sort

of very special circumstances as it was essentially a commercial claim (at    [37]).




17 for these reasons, the court dismissed tmta’s appeal, and upheld the

judge’s decision to strike out tmta’s claim (at [38]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.