supreme court of singapore



6 november 2019



case summary


tan liang joo john v attorney-general 

[2019] sghc 263




originating summons no 911 of 2019





----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

decision of the high court (aedit abdullah j):



outcome:



the high court dismisses the applicant’s application for a declaration

that he is not disqualified from standing for election as a member of

parliament under art 45(1)(e) of the




constitution of the republic of singapore (1999 reprint) (“the

constitution”).





facts



1 the applicant – mr tan liang joo john – was found guilty by woo bih li j

of contempt by scandalising the court (referred to as “criminal contempt”)

under s 3(1)(a) of the administration of justice (protection) act

(no 19 of 2016 (“ajpa”) in ag v wham kwok han jolovan [2018] sghc

222. a sentence of a $5,000 fine, with 1 weeks’ imprisonment in default,

was imposed on him in ag v wham kwok han jolovan [2019] sghc 111

(“jolovan wham (sentencing)”).




2 the applicant sought a declaration that he is not disqualified from

standing for election as a member of parliament under art 45(1)(e)

of the constitution, which states:



45.

—(1) subject to this article, a person shall not be qualified to be a

member of parliament who —




...




(e) has been convicted of an offence by a court of law in

singapore or malaysia and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of not less

than one year or to a fine of not less than $2,000 and has not received a

free pardon:




provided that where the conviction is by a court of law in malaysia, the

person shall not be so disqualified unless the offence is also one which,

had it been committed in singapore, would have been punishable by a court

of law in singapore;




3 the applicant contended that the term “offence” in art 45(1)(e)

does not extend to quasi-criminal offences such as criminal contempt.

alternatively, the government is bound by the position taken in 1988 by the

then returning officer, mr ong kok min (“the ro”). the ro had informed the

straits times that the nomination paper of one mr jufrie mahmood, who had

earlier been fined $3,000 for contempt of court, would not be rejected as

the offence was not criminal in nature. the applicant also argued that art

9 and art 12 of the constitution were violated in this case.



decision of the high court








the meaning of the term “offence” in art 45(1)(e) of the constitution


4 the term “offence” in art 45(1)(e) of the constitution covers

quasi-criminal offences such as criminal contempt.




5 the court of appeal in tan cheng bock v ag [2017] 2 slr 850 laid

down a three step approach to constitutional interpretation:




a. first, ascertain possible interpretations of the provision, having

regard to the text of the provision as well as the context of the provision

within the written law as a whole.




b. second, ascertain the legislative purpose of the statute.




c. third, compare possible interpretations of the text against the purpose

of the statute. an interpretation which furthers the purpose of the written

text is preferred to one which does not.




6 here, the term “offence” is broad enough to cover contempt of court.

there is nothing in the context to show that the term should be limited to

criminal offences and not quasi-criminal offences:




a. first, the fact that art 45(1)(e) references a free pardon and

conviction does not mean that only criminal offences are covered by the

term “offence”. nothing in art 22p of the constitution curtails the

constitutional power of the president to pardon for offences, including

criminal contempt (at [25]–[33]).




b. second, the fact that the grounds for disqualification in art 45 might

overlap does not mean that they should be construed as being entirely

distinct and segregated to avoid any tautology or needless duplication (at    [34]–[35]).




c. third, the rest of the constitution contains references to offences

which must be taken to include criminal contempt, such as art 35(8) (at    [36]).




d. fourth, the fact that other statutes use the term “offence” to mean

criminal offences does not control its meaning in the constitution, since

what is in issue here is whether term extends to a quasi-criminal matter

(at [37]).




e. fifth, no ambiguity or risk of disqualification for minor matters arise

from interpreting the term “offence” to include criminal contempt (at    [38]–[40]).




f. sixth, there is no level of ambiguity in art 45(1)(e) that

would attract a strict construction on the disqualification criteria

therein (at [41]–[44]).




7 a consideration of the purpose of art 45(1)(e) does not assist

in respect of the interpretation of the term “offence”. based on the text

of the provision and the context in which it is found in the constitution,

the interpretation to be given to the term extends to cover quasi-criminal

offences such as criminal contempt (at [45]–[51]).


the prior example of mr jufrie mahmood


8 there were several difficulties with relying on the treatment of mr

jufrie mahmood. the newspaper record only records what was told to the

newspaper by the ro without details on his reasoning. no official record

was tendered, which would provide some assurance against inaccuracies in

reporting. since the court was concerned with a legal question, the legal

basis underlying the ro’s decision had to be laid bare (at    [54]).




9 even if the ro’s position was accurately reported, this does not mean

that the government remains bound by the position some 31 years later. the

ro’s interpretation cannot be binding on the courts, which are tasked under

the constitution to interpret the law (at [56]).




10 the question is whether the government is bound by the stance taken by

the ro in 1988, such as by estoppel. here, the newspaper report would not

be sufficient indication of a position being taken on the interpretation of

art 45(1)(e) and forming the basis of a representation.

detrimental reliance was also not made out as it is clear from the position

taken by the applicant in jolovan wham (sentencing) that he

believed he would be disqualified if sentenced to a fine greater than

$2,000 (at [57]–[58]).




11 it is also doubtful that estoppel is available as a remedy in the

present case. to allow the applicant to invoke the doctrine of estoppel

would be to effectively circumvent the disqualification criteria set out in

art 45(1)(e) and go against the grain of the parliamentary

elections act (cap 218, 2011 rev ed), which allows the election of a

candidate as a member of parliament to be declared void for being

disqualified from election. these suggest that the disqualification

criteria in art 45(1)(e) cannot be derogated from by the ro or the

government (at [59]).




12 in the alternative, if the doctrine of estoppel in judicial review were

subsumed under the doctrine of legitimate expectation, the applicant would

still not succeed in his application as he did not satisfy the requirements

set out in chiu teng @ kallang pte ltd v singapore land authority 

[2014] 1 slr 1047 (at [61]–[65]).


other arguments


13 the applicant argued that the court of appeal in    vellama d/o marie muthu v ag [2013] 4 slr 1 established the right

to vote, which would imply a corresponding right to stand for election.

however, vellama did not in fact recognise a right to vote in

elections as a fundamental right as it was concerned with whether the prime

minister had a duty to call a by-election to fill casual vacancies of

elected members of parliament. further, as the right to stand for election

as a member of parliament is not part of the enumerated fundamental rights

in part iv of the constitution, it is not subject to the generous

interpretation afforded to fundamental liberties in    ong ah chuan v pp [1979–1980] slr(r) 710 (at [66]

).




14 article 9 and article 12 of the constitution are not violated. the term

“life” in art 9 is concerned with punishment and is not interpreted in a

very broad sense. based on the respondent’s arguments, the fact that it

adopts a different position from the ro also does not amount to deliberate

and arbitrary discrimination against the applicant such as to violate art

12 (at [67]–[68]).


conclusion


15 for the above reasons, the application was dismissed.



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.