supreme court of singapore





14 october 2019





case summary





singapore international commercial court suit no 4 of 2018





sheila kazzaz and another v standard chartered bank and others



[2019] sghc(i) 15










decision of anselmo reyes ij






outcome: sicc dismisses plaintiffs’ claims for negligence and

misrepresentation against defendant bank and its officers.



background 






1 the first and second plaintiffs, sheila and ahmed kazzaz, are mother and

son. they are uk citizens, but have resided in dubai since 2004. the ask

group is the kazzaz family business. it was largely engaged in business in

iraq, including property investments and duty-free retail shops. ahmed is

chairperson of the ask group.




2 the first defendant, standard chartered bank (“scb”), is a

uk-incorporated multinational bank with branches in singapore and the dubai

international financial centre (“difc”). the kazzaz family became private

banking clients of scb’s difc branch (“scb difc”) in october 2010. the

second defendant, laurence black (“laurence”), was scb difc’s head of

fiduciary services for middle east and north africa until december 2012.

the third defendant, harish phoolwani (“harish”), was (and remains) an scb

difc director. he was ahmed’s and sheila’s relationship manager until

august 2012. the fourth defendant, naushid mithani (“naushid”), was scb

difc’s head of relationship management and investment advisory from may

2010 until march 2011, when he became head of private banking.




3 the plaintiffs allege that the defendants are liable to them for (1)

negligent misrepresentation, (2) breaches of the common law duty of care,

and (3) breaches of the difc regulatory law. the basis of their claims lie

in what they say is a property financing arrangement (“pfa”) that the

defendants had induced them to enter into. under the pfa, scb was to

provide or arrange for: (a) a mortgage to fund the purchase of a property

in london (“the westchester property”), so as to enable the proceeds from

the sale of ducie court (one of the family’s properties in manchester) to

be used for an investment portfolio, (b) a universal life insurance policy

(“the policy”) with a net death benefit of us$21.5 million up to the age of

100 to be taken out over sheila’s life with the aid of financing made

available through a loan (“the premium loan”), and (c) offshore trusts and

companies to hold assets of the kazzaz family, including the westchester

property and the policy.




4 the plaintiffs principally complained that the defendants had

misrepresented that the pfa was a self-funding arrangement in which

investments made using the ducie court sale proceeds would generate

sufficient returns to meet the interest payments arising from the mortgage

and premium loan, and that ahmed would not have to provide further funds as

security. they allege that the defendants did not explain the true and full

extent of ahmed’s liabilities in relation to the repayment of the premium

loan and various other risks inherent in the pfa, and had classified the

plaintiffs as “professional clients” without ensuring that they were

suitable to be classified as such. ultimately, the plaintiffs claim that

the defendants had failed to ensure that their financial recommendations

were suitable for the kazzaz family.



the court’s findings






5 the court found on the evidence that the defendants had obtained

information about the kazzaz family’s wealth and income from ahmed himself.

although ahmed did not have precise figures about his net worth and assets,

it was likely that he had given the defendants broad-brush figures about

his wealth. in this regard, he had forwarded to harish a licence granted by

the iraqi government to one of the ask group’s companies to conduct

business in iraq. the licence contained an undertaking to invest us$35

million, which would understandably have communicated the impression to the

defendants that the kazzaz family had significant wealth and assets.




6 contrary to the defendants’ arguments that they never proposed a pfa and

had instead suggested possible financial solutions from time to time for

ahmed’s evolving needs, the court found that the defendants had in fact put

forth such a pfa. the court found that scb, through harish and laurence,

had explained the rationale underlying the various trust structures in the

pfa, the possibility of currency risks and margin calls, and interest

payment arising from the proposed financing arrangement. in addition, the

defendants did not represent to ahmed that the financial arrangements that

scb would put in place would take care of the kazzaz family’s needs,

regardless of how much ahmed withdrew from the investment portfolio.




7 the court also found that scb had adequately explained to ahmed and

sheila what it meant to become a “professional client” of scb’s, and that

scb was justified in classifying them as such. the court rejected the

plaintiffs’ complaint that in practice, scb (whether through harish or

laurence) would simply put documents before ahmed for signature without

explanation. in fact, it found on the evidence that harish and laurence

would take pains to deal with points and questions that ahmed raised from

time to time.



conclusion



8 given its findings, the court held that the plaintiffs had failed to

establish liability on the part of the defendants. the plaintiffs’ claims

were dismissed entirely.




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court.