supreme court of singapore
11 october 2019
case summary
aljunied-hougang town council and

another v lim swee lian sylvia and others and another suit [2019] sghc 241

suit nos 668 and 716 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the high court

(kannan ramesh j):
outcome: the high court allows in part the claims of

ahtc and prptc against town councillors, senior employees, and the former

managing agent of ahtc, including for breach of fiduciary duties and allowing

improper payments.
facts
1             

the first to third defendants – ms sylvia lim,

mr low thia khiang and mr pritam singh – were elected as town councillors of

aljunied-hougang town council (“ahtc”) following the 2011 general elections.

the fourth and fifth defendants, mr david chua and mr kenneth foo, were

subsequently appointed as town councillors of ahtc. the sixth and seventh

defendants, ms how weng fan and mr danny loh, were later appointed deputy

secretary/general manager and secretary of ahtc respectively. the claims in

suit 668 and 716 arise out of the defendants’ conduct in relation to ahtc, the

plaintiff in suit 668. the plaintiff in suit 716, pasir ris-punggol town

council (“prptc”), makes similar claims against the defendants because

punggol-east single member constituency was part of ahtc from 2013 to 2015

before it became part of prptc on 1 october 2015, resulting in the rights of punggol-east

single member constituency being transferred to prptc on 1 october 2015

pursuant to the town councils (declaration of towns) order 2015. as mr danny

loh has passed away, he is represented in these proceedings by his wife ms how

weng fan as the personal representative of his estate. 
2             

the trial has been bifurcated into two parts. in

the present first stage of the trial, the court will decide only on the

defendants’ liability to the plaintiffs for each of their claims, as well as

the nature of the remedies the plaintiffs are entitled to obtain from the

defendants. at the future second stage of the trial, the court will assess the

quantum of compensation that the plaintiffs are entitled to from the

defendants.
3             

the claims against the first to seventh

defendants generally arise out of their alleged breaches of fiduciary duties

owed to ahtc, as well as statutory and tortious duties. these breaches

allegedly occurred as a result of the award of managing agent (“ma”) contracts

and essential maintenance services (“emsu”) contracts to the eighth defendant,

fmss, which was controlled by mr danny loh and ms how weng fan.
a.           

the first ma and emsu contracts were awarded to

fmss in 2011 without a tender being called, purportedly because the requirement

for such tender was waived under r 74(17) of the town council financial rules

(“tcfr”) as a result of urgent and “very special circumstances” (r 74(18)). the

plaintiffs say that no such urgency or special circumstances existed.
b.           

the second ma and emsu contracts were awarded to

fmss in 2012 after a tender was called, in which fmss was the sole bidder. the

plaintiffs say that this was a state of affairs engineered by the defendants,

and that the defendants failed to correct their breaches of duties from 2011. 
the first to seventh defendants were also

alleged to have breached their duties in relation to the approval of payments

made to fmss under these ma and emsu contracts, as well as similar payments

made under an earlier emsu contract with fmsi, which is a sole proprietorship

operated by mr danny loh.
4             

in addition to these four main contracts, the

plaintiffs challenge the propriety of several other contracts awarded to third

party contractors by the defendants from 2012 to 2015. these were to contractors

known as lst architects, red-power, rentokil, j keart, and titan, and the

awards are challenged by the plaintiffs as either failing to comply with the

tcfr, or being at higher rates than were necessary.
5             

the first to seventh defendants deny owing duties

of a fiduciary nature to ahtc. they also deny any improper conduct in relation

to the awarding of the four ma and emsu contracts, the payments made under the

contracts (including the earlier emsu contract with fmsi), as well as the

awarding of the contracts to the third party contractors. they argue that in

any case, they can rely on the defence of good faith provided in s 52 of the

town councils act (“tca”), and that some of the claims against them are

time-barred under the limitation act.
decision of the high court
whether the defendants owed ahtc fiduciary duties
6             

the first to fifth defendants owed fiduciary

duties to ahtc by virtue of being town councillors: (at [175], [191], [212], [216], [218], [223], [225]).
a.           

in attorney-general

v aljunied-hougang-punggol east town council [2016] 1 slr 915 (“ahpetc (ca)”), the court of appeal held

that the relationship between a town council and the ministry of national

development was governed purely by public law; this should not be taken to mean

that every legal relationship involving

a town council and another party is governed purely by public law. whether a

legal relationship created by statute and involving the exercise of statutory

powers gives rise to private law obligations depends on whether that relationship

has any legal character independent of public law. 
b.           

section 5 of the tca provides that the town

council is to be a body corporate. this brings the role of town councillors in

directing the town council within the template of a body corporate and its officers,

and they must therefore act in accordance with the duties that the law imposes

on officers of bodies corporate. in this regard, there is a close analogy

between town councillors and directors of a company or council members of a

strata development management corporation. there is no reason not to conclude

that town councillors have undertaken to act on behalf of their town council in

a relationship of trust and confidence that gives rise to fiduciary duties.

this means town councillors must manage the estate and serve the interests of

their town council with single-minded loyalty, and for proper purposes. 
c.            

the political context of town councils does not

militate against imposing fiduciary obligations on town councillors. 
d.           

the volunteer status of appointed town

councillors such as mr david chua and mr kenneth foo does not preclude them

from owing fiduciary duties.
7             

the sixth and seventh defendants owed fiduciary

duties to ahtc by virtue of being part of the senior management of ahtc. employees

are fiduciaries if their duties require them to act with a single-minded

loyalty, and “top management” will commonly have undertaken such duties to

their employers. ms how weng fan was deputy secretary/general manager of ahtc and

mr danny loh was secretary of ahtc, and these roles were part of the top

management of ahtc – there were no other employees of ahtc more senior than

them. it is true that the general manager and secretary of ahtc were intended by

design to simultaneously also be senior employees of the ma, and would

therefore also owe duties to the ma. however, any potential conflicts of

interest that arise from this must be managed as part of ms how weng fan and mr

danny loh’s fiduciary duties to ahtc, and did not mean that they cannot owe

fiduciary duties: (at [228], [232],

[235]–[237]). 
the award of the first ma contract
8             

the evidence shows that there was a clear plan

for fmss to replace the incumbent ma cpg regardless of cpg’s intention as

regards the existing ma contract, and that this decision was made by ms sylvia

lim and mr low thia khiang shortly after the 2011 general elections. the waiver

of tender and subsequent appointment of fmss was not a contingency, but a fait

accompli by the time of the 30 may 2011 meeting with cpg. there was no

urgency of circumstances that would have justified the waiver of tender,

particularly since cpg was contractually obliged to continue serving as the ma

under the existing ma contract, and the defendants should have held cpg to that

contractual obligation, at least for such time as was necessary for a tender to

be called. the tcfr does not allow a waiver of tender except in very special

circumstances, and it is clear that other alternative solutions had not been explored

in this case before tender was waived. this was because the sole objective was

for cpg to be replaced as ma by fmss: (at [250],

[260], [261], [270], [278]).
9             

mr low thia khiang’s own evidence showed that the

real reason behind the waiver of tender and the plan for fmss to replace cpg was

his distrust of cpg and other entities he perceived to be affiliated to the

people’s action party, as well as his sense of loyalty towards the staff of

hougang town council who risked being retrenched if cpg continued as ma of the

expanded ahtc: (at [283]–[286]).
10          

the decision of whether to appoint fmss was

deliberately kept away from its natural forum, the town council meeting, and

placed in the hands of ms sylvia lim. this, and the rescheduling of the second

town council meeting to keep cpg out of the loop, as well as the correspondence

around this time speak to a lack of transparency and candour on the part of ms

sylvia lim and mr low thia khiang. in particular, it is unacceptable and

egregious for mr low thia khiang to have asked mr danny loh to prepare a draft

report on fmss’s appointment to be tabled at the second town council meeting,

and for ms sylvia low to have requested mr danny loh and ms how weng fan to

“sanitise” the report to pass the scrutiny of auditors, when the report

concerned fmss’s appointment as ma. this report and the subsequent press

release on 5 august 2011 painted a misleading narrative of the reason why

tender was waived: (at [293]–[298], [300],

[304]–[311]).
a.           

in the circumstances, the waiver of tender

leading to the award of the first ma contract was not justified under the tcfr,

and ms sylvia lim and mr low thia khiang breached their fiduciary duties to

ahtc as they had failed to act in ahtc’s best interests and had acted for extraneous

purposes. 
b.           

as mr pritam singh’s involvement in the early

events is less clear from the evidence and there was no substantial

cross-examination on his involvement, it cannot be said that he has breached

his fiduciary duties to ahtc.

however, he has breached his duties of skill and care to ahtc in respect of the

award of the first ma contract, along with mr david chua and mr kenneth foo, as

they ought to have inquired as to the circumstances of the waiver.
c.            

ms how weng fan’s heavy involvement in the award

of the first ma contract to fmss suffices for a finding that she too breached

her fiduciary duties to ahtc. mr danny loh’s fiduciary duties to ahtc only

began from the date of his appointment of secretary of ahtc, 1 august 2011, and

since the first ma contract was entered into before that date, he is not liable

for breach of fiduciary duties in this regard.
the award of the first emsu contract
11          

the defendants ought to have been aware by may

or june 2011 that the existing emsu contract would expire on 30 september 2011,

and would therefore have had time to call a tender. the reason they did not do

so must have been because this would have derailed the plan to appoint fmss as

ma and to subsequently provide both ma and emsu services to ahtc. although cpg may

have verbally indicated that it would extend its provision of emsu services

beyond 30 september 2011, this did not justify the defendants’ inaction since

there was no promise by em services, which was then providing emsu services for

another part of ahtc, to do the same. since the award of the first emsu

contract is linked to the award of the first ma contract, the basis of

liability of the defendants is the same, except that mr danny loh is also in

breach of his fiduciary duties to ahtc, since those duties would have arisen by

the time of the award of the first emsu contract: (at [323]–[326], [328], [334]).
the award of the second ma and emsu contracts
12          

there were no independent or continuing breaches

of duties arising from the award of the second ma and emsu contracts to fmss

after tender. however, to the extent that the award of the second ma and emsu contracts to fmss resulted in any loss to ahtc,

these would be recoverable as consequential losses flowing from the breaches in

relation to the award of the first ma

and emsu contracts: (at [335]–[338]).
improper payments to fmss and fmsi
13          

the involvement of conflicted persons in the

approval process for payments to fmss and fmsi created an inherent risk of

overpayment in the absence of safeguards. the standing instruction for payments

to fmss to be co-signed by the ahtc chairman or vice-chairman was not a

sufficient safeguard because there was no system to ensure that each cheque

presented was fully verified by independent parties. in some instances, there

was no proper verification even by conflicted persons, as supporting documents were

signed after a mere tallying exercise. these control failures were systemic and

represent a breach of the duties of skill and care owed by the first to seventh

defendants: (at [347]–[349], [352], [361]).
14          

ahtc has not shown that the payments to fmss for

project management fees were unjustified. ahtc relies only on unproduced “legal

advice” regarding the ma contract to show that certain services were wrongly

classified as project management services for which additional fees to fmss

were payable, when these services allegedly ought to have been classified as ma

services for which no additional fees were payable. this does not suffice to

show that the classification was factually wrong in each instance, since the ma

contract was ambiguous as to the correct classification: (at [378], [379]).
award of contracts and payments to third party contractors
15          

the award of contracts to lst architects was problematic

on two levels. first, whilst r 74(1) of the tcfr allows the award of

omnibus contracts for services to be provided for multiple projects over a

period of time, it requires contracts to be awarded to the lowest bidder for

the omnibus contracts on specific parameters. there should be no residual

discretion to award omnibus contracts to two bidders on a panel based on those

parameters, and yet award subsequent projects to the more expensive of those

bidders, which was the effect of ahtc’s practice. second, it was also in

contravention of the tcfr to award seven contracts to lst architects as the

higher bidder on the basis that the lower bidder, design metabolists, had such

shortcomings that it was no longer a viable option. if the defendants felt that

design metabolists, the only other contractor on the panel, was not a legitimate

option, then they should have called a fresh tender. the awards to lst

architects thus represented a breach of the duties of skill and care of the town

councillors who were members of the tender committee which made the decision,

namely, ms sylvia lim, mr pritam singh and mr kenneth foo: (at [397]–[399], [403], [405]). 
16          

the award of the contract to red-power when

there was an option to extend the existing contracts with digo and terminal 9

for a further 12 and 24 months was a breach of the duties of skill and care of

ms sylvia lim, mr pritam singh, mr kenneth foo and mr david chua as members of

the tender committee. this breach does not extend to the subsequent inclusion

of punggol-east in the contract with red-power, since the other service

provider, tong lee, was not obliged to extend its services to punggol-east: (at

[411], [412]).
17          

the award of the contract to rentokil was

justified as the tender committee considered that rentokil was more experienced

and more likely to enable ahtc to obtain subsidies from nea’s rat control

programme than the slightly cheaper vendor, pest-pro. these reasons were

properly documented in the meeting minutes of the tender committee and there

was thus no breach of duties by the defendants: (at [415], [416]).
18          

the award of new contracts to titan and j keart

when there were options to extend the existing contracts with both contractors

was similarly a breach of the duties of skill and care of the town councillors

who were members of the tender committee, namely, ms sylvia lim, mr pritam

singh, mr kenneth foo and mr david chua. the tender committee was aware that

titan and j keart’s bids for new contracts were at much higher rates than their

existing contracts. at this point, they ought to have satisfied themselves that

the increase in rates was justified by examining the existing contracts. if

they had done so, they would have realised that there was an option to extend

the existing contracts, and the award of fresh contracts to titan and j keart

at higher rates would have been avoided: (at [421], [422]).
19          

there were no breaches of duties on the part of

the defendants in making payment on 12 invoices totalling $171,112.62 and 56

invoices totalling $674,388.70 to third party contractors. the mere fact that

the 12 invoices were not accompanied by monthly service reports or other

supporting documents did not mean that there was such a breach, since these

were invoices to third party contractors for routine works, or works for which

ahtc had since been reimbursed. as for the 56 invoices, any breach of the tcfr

was by the head of department, and there was insufficient evidence of any of

the defendants’ involvement in the payment approval process for these invoices:

(at [426], [427], [438], [439]).
the liability of the sixth to eighth defendants for dishonest assistance

and knowing receipt
20          

the sixth to eighth defendants dishonestly

assisted mr low thia khiang and ms sylvia lim’s breach of fiduciary duties with

regard to the first ma and emsu contracts. both ms how weng fan and mr danny

loh assisted in fmss’s appointment under these contracts, and would have been

aware that ahtc had waived tender improperly. their knowledge can also be

imputed to fmss, since it is undisputed that they were fmss’s controlling

minds. fmss is also liable for knowing receipt for the payments to it under the

first ma and emsu contracts: (at [455]–[458]).
whether the claims are time-barred
21          

although the claim in relation to the first ma

contract and the claim in relation to four invoices issued between 28 may and

28 july 2011 would fall outside of a six-year limitation period, they are not

time-barred. this is because s 24a(3)(b)

of the limitation act applies: the plaintiffs did not have the requisite

knowledge to bring a claim against the defendants until the auditor-general’s

report was issued on 9 february 2015, and a 3-year limitation period therefore

commenced from that date under s 24a(3)(b).

in the alternative, the claim for breach of fiduciary duties in relation to the

first ma contract would also not be time-barred by virtue of s 22(1) of the

limitation act. ms sylvia lim and mr low thia khiang fall within s 22(1)(a) because their breach of fiduciary

duties was “fraudulent” under s 22(1)(a),

which uses an expanded definition of “fraud” that does not require deceit or

personal gain. ms how weng fan falls within s 22(1)(b) because she had beneficially received ahtc’s funds under the

first ma contract: (at [473], [484], [487]).
whether the defence of good faith under s 52 tca applies
22          

section 52 of the tca does not apply in the

present case. on a proper reading, s 52 only protects town council members,

officers, etc, from personal liability to third parties, and not from

liability to the town council itself. interpreting s 52 as protecting members

and officers from liability to the town council would prevent the town council

from enforcing terms of employment contracts and pursuing other claims in

contract, tort or breach of fiduciary duties so long as the member or officer

acted in good faith in the performance of statutory duties. this would rewrite

many such obligations, and parliament cannot have intended to do so by the

terms of s 52 tca: (at [494], [495], [498]).
other defences raised by the sixth to eighth defendants
23          

the sixth and eighth defendants’ submissions

that they are entitled to relief under s 60 of the trustees act, that the

plaintiffs are estopped by convention from suing them, and that the independent

panel was invalidly appointed are rejected: (at [518], [522], [526]).
summary of the defendants’ liability
24          

the following table summarises the defendants’

liability in suit 668 and suit 716:




 


claim


liability of:




ms sylvia lim


mr low thia khiang


mr pritam singh


mr david chua


mr kenneth foo


ms how weng fan


mr danny loh


fmss






waiver of tender and appointment of

            fmss as ma and emsu provider




1


first

            ma contract


breach

            of fiduciary duties


breach

            of duties of skill and care


breach

            of fiduciary duties
dishonest

            assistance


dishonest

            assistance


dishonest assistance
knowing receipt




2


first

            emsu contract


breach

            of fiduciary duties
dishonest

            assistance




3


second

            ma and emsu contracts


no

            independent or continuing breach, but possible consequential loss




payments to fmss




4


control

            failures


breach

            of duties of skill and care


–




5


invoice

            for $106,559 dated 30 june 2011 and invoice for $166,591 dated 31 july 2011


no

            breach




6


payment

            of project management fees




7


miscellaneous

            improper payments to fmss


breach

            of duties of skill and care, except re. payments for overtime claims




improper award of

            contracts to third parties




8


lst

            architects


breach

            of duties of skill and care


no

            breach


breach

            of duties of skill and care


no

            breach


breach

            of duties of skill and care


no

            breach


–




9


red-power


breach

            of duties of skill and care, except re. inclusion of punggol-east


no

            breach


breach

            of duties of skill and care, except re. inclusion of punggol-east


no

            breach


–




10


rentokil


no

            breach




11


titan

            and j keart


breach

            of duties of skill and care


no

            breach


breach

            of duties of skill and care


no

            breach




improper payments to third parties




12


12

            invoices without supporting documents


no

            breach


–




13


56

            invoices without head of department signature




remedies which the plaintiffs are entitled to pursue
25          

contrary to prptc’s submission, the first to

seventh defendants are not trustees of ahtc’s assets. town councillors, like

company directors, may be akin to trustees, but are not trustees. town

councillors are, however, custodial fiduciaries. this means that they have

custodial duties over their town council’s assets, and may be ordered to reconstitute

those assets if they misapply them: (at [539],

[543]).
26          

although the finding that ms sylvia lim and mr

low thia khiang are custodial fiduciaries means that they are liable to give a

common account, the question is whether this makes any difference to the

reliefs the plaintiffs are entitled to for their breach of fiduciary duties.

following the decisions of the house of lords in target holdings ltd v

redferns (a firm) and another [1996] 1 ac 421 (“target holdings”) and the uk supreme court in aib group (uk) plc

v mark redler & co solicitors [2015] ac 1503 (“aib”), the same approach to equitable compensation ought to apply

to the remedy for a breach of a fiduciary duty, whether or not this is preceded

by the taking of a common account. when awarding equitable compensation, the

court should be concerned not so much with the fact of the misapplication of

the trust property, but rather the true or proper loss that is suffered. in the

present case, all the disbursements under the first and second ma and emsu

contracts could be said to involve the misapplication of ahtc’s monies.

however, in return ahtc had received ma and emsu services, which was something

it was required to procure. the loss flowing from the misapplication is

therefore prima facie the difference between the amount of money

misapplied and the value of the net benefits actually obtained by ahtc: (at [546], [563], [564], [566], [568]).
27          

the legal burden of proving loss falls upon the

plaintiffs. the evidential burden of proof likewise starts with the plaintiffs,

although equity will draw an adverse inference against the defaulting party

provided there is reason to believe that the transaction in question is dubious

in nature. further, the plaintiffs must prove that the defendants’ breach was the

but-for cause of their loss. the position in winsta holding pte ltd and another v sim poh ping and others [2018]

sghc 239 that but-for causation must be proven for all breaches of fiduciary

duties, which follows the position in target holdings and aib, is

therefore preferred over the alternative approaches: (at [576], [579], [584], [594], [602]).
28          

in addition, even if the court has the

discretion to order a common account in the present case, it would not exercise

this discretion. that is because the purpose of a common account is to identify

the whereabouts of the trust property, and there is no confusion as to where

and to whom ahtc’s funds were paid in the present case (at [608]).
29          

in respect of the other remedies sought by the

plaintiffs in relation to the defendants’ breach of fiduciary duties:
a.           

the plaintiffs may seek an account of profits

against ms how weng fan and mr danny loh, but they must elect between seeking

an account of profits and equitable compensation: (at [613]). 
b.           

the first ma and emsu contracts are voidable by virtue of being entered into

in breach of fiduciary duty, and the plaintiffs may seek to rescind them.

however, rescission of the contracts would also require the benefits received

by ahtc under them to be returned: (at [614],

[616]). 
c.            

in contrast, the plaintiffs’ submission that the

first ma and emsu contracts are void from the start because they are

unlawful as a matter of public law is rejected. although the first ma and emsu

contracts are unlawful as a matter of public law, they are nevertheless only

voidable, not void, because ahtc did not lack capacity to enter into those

contracts altogether: (at [618], [627]).
30          

in respect of the remaining remedies sought by

the plaintiffs:
a.           

the sixth to eighth defendants’ liability for

dishonest assistance is the same as the liability of ms sylvia lim and mr low

thia khiang for breach of fiduciary duties, including any consequential losses:

(at [630]).
b.           

fmss’s liability for knowing receipt only

extends to payments made by ahtc under the first

ma and emsu contracts, and prptc is also entitled to a tracing order against

fmss in respect of these payments: (at [632],

[633]).
c.            

the remedy for the defendants’ breaches of their

equitable duties of skill and care is identical to damages for negligence: (at [634]).
d.           

prptc’s submission that the defendants are

liable under rr 56(1) and 56(2) of the tcfr is rejected: (at [636]).
e.           

the plaintiffs may pursue claims against the

defendants for their investigation expenses as consequential losses flowing

from the defendants’ breaches: (at [639],

[640]).
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.