supreme court of singapore



9 october 2019



case summary


ufn v ufm

[2019] sgca 54





civil appeal no 169 of 2018




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice debbie ong):





outcome: coa explains the principles governing applications for

financial relief consequential on foreign matrimonial proceedings under

chapter 4a of part x of the women’s charter.



introduction



1 this appeal is the first case concerning ch 4a in part x of the women’s

charter (cap 353, 2009 rev ed) (“women’s charter”) to reach the court of

appeal. chapter 4a (containing ss 121a–g) was introduced fairly recently in

2011, providing a new regime for the application for financial relief after

a foreign divorce or nullity.






background to the proceedings



2 the appellant (“the husband”) and the respondent (“the wife”) solemnised

their marriage in jakarta in 1995. they have three children: two daughters

who are 22 and 18 years old, and a son who is ten years old. the parties

and their children are all permanent residents of singapore. at the time of

the hearing, the husband was residing in singapore, while the wife was

residing in indonesia with the children.




3 according to the wife, the marriage broke down because the husband began

physically and mentally abusing her and their children. the husband

eventually faced criminal proceedings in indonesia. on 23 july 2013, the

west jakarta district court found the husband guilty of “[d]omestic

physical violence and violence against children for committing in an

obscene action” and sentenced the husband to a term of imprisonment of

three years and six months, with a fine of idr100m (approximately $9,750).

the husband’s appeal was dismissed on 9 january 2014 by the west jakarta

high court, which enhanced his sentence to an imprisonment term of four

years and six months. the husband has not served his sentence.




4 the wife filed for divorce in indonesia during the ongoing criminal

proceedings. on 5 june 2013, the west jakarta district court granted the

divorce, ordered the husband to pay monthly maintenance for the three

children and declined to make any order in relation to “community

property”. the husband appealed to the jakarta high court, which dismissed

the appeal on 5 may 2014 save for varying the monthly maintenance sum

downwards. a further appeal to the indonesian supreme court was dismissed

on 27 august 2015.




5 on 21 october 2016, the wife applied under s 121d of the women’s charter

for leave to commence ch 4a proceedings. she sought an order for the

division of a property in singapore, which she jointly owned with the

husband (hereinafter referred to as the “seaview property”). her

application was dismissed by the district judge on 2 may 2017 on the sole

ground that the wife should have applied to the indonesian courts for

financial relief before applying for the same in singapore. the wife’s

appeal was allowed by the judicial commissioner of the high court (“the

judge”). given that there was no court of appeal decision on the scope and

application of the recently introduced provisions in ch 4a, the judge

granted the husband leave to appeal to the court of appeal.



the court’s decision 



6 an applicant must first obtain leave to apply for financial relief under

ch 4a of the women’s charter. the applicant must show that there is a

foreign divorce, annulment or judicial separation recognised as valid in

singapore. he or she must also establish that the singapore court has

jurisdiction over the matter as required by s 121c. next, the applicant

must show “substantial ground for the making of an application”.

“substantial ground” is made out if it would prima facie be

appropriate for the singapore court to grant relief, having regard to the

factors enumerated in s 121f and keeping in mind that the purpose of the

leave application is to filter out hopeless, frivolous or unmeritorious

cases. if leave is granted, the court will hear the application for

financial relief under s 121g at the next stage; in doing so, the court

must conclude, in all the circumstances, that it would be appropriate for

the singapore court to grant the relief, having regard to the s 121f

factors (at [34]).




7 the wife had obtained a valid divorce in the indonesian courts. while the

husband denied this at the hearing before the court of appeal, he had

accepted that there was a valid indonesian divorce order in an affidavit

and written submissions filed in the proceedings below (at    [35]–[39]).




8 the singapore courts have jurisdiction to grant financial relief. on the

husband’s latest position that he had been “active” in singapore since june

2014, the one–year habitual residence requirement in s 121c was made out

(at [40]–[42]).




9 it would prima facie be appropriate for a singapore court to

grant relief. the parties have a clear connection to singapore. the seaview

property is located in singapore. the parties and their children are

permanent residents of singapore. the family was living in the seaview

property from about 2009 to october 2012. the husband had also deposed that

he had been living in the seaview property since 2013. these were

sufficient to show that the wife has substantial ground for making her

application (at [45]).




10 it was not necessary for the wife to show that singapore is the more

appropriate forum to grant financial relief (as compared to indonesia).

while it would in general be appropriate for a court to hear both the

divorce and the ancillary matters, ch 4a clearly envisages that there will

be circumstances under which it would be appropriate for two jurisdictions

to be involved. such circumstances could relate to the fairness and

practicality of any foreign relief obtained by or available to the

applicant (at [47]).




11 an applicant is not required to exhaust foreign remedies before applying

to the singapore courts under ch 4a. thus, the fact that the wife clearly

had access to the indonesian courts does not preclude the singapore courts

from granting relief. further, the degree of scrutiny on the applicant’s

reasons for not applying for relief in a foreign jurisdiction varies

according to the parties’ connection to the jurisdiction in which she seeks

relief. since the parties have a clear connection to singapore, it was not

necessary to subject the wife’s reasons for not applying to the indonesian

courts to particularly close scrutiny or to treat her application with

undue suspicion at the leave stage. the appeal was therefore dismissed (at    [49]; [57]).




12 the court also expressed its view that serious consideration ought to be

given to amending rule 40 of the family justice rules 2014 (s 813/2014)

(“fjr”) to provide for applications for leave under s 121d to be heard    ex parte. under the current regime, an application for leave must

be made by originating summons which, unless the court otherwise directs,

must be served on the defendant at least five clear days before the date of

the case conference or hearing. the defendant may be heard even without

filing a memorandum of appearance: rule 40 of the fjr. thus both the

application for leave and the subsequent application for substantive

financial relief are heard inter partes (at [25]

).




13 the court observed that the current regime is less than satisfactory. it

requires the court to hear two rounds of arguments which add to costs and

time required to dispose of the matter. in the court’s view, the initial

application for leave ought to be made on an ex parte basis, where

the applicant must make proper and candid disclosure, establish that the

jurisdictional hurdles are crossed and show that there is substantial

ground for the making of the application. the court emphasised that the

defendant will, in any event, be entitled to make detailed submissions

after the applicant applies for financial relief pursuant to the leave

granted by the court. this would strike an appropriate balance between

according fairness to both parties on the one hand and ensuring that

applications are dealt with expeditiously on the other, bearing in mind

that an expeditious resolution benefits not just the applicant but also the

defendant (at [26]).








this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.