supreme court of singapore



30 september 2019



case summary


anita damu v public prosecutor 

[2019] sghc 233




magistrate’s appeal no 9358 of 2018





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the high court (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):





outcome: the high court sets aside the findings of the district

judge that the appellant suffered from auditory hallucinations, as the

psychiatrists’ evidence was of little relevance given the appellant’s

failure to testify on a factual issue.



facts



1 the appellant pleaded guilty to and was convicted of a number of charges

under the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) and the employment of foreign

manpower act (cap 91a, 2009 rev ed) arising from various acts of abuse

against her domestic helper (“the victim”). the appellant had committed

multiple acts of physical abuse, including scalding the victim with hot

water, placing a hot iron on the victim’s hands, and failing to provide the

victim with adequate rest. according to the statement of facts that the

appellant accepted without qualification, she committed these offences for

various reasons arising out of her frustration or anger with the victim. in

mitigation, the appellant asserted that she was suffering from major

depressive disorder (“mdd”) with psychotic features, and specifically that

she had experienced auditory hallucinations which made her commit the

offences. the appellant relied on the evidence of two psychiatrists, who

had both diagnosed her as suffering from mdd with psychotic features. the

prosecution disputed that the appellant experienced auditory hallucinations

at the time of the offences, and a newton hearing was eventually held. the

appellant did not however testify at the newton hearing, and her counsel

took the position that it was sufficient for him to adduce the evidence of

the psychiatrists to show that the appellant experienced auditory

hallucinations at the time of the offences. the district judge accepted the

psychiatrists’ diagnoses and sentenced the appellant to an aggregate

sentence of 31 months’ imprisonment as well as a compensation order of

$8,000 (in addition to the $4,000 voluntary compensation already made). the

prosecution and appellant both appealed against the sentence and the

compensation order.



decision of the high court



2 the main and in fact only point of contention between the parties was

whether the appellant experienced auditory hallucinations at the time of

the offences, which is a factual dispute that the court would be able to

resolve by hearing the evidence of the appellant. it is not readily

apparent how this is a question on a point requiring scientific, technical

or other specialised knowledge on which expert opinion would be relevant:

(at [25]).




3 since the burden of proof lies on the party making the assertion, it is

incumbent on the appellant to adduce the best evidence available in support

of her assertion that she heard voices which caused her to commit the

offences in question. this is something that is uniquely within her

personal knowledge, and thus the best evidence is that of the appellant

herself. an adverse inference may be drawn where an accused person fails to

testify as to matters within his personal knowledge, and instead uses

clearly inferior evidence without providing an acceptable reason for doing

so: (at [26]–[28]).




4 without the appellant’s direct evidence in court as to her experience of

auditory hallucinations, the psychiatrists’ opinion of her experience was

without a proven factual basis. it is not permissible for an expert to put

forth an opinion founded on the specific hearsay evidence of another

individual when the truthfulness of that other individual’s assertion is

hotly contested. since the court is ultimately tasked with evaluating the

expert opinion, the premise on which the expert’s conclusions are drawn

must necessarily be before the court so as to allow the court to ascertain

whether the expert’s conclusions are properly founded: (at    [30]–[31]).




5 even though an expert may not be prohibited from expressing an opinion on

the ultimate issue that is to be decided by the court, the court must

discharge its responsibility as the adjudicator to rule on the ultimate

issue, and must not adopt the expert’s opinion on the issue without

assessing its premises, logic, coherence and overall soundness. in the

present case, the psychiatrists’ evidence may be relevant to show that the

appellant’s reported symptoms were consistent with the diagnosed illness,

but it cannot substitute the court’s findings as to the appellant’s

credibility. it remains the responsibility of the court to ascertain

whether the appellant in fact heard voices leading to the commission of the

offences. in the absence of any direct evidence from the appellant, the

district judge had no factual basis on which to make a finding as to the

veracity of the appellant’s assertion: (at [36]–[37]).




6 the appellant did not make a clear election not to testify at the hearing

below with full knowledge that to do so would be to undermine the

psychiatrists’ evidence. thus, the fair course is to put the appellant to

an election now as to whether she wishes to adduce evidence on the factual

question of whether she in fact experienced auditory hallucinations at the

relevant times that led to the commission of these offences, and if so,

what evidence she wishes to adduce: (at [45]–[47]).




7 there are several inconsistencies between the statement of facts and the

appellant’s assertion in mitigation that she suffered from mdd with

psychotic features. it is not fair to bind the appellant to the statement

of facts even though she accepted it without qualifications, since it ought

to have been apparent to both parties as well as the district judge that

there were inconsistencies which ought to have been resolved at the hearing

below: (at [49]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.