supreme court of singapore
30 september

2019
case summary
bi xiaoqiong (in her personal capacity

and as trustee of the xiao qiong bi trust and the alisa wu irrevocable trust) v

china medical technologies, inc (in liquidation) and another
[2019] sgca 50 
civil appeal no 188 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by justice judith prakash):
<coa gives

its reasons for dismissing the appeal against grant of mareva injunction and

sets out the conditions required for the exercise of the court’s power to grant

mareva injunctions in support of foreign court proceedings> 
1          this was an appeal against the decision

of a high court judge (“the judge”) to grant a mareva injunction. 
background to the appeal
2        the second respondent, cmed

technologies ltd (“cmed”), was the wholly-owned subsidiary of the first

respondent, china medical technologies, inc (“cmt”). mr wu xiaodong (“mr wu”)

founded cmt and ran it until it was wound up in 2012. the appellant was ms bi

xiaoqiong (“ms bi” or “the appellant”). ms bi and ms wu were married in 1995,

and were divorced in 2012: at [3]-[5]. 
3          after investigating the affairs of cmt

and cmed, the liquidators of cmt (“the liquidators”) took the view that as much

as us$521.8m had been fraudulently misappropriated from the respondents by

members of their former management. the respondents therefore started a series

of legal proceedings against these persons in hong kong and singapore. the

respondents alleged in these lawsuits that the us$521.8m had been paid out of

the respondents’ accounts through a series of banking transactions controlled

by cmt’s former management. the recipients of some of the funds allegedly included

mr wu and ms bi: at [6] and [10]. 
4          in august 2013, cmt commenced

proceedings in hong kong against mr wu and four others (“the first hk suit”).

in december 2016, the respondents commenced another set of proceedings in hong

kong against mr wu, ms bi and 21 other defendants (“the second hk suit”). in

december 2017, the respondents commenced suit no 1180 of 2017 (“suit 1180”) in

singapore, and applied for mareva injunctions against mr wu and ms bi. the

claims in suit 1180 were substantially the same as those pursued in the second

hk suit. the mareva injunctions sought were to prevent mr wu and ms bi from

disposing of their assets in singapore only (ie, the respondents did not seek worldwide mareva injunctions). in

relation to ms bi, the order sought to restrain the disposal of funds in

various bank accounts, as well as a property in singapore which she held

jointly with mr wu (“the coral island property”). in february 2018, the

respondents applied to stay suit 1180, save for the proceedings in the

application for mareva injunctions, pending the final determination of the first

and second hk suits: at [12]-[14] and [18].
5          the judge granted the respondents’

application for a mareva injunction against ms bi. the judge accepted that the

court had a power to grant a mareva injunction in aid of foreign court

proceedings and that the facts justified the grant of the injunction. the judge

further granted the respondents’ application to stay suit 1180 as it was not

disputed that hong kong was the more appropriate forum of the dispute: at [21]-[23]. 
6          on appeal, ms bi contended that the

court did not have the power to grant a mareva injunction against her, and that

even if the court had the power, the injunction should not have been granted: at

[28] and [128].
decision on appeal
6          the

court of appeal dismissed ms bi’s appeal, and affirmed the judge’s decision to

grant the mareva injunction: at [156].
7          on the issue of whether the high court

had the power to grant a mareva injunction against the appellant, the court of

appeal held that the high court had this power for the following reasons: 
a.         section 4(10) of the civil law act (cap

43, 1999 rev ed) (“the cla”) confers on the court a wide power to grant

mandatory orders or injunctions. the only express requirements imposed are that

the injunction must be of an “interlocutory” nature, and that it can be made

only in “cases in which it appears to the court to be just or convenient that

such order should be made”. as a starting point, it was broad enough to

encompass mareva injunctions in aid of foreign court proceedings: at [37]. 
b.         the legislative purpose underlying s

4(10) of the cla did not preclude the court’s powers to grant injunctions in

aid of foreign court proceedings. section 4(10) of the cla may be traced back

to its original enactment as s 2(8) of the straits settlements ordinance no iv

of 1878 (“the 1878 ordinance”), which was based on, and largely identical to, s

25(8) of the supreme court of judicature act 1873 (c 66) (uk) (“the 1873 uk

act”). the legislative intent behind s 2(8) of the 1878 ordinance was to

preserve the power of the court to grant the equitable remedy of injunctions,

as part of the broader aim of the 1878 ordinance to facilitate the concurrent

administration of law and equity. there was little reason to conclude that s

25(8) of the 1873 uk act was intended to limit the powers of the court to

granting discrete types of injunctions. instead, the intention underlying s

25(8) of the 1873 uk act was to preserve the power of the court to grant injunctions.

that was the power to restrain conduct of all kinds, and is as broad as that

which the courts of equity had. the mareva injunction is but a specific

manifestation of the broader power of the court to restrain the conduct of

person(s) before it: at [40]-[41], [50], [57] and [59].
c.         the court’s power, though broad, is

subject to at least two conditions. the first is that the court must have personal

jurisdiction over the defendant (obtained by way of proper service of the writ

on the defendant or where the defendant submits to the jurisdiction of the

court), and the second is that the plaintiff must have a reasonable accrued

cause of action against the defendant in singapore. there was no further

requirement that the cause of action against the defendant must also terminate

in a judgment rendered by the court that issues the injunction. although the respondents’

application to stay suit 1180 carried with it the possibility that no judgment

will eventually be granted by the singapore court, that did not deprive the

court of its jurisdiction to grant a mareva injunction. where a stay of an

action is sought, the court retains a residual jurisdiction over the underlying

cause of action. this is a sound juridical basis on which to ground the court’s

power to grant a mareva injunction and is consistent with the recognition that

a mareva injunction in aid of foreign proceedings is ultimately still premised

on, and in support of, proceedings in singapore. that a mareva injunction is

expressed to be “in aid of foreign proceedings” is simply terminology, and

acknowledges the reality that the plaintiff who obtains such a mareva

injunction intends to employ the mareva injunction in aid of foreign

proceedings. a mareva injunction of this nature may assist the plaintiff by

ensuring that the plaintiff would have assets in singapore over which to

enforce the foreign judgment: at [62],

[104], [109] and [111]-[112]. 
8          the court of appeal also affirmed that

the judge had acted appropriately in exercising the power to grant a mareva

injunction against the appellant:  
a.         the respondents had a good arguable

case on the merits at least in relation to the claim in knowing receipt. the

judge correctly found that the appellant, being unable to give a reasonable

explanation as to why large sums of money were sent to her by various payors,

must have been aware that the source of the funds was dubious: at [133] and [138].
b.         there was solid evidence of a real risk

of dissipation of assets on the part of the appellant. there was no basis to

disturb the judge’s finding that the appellant had given no good explanation

for the attempted sales of the coral island property, and a property in the

state of nevada, usa (“the nevada property”): at [143]-[144]. 
c.         the facts did not indicate an

inordinate delay on the part of the respondents in seeking the mareva

injunction. although the liquidators had suspected as early as in 2012 that the

appellant had received funds which were the proceeds of the alleged fraud on

the respondents, 2012 was not the appropriate start date by which to judge the

delay, if any, on the part of the respondents. the respondents based their

application for mareva relief on the appellant’s attempted sales of the coral

island property and the nevada property. the attempted sales were discovered in

november 2017 and this was promptly followed by the application for a mareva

injunction. the period of three to four weeks did not constitute such delay as

to indicate that the application was an abuse of process: at [149]-[153].
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.