supreme court of singapore



27 september 2019



case summary





suntech power investment pte ltd v power solar system co ltd (in

liquidation)






[2019] sgca 52





civil appeal no 109 of 2018 (summons no 58 of 2019)





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal andrew

phang boon leong):


outcome: coa imposes unless order to the effect that unless the appellant pays into court by the stipulated deadline the value of a key asset which it dissipated in breach of a mareva injunction, its appeal would be struck out as an abuse of the process of the court. [by way of a postscript, as the appellant did not do so by 7 august 2019, the said appeal was automatically struck out as an abuse of the process of the court.] 
pertinent and significant points of the judgment: 


where a party can show that the other party has been and continues to be in contumelious breach of a court order, it would be reasonable and logical for the court, especially when the latter party has already been held to be in contempt of court for breaching the said court order, to find that such conduct evidences that party’s lack of genuine or bona fide interest in obtaining the reliefs it is seeking from instituting legal proceedings: at [51]. 


in determining whether a court order has been complied with, the court will scrutinise the language and the spirit of the court order. where there is purported compliance by way of acts which do not comport with what the court order was intended to achieve in the first place, such acts would not suffice and the party concerned would continue to be in contumelious breach of the court order. the result of such continued legal recalcitrance will almost invariably be severe: at [2] and [52]. 




background to the appeal


1 the respondent is a company incorporated in the british virgin islands

and wholly owned by suntech power holdings co ltd (“sph”), a company

incorporated in the cayman islands. the respondent operated as an

investment holding company, whereas sph was a solar panel producer. sph was

the ultimate holding company for multiple subsidiaries and affiliated

companies (collectively, “the sph group”).




2 the appellant is a company incorporated in singapore and was previously

part of the sph group. it operated as an investment holding company engaged

in equity investments. between 8 october 2007 and 15 may 2013, the

appellant was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the respondent. thereafter, the

respondent transferred its ownership of the appellant to another company.

the appellant is now no longer part of the sph group nor a subsidiary of

the respondent.




3 prior to the breaking up of the sph group, the respondent had entered

into a number of transactions with the appellant. those transactions formed

the basis of the respondent’s claims against the appellant in suit no 59 of

2014 (“the suit”), which was for a total sum of us$197,501,785. the

respondent’s claims were for: (a) the amount due under three loans made by

the respondent to the appellant which were repayable on demand; and (b) the

purchase price of us$55.56m which was allegedly payable by the appellant to

the respondent under a share transfer agreement between them dated 8 august

2008 (“the share price claim”).




4 the share transfer agreement in question in the share price claim was an

agreement for the sum of us$55.56m to be paid by the appellant to the

respondent for the appellant’s purchase of the respondent’s 100%

shareholding in suntech power co ltd (“shanghai suntech”). pursuant to this

share transfer agreement, the appellant became the sole shareholder of

shanghai suntech.




5 pending the trial of the suit, the respondent discovered that the

appellant had sold its shares in four of its subsidiaries and suspected

that the appellant was attempting to dispose of its shareholdings in two of

its other subsidiaries. the respondent then filed a summons in the suit

seeking a worldwide mareva injunction against the appellant (“the mareva

injunction”). this was granted on 4 september 2014. the mareva injunction

contained the usual orders. among other things, it: (a) prohibited the

appellant from disposing of any of its assets, including (among other

assets) its shares in shanghai suntech; (b) required the appellant to file

an affidavit disclosing all of its assets and their value, location and

details (“disclosure of assets affidavit”); and (c) required the appellant

to inform the respondent whenever it dealt with or disposed of any of its

assets in the ordinary and proper course of business.




6 the trial for the suit was held from 14 to 17 may 2018, and on 5 july

2018, the high court judge (“the judge”) gave judgment for the respondent

for the sum of us$197,501,785. the appellant filed its notice of appeal (    viz, civil appeal no 109 of 2018 (“ca 109/2018”)) the next day.

the respondent then applied to convert the mareva injunction to a

post-judgment mareva injunction to aid the enforcement of the judgment.

this was granted in december 2018.




7 as at late 2018, the appellant had yet to file the disclosure of assets

affidavit required under the mareva injunction even though more than four

years had passed by then since the injunction was imposed. the respondent

also discovered that the appellant had breached the mareva injunction by

disposing of its shares in shanghai suntech for a mere rmb2 in september

2018 and by disposing of two of its other subsidiaries.




8 the respondent then commenced committal proceedings against the

appellant. the judge found the appellant to be in contempt of court for

committing the aforesaid breaches of the mareva injunction. she ordered the

appellant to: (a) pay a fine of s$100,000; (b) pay into court a sum of

s$100,000 to secure its compliance with the mareva injunction; and (c) pay

the respondent the costs of the committal proceedings as well as the costs

incidental to and also of the issue and execution of the committal order

(“the contempt order”). the appellant did not comply with the contempt

order and a number of costs orders made against it in the suit.




9 the respondent then filed summons no 58 of 2019 (“sum 58”) for an unless

order to the effect that unless the appellant paid into court the judgment

sum awarded to the respondent in the suit as well as complied with a number

of other orders made by the judge, its appeal in ca 109/2018 would be

dismissed or, alternatively, stayed without further order. sum 58 was

subsequently amended, pursuant to leave granted by the court of appeal

(“the coa”), to include a prayer that ca 109/2018 be struck out because it

was an abuse of the court’s process.



 


the coa’s decision



10 the coa has the inherent jurisdiction to strike out a notice of appeal

where the appeal is plainly not competent, or where the appeal is

frivolous, vexatious or an abuse of the process of the court: at    [46].




11 the coa held that where a party can show that the other party has been

and continues to be in contumelious breach of a court order, it would be

reasonable and logical for the court, especially when the latter party has

already been held to be in contempt of court for breaching the said court

order, to find that such conduct evidences a lack of genuine or    bona fide interest on the part of that party in obtaining the

reliefs it is seeking from instituting legal proceedings, and that the

legal proceedings were brought for an ulterior or collateral purpose in

abuse of the court’s process: at [51].




12 in determining whether the party in breach has complied with the court

order concerned, the court will scrutinise the language and the spirit of

the court order. where there is purported compliance by way of acts that do

not comport with what the court order was intended to achieve in the first

place, such acts would not suffice and the party in breach would continue

to be in contumelious breach of the court order. the result of such

continued legal recalcitrance would almost invariably be severe: at    [2] and [52].




13 in the present case, the appellant’s disposal of its shares in shanghai

suntech in breach of the mareva injunction and its failure to comply with

its disclosure obligations thereunder were critical to the coa’s finding

that the appellant was and continued to be in contumelious breach of the

mareva injunction: at [53].




14 with regard to the disposal of the appellant’s shares in shanghai

suntech, the coa held that where assets had been dissipated in breach of a

mareva injunction, the party in breach must account for that disposal and

must restore those assets or their equivalent in value back to its asset

pool in order to comply with the said injunction. on a similar but related

note, where the party in breach had been found to be in contempt of court

for breaching an order of court (ie, the mareva injunction in this

case) and had been punished for it, that party must still comply with the

underlying court order that gave rise to the contempt proceedings in the

first place. in other words, in this case, the punishment for contempt of

court meted out on the appellant for breaching the mareva injunction did

not absolve it from its obligation to comply with the said injunction by

restoring the value of its shares in shanghai suntech to its asset pool

(indeed, such restoration was all the more critical as the appellant’s

shares in shanghai suntech were the subject matter of the share price claim

brought by the respondent in the suit). put simply, one must distinguish

the obligations to be complied with under a court order from the sanctions

and punishments that are imposed when such obligations are not complied

with. both the obligations on the one hand and the corresponding sanctions

and punishments on the other are related but distinct. the sanctions and

punishments therefore do not in any way absolve the contemnor from

complying with the underlying court order that gave rise to the contempt

proceedings in the first place: at [62]-    [66].




15 on the facts, the coa found that the appellant’s explanation for the

disposal of its shares in shanghai suntech in september 2018 for a mere

rmb2 - namely, that shanghai suntech had been in financial distress since

2014 and had to be urgently sold to new owners who could inject fresh

capital into the company - was not supported by any credible evidence. the

appellant also made no attempts to comply with the mareva injunction by

restoring the value of its shares in shanghai suntech to its asset pool

even though the appellant or its ultimate controller had the ability to do

so and to thereby undo the breach of the mareva injunction. the appellant’s

contention that shanghai suntech and, in turn, its shares in shanghai

suntech had little or no net value was without basis since it was not

supported by any formal valuation of shanghai suntech and of the

appellant’s shares therein: at [58]-[59]

and [67]-[74].




16 with regard to the appellant’s failure to comply with its disclosure

obligations under the mareva injunction, the coa found that the appellant

provided no credible explanation as to why it did not file its disclosure

of assets affidavit despite numerous reminders by the respondent for it to

do so. the coa also found that the disclosure of assets made in the

appellant’s affidavit filed in the course of sum 58 was inadequate as that

affidavit did not provide any up-to-date financial information on the

appellant’s subsidiaries. on this, the coa further found that the appellant

had provided no credible explanation as to why it was unable to obtain the

information necessary to comply with its disclosure obligations: at    [79]-[92].




17 for the foregoing reasons, the coa found that the appellant was in

contumelious breach of the mareva injunction and had no intention of

complying with the said injunction in relation to both its disposal of its

shares in shanghai suntech and its disclosure obligations. this was

sufficient to show that the appellant had brought ca 109/2018 for reasons

other than to seek the court’s relief. ca 109/2018 was therefore an abuse

of the court’s process and should be struck out. nonetheless, in the

interests of justice and fairness, the coa ordered that unless the

appellant paid into court the value of its shares in shanghai suntech,

which the coa took to be us$55.56m, by 7 august 2019, ca 109/2018 would be

struck out as an abuse of the process of the court: at    [95]-[98]. [by way of a postscript, as

the appellant did not do so by 7 august 2019, its appeal was automatically

struck out as an abuse of the process of the court.]





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.