supreme court of singapore



13 september 2019



case summary




the enterprise fund iii ltd and others v oue lippo healthcare ltd

(formerly known as international healthway corp ltd)


[2019] sgca 48 


civil appeal no 119 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh

menon)





outcome: court of appeal dismisses appeal and upholds high court’s

decision that the respondent’s indirect acquisition of its own shares by

way of a three-step transaction with the appellants contravened the

prohibition against a company acquiring its own shares and was therefore

void.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment:





    even those parts of a transaction that are not the final or most

    proximate step in a series of steps taken to effect a company’s

    acquisition of its own shares might nonetheless be caught by the

    prohibition in s 76(1a)(a)(i) of the companies act against

    a company acquiring its own shares if they are sufficiently

    proximate to the share acquisition. whether there is sufficient

    proximity depends on the commercial substance of the transaction:

    at [50]–[52].

    




    section 76a(1a) of the companies act, which saves a share

    acquisition that is prohibited by s 76(1a)(a)(i) from

    being made void if it involves a “disposition of book-entry

    securities”, applies only where there is a transfer of shares

    involving a change in the legal title to the shares: at            [98]–[103].

    



background to the appeal
1     the respondent (“ihc”) is a company incorporated in singapore and

listed on the catalist board of the singapore exchange (“sgx”). the

appellants (the “crest funds”) are three investment funds under the

crest umbrella of companies (“crest entities”).

        
2     in early april 2015, ihc, after noticing an unusual sale pattern of

its shares, considered that there was a high probability that it

would be the subject of a short-selling attack. to defend ihc

against such an attack, ihc’s representative, mr andrew aathar (“mr

aathar”), asked the crest entities to provide a standby facility of

$20m for use against the attack.

        
3     the crest entities agreed to this, and a standby facility agreement

(the “standby facility agreement”) was entered into, by which a

standby facility in the principal amount of $20m (the “standby

facility”) was made available to ihc. various security agreements

securing the standby facility (the “supporting security

agreements”) were also entered into. the crest entities which were

the original parties to the standby facility agreement were later

replaced by the crest funds.

 
4     mr aathar suggested to the crest entities that instead of

disbursing the funds under the standby facility to ihc to be paid

to a broker to fund the purchase of ihc shares, the crest entities

could purchase the shares on ihc’s behalf through their own broker.

the crest entities’ representative, mr tan yang hwee (“mr tan”),

agreed to this approach as it seemed to avoid a circuitous

arrangement and also gave the crest entities additional security in

respect of drawdowns on the standby facility.

        
5     between 16 april and 24 august 2015, the first appellant (“efiii”)

made 14 drawdowns on the standby facility, amounting in total to

$17,332,081.15, to purchase ihc shares on the open market. each of

those acquisitions (the “open market acquisitions”) was made at the

behest and on the instructions of mr aathar on ihc’s behalf. the

ihc shares purchased by efiii were held on trust for ihc (the

“trust arrangement”).

        
6     on 9 september 2015, sgx issued an announcement advising

shareholders and potential investors to exercise caution in dealing

with ihc shares as it appeared that connected parties were trading

ihc shares amongst themselves. ihc’s share price plummeted as a

result. following this announcement, ihc defaulted on the standby

facility.

        
7     on 23 january 2017, ihc’s board of directors was removed in its

entirety by ihc’s shareholders. after taking over control of ihc,

the new board discovered that the transaction by which ihc acquired

its own shares (the “transaction”) contravened the companies act

(cap 50, 2006 rev ed) (the “ca”). on 8 march 2017, ihc gave the

crest funds written notice that it wished to avoid the acquisition

of its shares by efiii and the standby facility. the crest funds

replied through their solicitors denying that the share acquisition

and the standby facility were void or voidable.

        
8     ihc then commenced an action in the high court for declarations

that the standby facility and the supporting security agreements

(collectively, the “loan agreements”) as well as efiii’s

acquisition of ihc shares on ihc’s behalf were voidable, and had

been avoided by way of ihc’s written notice of 8 march 2017.

        

the decision below
9     the high court judge (“the judge”) found that the transaction

comprised three components. first, there was the trust arrangement,

by which efiii held the ihc shares which it purchased on the open

market on trust for ihc. second, there were the open market

acquisitions, by which efiii acquired ihc shares. third, there were

the loan agreements, by which funds were made available to ihc to

acquire its own shares.

        
10     the judge held that the trust arrangement and the open market

acquisitions contravened the prohibition in s 76(1a)(a)(i)

of the ca against a company acquiring, “whether directly or

indirectly, in any way”, its own shares, but the open market

acquisitions were saved by s 76a(1a) from being made void pursuant

to s 76a(1)(a). the loan agreements were voidable under s

76a(2) for being related to the prohibited acquisition of ihc

shares, and had been avoided by ihc by way of its written notice of

8 march 2017. ihc thus bore no contractual obligation or liability

whatsoever to the crest funds in respect of the transaction.

        

the court of appeal’s decision


characterisation of the transaction
11     the court of appeal (“the court”) began by examining the ambit of a

prohibited indirect acquisition by a company of its own shares for

the purposes of s 76(1a)(a)(i). it held that even those

parts of a transaction that were not the final or most proximate

step in a series of steps taken to effect a company’s acquisition

of its own shares might nonetheless be caught by the prohibition if

they were sufficiently proximate to the intended outcome of the

company acquiring its own shares. whether there was sufficient

proximity would depend on the commercial substance of the

transaction, which would necessarily be fact-specific and vary from

case to case: at [50]–[52].

        
12     in assessing the commercial substance of an impugned transaction,

it was useful to consider the rationale behind the prohibition in s

76(1a)(a)(i). there were two core strands within the

rationale, namely, maintenance of a company’s share capital and

protection of its assets. a transaction which caused a company’s

capital and/or assets to be depleted or put at risk would readily

be found to be caught by the prohibition and rendered void by s

76a(1)(a). that said, given the wide language used in s

76(1a)(a)(i), a transaction might still be found to be

caught by the prohibition even if it did not deplete or put at risk

a company’s capital and/or assets: at [53],            [63] and [64].

 
13in this case, the entire transaction, comprising the loan

agreements, the open market acquisitions and the trust arrangement,

constituted a single, composite transaction that was caught by the

prohibition in s 76(1a)(a)(i). it was clear that the trust

arrangement and the open market acquisitions stood together as a

matter of commercial substance. each of the 14 drawdowns on the

standby facility was used to purchase ihc shares, and each of those

share purchases was made at the behest and on the instructions of

mr aathar representing ihc. the loan agreements, too, were

inseparable from the open market acquisitions and the trust

arrangement. this was because the crest funds knew from the outset

that the standby facility would be used to purchase ihc shares, and

this purpose was carried into effect by one of the crest funds

itself, when efiii executed ihc’s instructions, as given by mr

aathar, to purchase ihc shares. without the loan agreements having

been entered into, ihc would not have been put in funds to purchase

its own shares. hence, the transaction as a whole was void pursuant

to s 76a(1)(a), subject to any part being saved by s

76a(1a): at [66]–[69] and            [73]–[83].

        




the scope of the saving provision in s 76a(1a) of the ca

        
14     the court then considered the saving provision in s 76a(1a) of the

ca, which dis-applies the voiding provision in s 76a(1)(a)

in respect of “disposition[s] of book-entry securities”. the court

examined the legislative history and the text of s 76a(1a), and was

satisfied that the provision had a very specific provenance lying

in a suite of amendments intended to put into effect the

introduction of a scripless trading system, namely, the central

depository system: at [95].

      
15     the court held that s 76a(1a) applied only to the open market

acquisitions of ihc shares, but, contrary to the crest funds’

contention, not to the trust arrangement. this was because a

“disposition” within the meaning of s 76a(1a) entailed a change in

the legal title to the shares or securities concerned. the trust

arrangement did not involve any such transfer of legal title as ihc

was never given the legal title to the ihc shares which efiii

purchased on the open market: at [97]–            [103].

        


ihc was not estopped from avoiding the loan agreements
16     the court turned finally to consider the crest funds’ argument that

ihc was estopped from avoiding the loan agreements by virtue of

certain representations it had made in the standby facility

agreement that: (a) the entry into the standby facility agreement

would not contravene any laws; and (b) it would take all necessary

steps to enable it lawfully to enter into the standby facility: at            [110]–[112].

        
17     the court held that ihc was not estopped from avoiding the loan

agreements. to permit such an estoppel to apply would be to allow

the estoppel impermissibly to operate in defiance of a statute, in

that the estoppel would have the effect of creating a state of

affairs where the transaction was not void when s 76a(1)(a

) clearly made it void (apart from the open market acquisitions,

which were saved by s 76a(1a)): at [122] and            [126].

        

conclusion
18     the result was that the entire transaction amounted to a prohibited

indirect acquisition by ihc of its own shares, which contravened s

76(1a)(a)(i) and was made void by s 76a(1)(a),

with the exception of the open market acquisitions, which were

saved by s 76a(1a). the practical result of this was that efiii was

the legal and beneficial owner of the ihc shares it acquired

through the open market acquisitions, and ihc owed no contractual

obligations or liability to the crest funds under the loan

agreements as they were void: at [134] and            [136].

        
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the

court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the

court’s judgment.