supreme court of singapore
14 february

2018 
case summary
public prosecutor v mohd ariffan bin

mohd hassan 

criminal motion no 24 of 2017 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
coa sets out

guidance on the principles governing the adduction of further evidence on

appeal in the context of criminal appeals. 

1                    this was an

application by the prosecution to adduce further evidence in its appeal against

the trial judge’s acquittal of the respondent on five charges involving

allegations of serious sexual offences. the central issue in the application was

whether the conditions for the adduction of further evidence on appeal as set

out in the case of ladd v marshall [1954]

1 wlr 1389 (“ladd v marshall”) ought

in any way to be modified in the context of criminal appeals. 

background facts

2                    the respondent was charged with the

offences of rape, aggravated outrage of modesty and sexual assault by digital

penetration against the complainant, who was between the ages of 15 and 16 at

the time of commission of the alleged offences. the prosecution claimed that on

two separate occasions, the respondent drove the complainant in a red prime

mover to a forested area and raped her at the back of the cabin of the prime mover.

according to the prosecution, the respondent also committed digital-vaginal

penetration of the complainant on two occasions while they were in the flat

where they lived together with the complainant’s family. these events came to

light only gradually. the complainant first confided in her boyfriend sometime

in 2010. in 2011, the complainant informed her mother of certain aspects of the

sexual abuse after having been pressured by her boyfriend to do so. the full

extent of the respondent’s alleged wrongdoing only came to light after the

complainant revealed her experiences to her sister, who informed the

complainant that she had similarly been subjected to unwanted sexual advances

from the respondent. they decided to inform their brother about the respondent’s

conduct. their brother then lodged a police report. 

3                    the respondent

contested all five charges at trial and denied that he had ever sexually

assaulted or raped the complainant. he claimed that he had never driven the

prime mover in which the rape was alleged to have occurred. at trial, mr sim,

the owner of the company that employed the respondent, testified under cross-examination

that an employee named “idris” had been assigned to drive the prime mover

during the material period. it is not disputed that this was the first time

that the existence of “idris” was made known to the prosecution.

4                    the high court judge (“the judge”)

acquitted the respondent of all five charges against him. the judge noted mr

sim’s evidence that “idris” drove the prime mover between 2009 and 2011 and

would sleep in the vehicle after work instead of going home. he found that

there were no reasons to account for the complainant’s failure to promptly complain

to her boyfriend and family members about the sexual assaults. he also observed

that when she eventually broke her silence, her accounts were “contradictory

and inconsistent” despite the fact that she had ample time to recall the forms

of abuse that she had suffered. the judge concluded that these and other

matters had a negative impact on the complainant’s credibility.

5           the prosecution appealed against the

acquittal and, at the same time, also filed an application to admit further

evidence pursuant to s 392 of the criminal procedure code (cap 68, 2012 rev ed)

(“the cpc”). the further evidence consisted primarily of an affidavit by idris’

son, as well as an expert report by ms ng pei yu, vivienne, who is the chief

psychologist at the ministry of social and family development. the prosecution sought

to adduce the affidavit of matin, who is idris’ son, in order to rebut mr sim’s

evidence regarding idris. in his affidavit, matin explained that he had never

seen his father drive a red prime mover and that idris did not have a habit of

sleeping in prime movers. the prosecution’s purpose in seeking to adduce ms

ng’s expert report was to enable it to address certain mistaken conceptions of

rape victims that it claimed the judge held, and which became apparent only

after the judge had issued his grounds of decision.

decision of the court

approach

to assessing applications by the prosecution to admit further evidence on

appeal 

6                    the court

of appeal began by addressing the fundamental dispute between the parties

concerning the approach to be taken where it is the prosecution, as opposed to

an accused person, that seeks to adduce further evidence on appeal. further

evidence will not ordinarily be admitted at the hearing of the appeal but this

may be permitted where certain conditions laid down in the seminal decision in ladd v marshall are satisfied. the

previous jurisprudence of the court established that these requirements may be

attenuated where the application was brought by the accused person. the

question presented in this appeal invited consideration of whether those

requirements ought in any way to be

modified – whether by way of attenuation or enhancement – when it is the

prosecution that makes such an application. ([35])

7                    the

court of appeal held

that unlike applications by accused persons, the conditions set out in ladd v marshall should continue to apply

in an unattenuated manner to applications by the prosecution to admit further

evidence in a criminal appeal. the simple but compelling reason for this

difference in treatment is that the justifications for attenuating the ladd v marshall conditions in assessing

applications by accused persons simply do not apply where the applicant is the

prosecution. first, there is an obvious need to avoid the considerable

prejudice that would be suffered by an accused person who is wrongfully

convicted or who receives a manifestly disproportionate sentence relative to

his culpability. the law strains against and works doubly hard to prevent any

erroneous deprivation of liberty. the second reason for assessing applications

by accused persons more leniently than those by the prosecution is the

disparity of resources between the prosecution and accused persons generally.

the prosecution works in tandem with the police, which has wide-ranging powers

to collect any evidence it deems necessary. the prosecution also has the

discretion to decide when charges should be brought against an accused. this

forms the basis for a reasonable expectation that the prosecution is in

possession of all the evidence it deems necessary to make its case by the time

of trial, and conversely, justifies a comparatively more accommodating attitude

in relation to attempts by accused persons to admit new evidence on appeal.

finally, the court of appeal highlighted that an accused person defending

criminal charges experiences a strain and anxiety that is difficult for those

who have not endured a similar ordeal to imagine. in the court’s view, fairness

demands that sufficient recognition be accorded to the nature of this

experience and its likely effect on the accused’s ability to fully and soundly

consider the nature of the evidence he will need at trial. for these reasons, the

court of appeal held that a more accommodating attitude toward applications by

accused persons is amply justified. ([56]–[61]) 

refinements

to ladd v marshall  

8                    the court

of appeal also introduced two refinements to the approach in ladd v marshall in the context of

criminal appeals. the first pertained to the requirement that the evidence

“could not have been obtained with reasonable diligence for use at the trial”,

also known as the condition of non-availability. the court of appeal held that

when an appellate court determines whether the requirement of non-availability

has been satisfied, it should also turn its mind to the issue of whether the

evidence sought to be admitted on appeal was reasonably not thought to be

necessary at trial. if a party ought reasonably to have been aware, either

prior to or in the course of trial, that the evidence would have a bearing on

its case, and that party fails to make a sufficient attempt to adduce the

evidence at trial, this should militate against permitting the party to

subsequently have that evidence admitted on appeal. but where it was reasonably

not apprehended that the evidence would or could have a bearing on the case at

hand, a different result should ensue. the court of appeal explained that the

inquiry as to whether a party would reasonably have been aware of and procured

the further evidence in the course of trial is an essential consideration to

ensure fairness and due process. ([68]–[69])

9                    the second

refinement concerned the need to bear in mind the implications of allowing an

application to adduce further evidence on the course of the proceedings and the

position of each party. the court of appeal held that this requires the court

to look ahead to the likely consequences of a decision to admit the fresh

evidence. put another way, it is relevant for the court to consider the proportionality of allowing the

application and admitting the further evidence. this requires the court to

assess the balance between the significance of the new evidence, on the one

hand, and the need for the swift conduct of litigation together with any

prejudice that might arise from the additional proceedings, on the other. the

court of appeal emphasised that where evidence that favoured the respondent at

the trial would no longer be available at the further proceedings (whether this

is a retrial or some other type of proceedings) to be ordered if the new

evidence were admitted, and it would be necessary for this evidence to be

re-examined or led again at the further proceedings in light of the new

evidence, this would weigh heavily against allowing the application. ([72]–[75])
application to the facts

10          the court of

appeal found that matin’s evidence failed to meet the condition of non-availability.

there was no evidence to show that the prosecution or the investigation team

had made sufficient enquiries to ascertain the identity of the drivers of the

prime mover during the relevant period. if such investigations had been

conducted, the existence of idris would likely have surfaced much earlier.

further, even assuming that the prosecution would not have known of idris’

existence had it exercised reasonable diligence prior to trial, it was

undeniable that the prosecution became aware of idris’ existence when mr sim

was cross-examined. despite the obvious importance of the evidence disclosed,

the prosecution chose not to seek an adjournment for further investigations

before closing its case. ([82]–[83])

11                  in relation

to ms ng’s expert report, the court of appeal found that the requirement of

non-availability was satisfied in relation to certain parts of the report. the

court held that the issue of whether the complainant’s delay in her disclosure

of the alleged abuse to her boyfriend and family members and her reluctance to

report the matter to the police negatively impacted her credibility was not a

live point of contention at trial. counsel for the defence confirmed that the

defence had not sought to make any such argument in its closing submissions at

the trial below; nor did it now seek to do so on appeal. in the circumstances,

the court of appeal found that the prosecution could not reasonably be expected

to have considered at trial that it would be necessary to adduce an expert report

dealing with how rape victims tend to approach the disclosure of sexual abuse

and in particular to address the forensic significance of delays in making such

disclosure. consequently, the parts of the expert report which concerned

victims’ disclosure of sexual abuse, including the reasons for delays in the

disclosure of child sexual abuse, satisfied the condition of non-availability.

the court of appeal further held that the requirements of relevance and

reliability were met in relation to these sections of the expert report.
([94]–[96])

12                  finally, the

court of appeal rejected the prosecution’s submission that a retrial would be

necessary if these parts of the expert report were adduced on appeal because

the judge’s findings on delay “infected” his assessment of all the other

factual claims made by the complainant. the court of appeal found that the

judge’s reasoning did not show that his findings on the delayed disclosure

marred his view of the complainant’s credibility to such an extent that it

compromised his assessment of all the factual allegations that the complainant

made. further, the defence had confirmed that it would not require any

cross-examination in respect of the expert report as long as the parts which

were admitted did not extend to the expert’s assessment of the position in

relation to the complainant in this case. ([101]–[102])



13                  for these

reasons, the court of appeal dismissed the prosecution’s application to admit

matin’s evidence and its related affidavits, but allowed in part the

application to admit ms ng’s expert report. ([104])


this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.