supreme court of singapore
1 august 2019
case summary
ueq v uep [2019] sgca 45

civil appeal no. 149 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by justice steven chong):
outcome: coa allows appeal in

part and holds that a gift to a spouse can only be considered a matrimonial

asset if it is substantively improved by the other spouse after the gifting. 
 
1          this

was an appeal against the high court’s decision on the division of matrimonial

assets between the parties. among the grounds of appeal, the appellant, who was

the husband, argued that the 20,000 shares and the 60,000 shares he had

received from his father as gifts were not matrimonial assets. the court of

appeal dismissed all the grounds of his appeal, except on one ground: the court

held that the 60,000 shares that were gifted to him were not matrimonial

assets. 
 
the material facts
2         the

parties were married in may 2003 and their marriage lasted 12.5 years. the wife

filed for divorce in november 2015. the husband worked in his family business,

a supermarket chain (“the supermarket”), at the time of the proceedings in the

family court. he holds 8% of the shares in the supermarket, his father owns

85%, his mother owns 5% while his sister owns the balance 2%. the husband also

has interests in other businesses: [5].
3         the

wife previously worked as a senior bank officer before she resigned in february

2004, shortly after their marriage. whether she then worked for the supermarket

and/or the husband’s other businesses was a matter of dispute between the

parties. according to her, she worked until the birth of their third child in

november 2012. it was not disputed that she remained on the payroll of the

supermarket until november 2015. the husband’s case was that she did not

actually work for the supermarket at all and the monies that she received as

salary were given by his father to her as part of the arrangement he had in

place for all his daughters-in-law, and the monies were actually part of the

husband’s salary: [6].
4          it

was not disputed that the husband’s father gave him 20,000 shares in the

supermarket before the marriage in 1999 and 60,000 shares during the marriage

in november 2012: [7]. 
 
decision on appeal
5          the court of appeal found no reason to

disturb the findings in the courts below that the wife had worked in the

supermarket and played a fairly important role in the day-to-day administrative

running of the supermarket: [9].
6          for

the 20,000 shares that were gifted to the husband before the marriage, the

court of appeal agreed with the decision in the court below that they were

matrimonial assets, because they were substantively improved by the wife during

the marriage, through her work for the supermarket: [10].
7          as

for the 60,000 shares that were gifted to the husband at about the same time

when the wife stopped working for the supermarket, the court of appeal

overturned the decision of the court below and agreed with the husband that

they were not matrimonial assets. the court of appeal held that substantive

improvement by the other party to the asset before

it was gifted to the recipient spouse should not be taken into account for the

purposes of s 112(10) of the women’s charter (cap 353, 2009 rev ed): [12] to [18]. 
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.