supreme court of singapore
30 july 2019
case summary
chan lie sian v public prosecutor [2019]

sgca 44

criminal appeal no. 25 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
outcome: coa allows appeal against conviction

and sentencing on murder charge.
pertinent

and significant points of the judgment


appellant’s

    conviction under s 300(a) of the

    penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) (“the pc”) substituted with a conviction

    under s 300(c) of the pc as the

    totality of the circumstances showed that the appellant did not have a specific

    intention to kill the victim (at [70],

    [77], and [83]).


appellant

    sentenced to life imprisonment and not death as the manner in which the

    appellant acted did not evince a blatant disregard for human life (at [86] and [93]).


 
introduction
1          this

was an appeal against the conviction and sentencing of the appellant on a

charge of murder.
 
background to the appeal
2          on

14 january 2014, the appellant discovered that some of his money was missing.

his suspicions turned to the victim, who was working for him as a pimp. the

appellant called the victim and asked him to meet at the appellant’s lodging

house.
3          when

the victim arrived, he denied taking the money. the victim and appellant then

began to fight. at some point during the fight, the appellant took hold of a

metal dumbbell rod, with which he hit the victim several times on his head and

body. about 15 minutes after the fight had started, the victim was left

bleeding on the bed in one of the bedrooms (“bedroom 1”).
4          the

appellant then called another member of his staff, chua thiam hock (“chua”),

and asked him to come to the lodging house. 

when he arrived, chua was similarly accused of stealing the appellant’s

money and on denying it, he was attacked with the rod.  the appellant ordered chua to go into bedroom

1 and see what the consequences would be of stealing from him. in chua’s

presence, the appellant then again hit the victim with the rod, save that he

did not hit his head. each time he was hit, the victim would groan faintly.
5          the

appellant later received a call from aw teck huat (“aw”), a member of the

secret society of which both the appellant and the victim were members. the

appellant told aw that he had beaten up the victim for stealing his money.
6          at

about 2.30pm, gan soon chai (“gan”), reported for work at the lodging

house.  the appellant told gan that he

had beaten the victim for stealing his money, and showed gan the rod he had

used. gan called another of the appellant’s staff members, tan keok ling

(“tan”), and asked him to come to the lodging house.
7          when

tan arrived at the lodging house at about 3.40pm, the appellant showed tan the

rod he had used, told tan that he had beaten the victim for stealing his money,

and asked tan to look at the victim in bedroom 1.
8          the

appellant then instructed chua to fetch a pail of water to clean the blood off

the victim’s body.  chua, however, was

unable to do so because of his injuries. the appellant then splashed a pail of

water on the victim, accusing him of pretending to be dead.
9          when

tan admonished the appellant for hurting the victim so badly, the appellant

threatened to hit him again when he regained consciousness. tan called aw,

hoping that he might prevail upon the appellant not to do so. he also told the

appellant that an ambulance should be called but the appellant threatened to

beat up tan if he were to do so. the appellant further instructed gan to

dispose of the rod. 
10        at

about 5pm, koh tzer jiiun (“koh”), another member of the secret society,

arrived at the lodging house. he checked the victim and told aw that an

ambulance should be called. aw then called his friend tan teng huat (“t h tan”)

and asked him to bring the victim to the hospital.
11        the

appellant, however, refused to allow t h tan to bring the victim to the

hospital. the appellant told t h tan that he had beaten the victim for stealing

his money, and offered to let t h tan see him. t h tan declined and instead

called for an ambulance. when he learnt that an ambulance was on its way, the

appellant instructed chua and tan to carry the victim to the front porch. he

later told the police that he had found the victim by the roadside and had then

called for the ambulance and brought the victim to his front porch.
12        on

arrival at the hospital, the victim was found to be suffering from skull

fractures.  he passed away seven days

later. in the meantime, the appellant had surrendered himself to the police and

was charged for voluntarily causing grievous hurt with a dangerous weapon. when

the victim passed away, the charge was amended to one for murder.
13        

the appellant was convicted in the high court of one count of murder under s

300(a) of the pc and sentenced to

death under s 302(1) of the pc. he appealed against both the conviction and the

sentence.
 
decision on appeal 
14        the

court of appeal allowed the appellant’s appeal against conviction and sentence.

for the appellant to have been convicted under s 300(a) of the pc, he must have done the act by which death was caused

with the specific intention to cause death. the court found that the appellant

did not have a specific intention to kill the victim. with no witnesses around

and with the victim lying helpless on the bed, the appellant had every

opportunity to bring any such intention to kill to fruition. yet, he did not do

so even though the victim was clearly alive. further, if the appellant had

intended to kill the victim, it would have been entirely against his interest

for him to have openly admitted to what had transpired to chua, aw, gan, tan,

koh, and t h tan. although the appellant took some initial steps to conceal his

involvement in the victim’s injuries, those attempts were equally consistent

with his having an intention to severely injure rather than specifically to

kill the victim. finally, if the appellant had attacked the victim intending to

kill him, it would have made no sense for him to have later: (i) tried to

revive him; (ii) accused him of feigning death; or (iii) said that he would

attack him again when he regained consciousness (at [67] and [70]–[75]).
15        the

court then turned to consider whether the appellant should be convicted under s

300(c) of the pc. the ingredients of

murder under s 300(c) were that: (i)

death had been caused to a person by an act of the accused person; (ii) the act

resulting in bodily injury was done with the intention of causing that bodily

injury to the victim; and (iii) the bodily injury intended to be inflicted was

sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death (at [78]–[79]).
16        the

court was satisfied that all three ingredients under s 300(c) were made out beyond a reasonable doubt. first, it was no longer

disputed that the appellant caused the victim’s death. second, the appellant

intended to cause the relevant bodily injury to the victim. the court wholly

rejected any suggestion that the blows to the victim’s head were accidental and

that argument, in any case, was not pursued by the appellant on appeal.

finally, the victim’s skull fractures, caused by the appellant, were sufficient

in the ordinary course of nature to cause death (at [81]–[82]).
17        the

court was equally satisfied that the appellant could not avail himself of the

partial defence of sudden fight. the three elements of the partial defence of

sudden fight were: (i) a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a sudden

quarrel; (ii) an absence of premeditation; and (iii) an absence of undue

advantage or cruel or unusual acts. the appellant held an undue advantage over

the victim given that he was armed with a lethal weapon and further enjoyed a

considerable physical advantage by virtue of his physique. moreover, the

appellant attacked the victim relentlessly continuing even when the victim was

weakened and had been overpowered. the court therefore substituted the

appellant’s conviction under s 300(a)

of the pc with a conviction under s 300(c)

of the pc (at [80] and [83]).
18        the

court observed that s 302(2) of the pc afforded the courts a discretion to

sentence an accused person convicted under s 300(c) of the pc to either life imprisonment and caning, or death. the

death penalty was warranted where the actions of the offender outraged the

feelings of the community, and this would be the case where these actions

exhibited viciousness or a blatant disregard for human life (at [84]).
19        the

court was not satisfied that the manner in which the appellant acted evinced

that blatant disregard for human life. first, the court found that the

appellant was not aware at the time of the attack or in its immediate

aftermath, of the fatal nature of the victim’s injuries. indeed, the

appellant’s unchallenged testimony was that he did not know that the injuries

were so severe as to be likely to cause the victim’s death. his testimony was

also consistent with his conduct at the time. after the attack, the appellant:

(i) became upset at the victim for feigning death; and (ii) said that he would

attack the victim again when he regained consciousness. the appellant further

surrendered himself to the police precisely because he thought that the

victim’s injuries were not fatal, and expected that he would be and was in fact

initially charged with an offence under s 326 of the pc. given that the appellant

honestly believed that the victim’s injuries were not fatal, the appellant’s

acts of: (i) preventing the witnesses from obtaining medical attention for the

victim; and (ii) parading the victim’s body to show the consequences of

offending the appellant were therefore insufficient to demonstrate that the

appellant acted in blatant disregard for human life (at [86]–[88]).
20        second,

the court rejected the prosecution’s submission that the appellant wanted the

victim to suffer as much as possible. had the appellant harboured such a

desire, the principal attack would not have lasted only 15 minutes and the impacts

to the victim’s head would not have almost entirely been of only mild to

moderate force (at [89]).
21        finally,

although the evidence was that the victim would have been incapacitated by the

blow which caused the skull fractures, it was not possible to make a finding on

whether the incapacitating blow was delivered before the other blows to the

victim’s head, in which case the other blows would have been gratuitous, or

after, in which case the same could not be said (at [92]).
22        on

this basis, the court allowed the appeal and sentenced the appellant to life

imprisonment (at [94]).
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a

substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.