supreme court of singapore
30 july 2019
case summary
[akfel commodities turkey holding anonim

sirketi v townsend, adam
[2019] sgca 43

civil appeal no 116 of 2018
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by justice chao hick tin):
outcome: coa dismisses the defendant’s appeal

against the decision by the high court, on a summary judgment application of

the plaintiff, granting it only conditional leave to defend. 
1          this

was an appeal against the high court’s decision that granted the defendant conditional leave to defend. the

defendant argued that the leave to defend should be unconditional instead.

dismissing the appeal, the court of appeal upheld the decision to grant conditional leave to defend. in its decision,

the court of appeal discussed the circumstances under which conditional leave

to defend should appropriately be granted and the applicable principles. 
 
material facts
2          the

appellant, akfel commodities turkey holding anonim sirketi (“akfel”), is the

main holding company for a group of companies known as the akfel group, which

is in the business of trading gas and power in turkey. the akfel group was

owned by two turkish brothers, mr mehmet fatih baltaci and mr murad abdurrahman

baltaci (“mfb” and “mab” respectively and hereinafter collectively called “the

baltaci brothers”) at all material times before end of 2015. in december 2015, they transferred all

their shares in akfel to akfel commodities pte ltd (“akfel singapore”). the

respondent, mr adam townsend, who is the plaintiff in suit no 329 of 2017, is a

consultant who provides consultancy services to major energy companies around

the world. mr townsend provided consultancy services to the akfel group on a

non-exclusive basis since 2009, and in exchange, he received monthly retainer

fees, bonuses and was reimbursed for his expenses: [3] and [4].
3          mr

townsend’s case was that, on or about 14 march 2016, another oral agreement was

reached between mfb and him where on account of his enhanced involvement in the

management of the akfel group, his monthly retainer fee would be increased.
at that time, mfb was the

chairman, a director and the majority shareholder of akfel singapore, which

fully owned akfel. the oral agreement was later incorporated into a written

consultancy agreement which was executed between mr townsend and akfel. by a

deed of guarantee, akfel singapore guaranteed akfel’s performance of the

consultancy agreement. the consultancy agreement provided, inter alia, that in exchange for mr townsend’s services to the

akfel group, he was to paid €45,000 per month on a quarterly basis and was, as

before, to be reimbursed for his reasonable expenses. the consultancy agreement

was to commence on 1 august 2016 and run for five years unless terminated as

provided for by the terms of the agreement or by akfel giving at least 24

months’ written notice or by mr townsend giving at least 12 months’ notice. if

akfel terminated the consultancy agreement without cause, akfel was to pay mr

townsend liquidated damages equal to 24 months of his retainer (ie, €1,080,000): [5].
4          mr

townsend claimed that akfel had breached the consultancy agreement by

terminating it on 16 march 2017. akfel’s primary defence was that the

consultancy agreement was a sham

contract – it was intended to operate as a device through which mr townsend

would be compensated for agreeing to act as an intermediary of the baltaci

brothers in furtherance of a scheme whereby the baltaci brothers would attempt

to retain and exercise control over the affairs of akfel and the akfel group

whilst at the same time concealing their involvement in the said scheme.

further, akfel averred that the consultancy agreement was concluded in

furtherance of an illegal venture,

designed to avoid or circumvent the consequences under turkish law in respect

of the baltaci brothers’ suspected involvement with the gulenist terror

organisation/parallel state structure (“feto/pdy”) and/or the failed coup in

turkey that took place in july 2016: [6].


5          the

background for akfel’s contentions is the coup launched by feto/pdy against the

turkish government in july 2016, which failed. in response, the istanbul chief

public prosecutor’s office commenced investigations to identify persons who

financed feto/pdy in the coup attempt. the istanbul chief public prosecutor’s

office applied for and obtained an injunction from the istanbul courts on 18

august 2016 (“the august 2016 injunction”) for the confiscation of assets owned

by various persons, including those of the baltaci brothers. against this

backdrop of political turmoil in turkey in 2016 and 2017, various changes were

effected in akfel. starting from 28 march 2016, the baltaci brothers resigned

from the akfel board and mr townsend joined the board. from march 2016 to

august 2016, the baltaci brothers transferred most, if not all, of their shares

in akfel singapore to companies in which mr townsend was involved. on 1

december 2016, due to findings on akfel’s connection with the armed terrorist

organisation of feto/pdy and its financial support of the organisation, the

istanbul courts accepted the istanbul chief public prosecutor’s office’s

request for the savings deposit insurance fund (sdif) or tasarruf mevduati

sigorta fonu (“tmsf”), an entity controlled by the turkish state, to be

appointed as trustee for akfel (“the december 2016 order”): [7] to [9].
6          on

17 december 2016, mr townsend issued akfel an invoice for his retainer fees for

the preceding quarter which akfel failed to pay. on 16 march 2017, tmsf’s

lawyers sent mr townsend a termination letter, claiming that the consultancy

agreement was “collusive and legally invalid”: [9].
7          in

response, mr townsend commenced suit no 329 of 2017 against akfel in april

2017, claiming liquidated damages or alternatively damages for breach of the

notice period, his retainer fees for the months of september 2016 to march 2017

(less part payment), and reimbursements of reasonable expenses. mr townsend’s

application for summary judgment was granted by the assistant registrar at

first instance. on appeal to the high court, the judge granted akfel leave to

defend on condition that it furnished security of $2m within six weeks (“the

condition”). being dissatisfied with the condition imposed by the judge, akfel

appealed to this court against that part of the decision, seeking a revocation

of the condition: [11]. 
the court's ground of decision 
8          the

relevant provisions for summary judgment are o 14 rr 3 and 4 of the rules of

court, and the legal principles governing the grant of summary judgment are

well settled: the power to grant summary judgment is intended only to apply to

cases where there is no doubt that a plaintiff is entitled to judgment, and

where it is inexpedient to allow a defendant to defend for mere purposes of

delay. where there is an issue or question in dispute which ought to be tried

or there ought to be a trial for some other reason (o 14 r 3(1)), leave to

defend should be granted. leave to defend can be conditional or unconditional: [29] to [31].
9          the

court of appeal disagreed with the judge in holding that there were two

distinct approaches to addressing whether summary judgment should be entered –

a “one-step approach” and a “two-step approach”. under the “two-step approach”,

the judge said that the court must first consider whether leave to defend should

be granted; and where there was a triable issue or a reasonable probability of

a bona fide defence, then leave

should be granted. only then, and as the second step, consideration was given

as to whether leave should be conditional or unconditional. under the “one-step

approach”, the court had three options to choose from in relation to the

application for summary judgment – judgment, unconditional leave or conditional

leave. the court of appeal rejected the two-step approach and held that the

process is a single composite exercise, depending on the overall picture which

emerges to the court. if the judge is satisfied that the plaintiff has shown a prima facie case for judgment but is

also satisfied that the defendant has demonstrated a fair probability of a bona fide defence, unconditional leave

to defend should be granted. in determining whether such a demonstration has

been made by the defendant, factual assertions made by the plaintiff and not

disputed by the defendant may be taken into account by the court. but where

what the defendant has shown does not amount to a fair probability of a bona fide defence, but only that the

defence raised is not hopeless, it is warranted for the court to impose

conditional leave to defend: [14]

and [41].
10        a

consideration of summary judgment will invariably entail separate analysis of

the plaintiff’s case and the defendant’s case. through this evaluation, the

court will form a view as to which category the case falls under: (a) there is

no issue or question in dispute which ought to be tried or that there is no

other reason for a trial of that claim (judgment should thus be entered); or

(b) there is an issue or question in dispute which ought to be tried or there

ought for some other reason to be a trial of that claim, and this latter

category is further divided into (i) circumstances warranting conditional leave

and (ii) circumstances warranting unconditional leave. the analysis for a

summary judgment issue is not sequential, but is logically a composite

examination of both the claim and the defence as a whole: [42] and [43].
11        the

court of appeal held that the discretion given to the court to determine

whether to grant unconditional or conditional leave to defend is wide and each

case has to be decided on its own facts. the phrase “reasonable probability of

a bona fide defence” was adopted by

precedent cases to describe situations where unconditional leave to defend was

granted. for clarity of thought, the court of appeal reserved the grant of

conditional leave to cases where the defendant’s evidence has not yet reached the level of showing a

reasonable probability of a bona fide

defence, a fair case for defence, reasonable grounds for setting up a defence

or a fair probability of a bona fide

defence. as for the second limb in o 14 r 3(1), where there is “some other

reason” for a claim to go to trial, a court can similarly either grant

conditional or unconditional leave to defend. the court of appeal rejected

counsel’s submission that conditional leave to defend could only be granted

where the word “shadowy” was used to describe the defence. although the word

“shadowy” has often been used to describe a defence that warrants conditional

leave to defend, such a finding is not necessary in order to grant conditional

leave: [49] to [53]. 
12        

on the facts, although the judge found that akfel had shown “a reasonable

probability that it has a bona fide

defence” (a finding that should warrant unconditional leave to defend), he had understood

the phrase to encompass all situations where leave to defend should be granted

in what he termed as a two-step approach. he had explained to the parties that

he had used the phrase in that sense, and had clarified that he found the case

to fall “below the standard of a merely weak defence [and] squarely into the

realm of a defence which warranted the grant of conditional leave to defend”.

in the light of his clarifications, the court of appeal found that his use of

the phrase, “a reasonable probability that it has a bona fide defence”, to be immaterial to the correctness of his

decision in granting conditional leave: [54].
13        the

court of appeal found that the judge did not err in his exercise of discretion

in imposing the condition. the judge did not err in placing weight on the fact

that akfel did not adduce any evidence from its employees who had interacted

with mr townsend to substantiate its defence of sham and the inconsistency

between documents filed by akfel. the overarching character of akfel’s defence

was its lack of evidence and its case was built on mere suspicions. akfel’s

argument that mr townsend did not strictly follow the terms of the consultancy

agreement did not help its case because non-compliance did not indicate sham. its

reliance on mr townsend’s

decision not to claim for damages from akfel singapore under the deed of

guarantee did not advance akfel’s case either: [55] to [61].
14        the

court of appeal also dismissed akfel’s submission in the alternative that the

non-fulfilment of the condition should not lead to judgment for the full amount

claimed because part of the reimbursements was incurred before the commencement

of the consultancy agreement. the judge had given an overall assessment of the

evidence adduced and arguments made in deciding to order security of a

substantial sum. the court of appeal saw no error in his decision to assess the

claim in its entirety. further, it was not in dispute that under the previous

oral agreement mr townsend was also entitled to reimbursement of his expenses

incurred and was in fact so reimbursed. in his statement of claim, mr townsend

did not state that he was claiming only for expenses incurred under the

consultancy agreement: [66]. 
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.