supreme court of singapore
24 july 2019
case summary
singapore medical council

v lim lian arn [2019]

sghc 172

originating summons no 3 of 2019
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the high court (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
outcome: high court sets aside the conviction of dr lim lian arn on

the basis that the undisputed facts do not support the charge.
pertinent and significant points of the

judgment
·        

not

every departure by a medical practitioner from the acceptable standards of

conduct would necessarily amount to professional misconduct. instead, the

departure must either be intentional and deliberate, or amount to such serious

negligence that it objectively portrays an abuse of the privileges which

accompany registration as a medical practitioner.
introduction
1             

dr lim

lian arn (“dr lim”) pleaded guilty to one charge of professional

misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the

medical registration act (cap 174, 2014 rev ed) (“the mra”) for

failing to obtain informed consent from his patient before administering a steroid

injection to her left wrist. the disciplinary tribunal (“the dt”) convicted

dr lim of the charge and imposed a fine of $100,000 together with a number

of other commonly-made disciplinary orders. subsequently, the ministry of

health requested the singapore medical council (“the smc”) to review the

appropriateness of the sentence and to determine any subsequent steps that

should be taken. the smc then brought this appeal for a review of the dt’s

decision. 
background to the appeal
2             

the

patient consulted dr lim in october 2014 about some pain in her left wrist.

on dr lim’s advice, she underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan. after

reviewing the results of the scan with the patient, dr lim offered her two

treatment options: (a) bracing and oral medication; and (b) an

injection of 10mg of triamcinolone acetonide with 1% lignocaine in a total

volume of 2ml (“h&l injection”) coupled with bracing and oral medication. the

patient chose the h&l injection. she subsequently experienced swelling and

pain in the injected area about two hours after the h&l injection, and also

developed paper-thin skin with discolouration as well as loss of fat and muscle

tissues in the injected area.
3             

in the

disciplinary proceedings below, the smc alleged that dr lim had failed to

advise the patient of the possible risks and complications that could arise

from the h&l injection and had thus failed to obtain her informed consent

before administering the injection. as dr lim pleaded guilty and the dt

accepted his plea, the dt was left to consider the question of sentence. in this connection, the smc sought a five-month

suspension. dr lim, on the other hand, urged the dt to either impose the

maximum fine of $100,000 or the minimum suspension period of three months. the

dt eventually imposed a fine of $100,000 as well as a number of other

commonly-made disciplinary orders.
4             

on appeal, the smc sought a reduction of the sentence

to a fine of not more than $20,000, which position dr lim agreed with. at

the hearing, in response to questions posed by the court, counsel for the smc

maintained that dr lim’s conviction was sound. 
the court's decision
5             

having

considered the facts and the evidence, the court held that the charge was not

made out and, accordingly, set aside dr lim’s conviction (at [55]).
6             

the

court first elaborated on what constituted professional misconduct under the mra.

not every departure by a doctor from the acceptable standards of conduct would necessarily

amount to professional misconduct. instead, a threshold must be crossed. the

critical inquiry was whether the conduct would be regarded as falling so far

short of expectations as to warrant the imposition of sanctions. in broad

terms, it would be relevant to consider the nature and extent of the

misconduct, the gravity of the foreseeable consequences of the doctor’s failure

and the public interest in pursuing disciplinary action. this would depend on a

multitude of overlapping considerations including the importance of the rule or

standard that had been breached, the persistence of the breach and the

relevance of the alleged misconduct to the welfare of the patient or to the

harm caused to the doctor-patient relationship. in this regard, a determination

that the disciplinary threshold had been crossed was not an exercise in the

abstract. a court or tribunal would typically expect to be guided by the

available expert evidence (at [30]

and [38]). 
7             

the

court observed that there were serious inadequacies in the expert report tendered

in support of the charge in the present case. the report merely presented

conclusions without setting out the reasons for the conclusions. such an

opinion was valueless to the court. notably, the report did not address why dr lim was under a positive

duty to disclose to the patient the list of possible risks and complications

spelt out in the report, nor what the likelihood and potential severity of such

risks and complications were. these matters were relevant to both the question

of liability and that of sentence. (at [43]-[45]). 
8             

on

the issue of informed consent, the court reiterated the position that a doctor was

not under a duty to convey to the patient every conceivable risk. whether

information had to be disclosed depended on several factors: whether the

information was relevant and material to the patient, whether the information was

reasonably in the possession of the doctor and whether the doctor was justified

in withholding the information. ultimately, what had to be disclosed was

largely a matter of common sense. in this case, the information in question

pertained to how the patient should make her choice between the two treatment

options that she was presented with. if a patient consulted a medical practitioner

with a routine complaint that could be addressed by two or three relatively

uncomplicated and equally valid treatment options, the information to be

disclosed was that which the patient would need in order to be able to make a

decision from among those options. this would then require consideration of the

nature and likelihood of any adverse side effects or complications. in the

absence of any expert evidence on the gravity and likelihood of any adverse

side effects or complications of the h&l injection, there was simply no

evidentiary basis to form any view as to just what dr lim should have

disclosed to the patient, why he should have done so, or how serious his failure

to disclose was (at [48]–[50]).
9             

as

regards the decision to set aside dr lim’s conviction, the court stated

that it had serious doubts as to whether dr lim had indeed failed to

advise the patient of the risks and possible complications of the h&l

injection in the first place, even though dr lim could not specifically

recall whether he had discussed these matters with the patient and even though

such a discussion was not documented in his clinic notes. the only material

difference between the two treatment options presented to the patient lay in

whether the h&l injection would be administered. it was very doubtful that the

patient would have proceeded with the h&l injection without any discussion

at all as to its possible benefits and side effects. this was especially so

since the injection was a steroid injection and there was a clearly more

conservative alternative treatment that was available (at [56]–[57] and [59]). 
10          

more

crucially, on the undisputed facts as found by the dt, the circumstances of the

case did not meet the disciplinary threshold. the dt had found that there was

nothing to suggest that the patient would have taken a different course of

action had the risks and possible complications of the h&l injection been

conveyed to her. her autonomy to make an informed decision on her own treatment

was thus not substantially undermined. further, this was an isolated one-off

incident involving one patient, and was an honest omission on dr lim’s

part. dr lim had in fact offered an alternative option of conservative

treatment. he had not offered the h&l injection as the sole treatment, nor had

he actively recommended the injection to the patient. the h&l injection was

an appropriate and reasonable treatment for the patient in view of her symptoms

and the investigations done by dr lim. it was not a complicated or highly

invasive procedure, but rather, a minimally invasive procedure commonly

performed in a clinic. while the patient did suffer some side effects from the

injection, there was nothing to suggest that the complications which she experienced

were in any way permanent or debilitating. those complications were also not

caused by any act or omission on dr lim’s part, but were instead simply a

consequence of the injection. in the circumstances, the present case was one

involving a one-off failing committed in the course of a routine procedure with

no material harm to the patient that could fairly be said to have been caused

by dr lim (at [60]–[61]). accordingly, the disciplinary

threshold was not met and the charge was not made out. the court therefore set

aside dr lim’s conviction and all the orders made below (at [64]).
this summary is

provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not

intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold

font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers