supreme court of singapore
23 july 2019
case summary
anan group (singapore) pte ltd v vtb

bank (public joint stock company) [2019]

sgca 41

civil appeal no 174 of 2018 (summons no 33 of 2019)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered

by steven chong ja):
outcome: the court of appeal allowed an application to adduce fresh

evidence for an appeal against a winding-up order. 
background to the application
1          the

high court had granted the respondent’s petition to wind up the appellant on

the grounds of a statutory demand that remained unpaid. the appellant appealed

against this order and raised a dispute in relation to the quantification of the

debt in the statutory demand, and sought via this application to adduce fresh

evidence in support of its own quantification of the debt. 
facts
2          the

appellant had entered into an agreement with the respondent for the purchase

and repurchase of certain securities, the commercial effect of which was that

the respondent would loan the appellant some us$250m with the said securities

as collateral. when the value of those securities fell as a result of sanctions

imposed by the united states treasury’s office of foreign assets control

(“ofac”), the respondent exercised its contractual right to demand the

appellant to top up a cash margin as additional collateral, which the appellant

failed to do. the respondent then issued a notice of default of the purchase

and repurchase agreement, followed by a statutory demand for a quantum of debt

calculated with reference to the respondent’s valuation of the securities. when

the appellant failed to make payment pursuant to the statutory demand, the

respondent presented a winding-up petition against the appellant which was

granted by the high court. the appellant argued unsuccessfully before the high

court that the ofac sanctions frustrated the parties’ contract or constituted a

force majeure event.
3          on

appeal, the appellant argued that the respondent’s quantification of the debt

was wrong because its valuation of the securities was unreasonable. in support

of this argument, the appellant sought to adduce a valuation report prepared by

deloitte which purportedly showed that no debt was owing to the respondent at

all. the respondent objected to the introduction of the deloitte report on the

basis that it did not fulfil the requirements in ladd v marshall for fresh evidence to be introduced on appeal.
decision of the court of appeal
4          the rationale behind the ladd v marshall rule is to preserve the

interests of finality in litigation, and also to incentivise parties to abide

by the fundamental principles of fairness in their conduct of a trial or a

hearing on the merits. these are desirable principles but are not unassailable objectives

that would always be consistent with the ends of justice in every case: (at [23], [24], [26]).
5          where it is clear that an appeal is

against a judgment after a trial or a hearing having the full characteristics

of a trial, ladd v marshall should

generally be applied in its full rigour. on the other hand, where the hearing

was not upon the merits at all, then ladd

v marshall serves as a guideline which the court is entitled but not

obliged to refer to: (at [35]).
6          even after considering the nature of

the proceedings below, the court retains its overarching discretion to act as

the interests of justice require. the court can admit fresh evidence

notwithstanding the non-compliance of the ladd

v marshall conditions in exceptional cases where it would affront a sense

of justice to refuse leave to adduce fresh evidence. three broad categories of

cases illustrate this principle: first, where new evidence reveals fraud

perpetrated on the court below; second, where a party was prevented from

adducing fresh evidence during the hearing below in circumstances akin to

denial of natural justice; third, where the subject matter of the dispute was

such that the stakes were particularly high or where there was a greater public

interest involved, such as in child welfare or criminal proceedings. in such

cases, the court may relax the application of the ladd v marshall conditions in the interests of justice: (at [37], [38], [39], [41], [47], [50]).
7          thus, in dealing with an application

to adduce fresh evidence on appeal, the court should adopt a two-step analysis.

first, the court should consider the nature of the proceedings below and

evaluate the extent to which it bears the characteristics of a full trial.

second, the court should determine whether there are any other reasons for

which the ladd v marshall requirements

ought to be relaxed in the interest of justice, with reference to the three

categories set out above: (at [57], [58]).
8          in any case, the court is to conduct a

balancing exercise between the interests of finality and the right of an

applicant to put forth relevant and credible evidence, having regard to the

considerations of proportionality and prejudice: (at [59]).
9          in the present case, the winding-up

hearing was a hearing on the substantive merits but did not bear the

characteristics of a full trial, and the compressed timelines meant that it was

not unreasonable for the appellant to mount different arguments on appeal. the

deloitte report was potentially relevant to these argument of the

quantification of the debt. the considerations of proportionality were also

persuasive – winding up the appellant is a draconian outcome whereas no real prejudice

would be caused to the respondent by allowing the deloitte report to be adduced

as fresh evidence: (at [63]–[66]).
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.