supreme court of singapore
30 may 2019
case summary
bintai kindenko pte ltd v samsung

c&t corp and another    
[2019] sgca 39

civil appeal no 95 of 2018
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by justice of appeal tay yong kwang):
outcome: the coa dismisses appeal against

decision to discharge an ex parte

interim injunction which restrained a call on a banker’s guarantee.
facts
1          the

first respondent, samsung c&t corporation (“the first respondent”), was

appointed by hsbc institutional trust services (s) limited (“the employer”) as

the main contractor for a project to upgrade the suntec city convention centre

and its retail podium (“the project”). it appointed the appellant, bintai

kindenko pte ltd (“the appellant”), as the project’s mechanical and engineering

sub-contractor: [4] and [5].
2          in

the sub-contract between the appellant and the first respondent, cl 3 stated

that the form of the main contract was the singapore institute of architects

(“sia”) lump sum contract (9th edition) and the sub-contract between the

parties shall be sia conditions of sub-contract 4th edition, 2010, including

all particular conditions as set out in the main contract. both the particular

conditions of main contract and the particular conditions of sub-contract

included the same exclusionary clause that excluded the first respondent and

the appellant respectively from relying on the ground of unconscionability to

restrain any call or demand on the performance bond or any receipt of cash

proceeds under the performance bond. these were referred to in the grounds of

decision as the exclusion clauses: [8],

[13] and [14].
3          it

turned out that various phases of the sub-contract works were not completed on

time and disputes arose between the parties as to whether the appellant was

liable for these delays. between march 2014 and december 2015, the appellant sought

extensions of time to the contractual deadlines for the respective phases of

the sub-contract works but these requests were all rejected by the first

respondent. the first respondent also stated that it would hold the appellant

responsible for the delays allegedly caused by it, which included liability for

liquidated damages and claims for any additional costs incurred by the first

respondent. subsequently, the first respondent wrote to the second respondent,

the bank, to demand payment on the banker’s guarantee provided by the appellant:

[20]–[29].
4          the

appellant became aware of the first respondent’s call on the banker’s guarantee

on 28 august 2017 and it took out an ex

parte application for an interim injunction to restrain the first

respondent from calling on the banker’s guarantee and the bank from paying out

on the guarantee. the judge below granted the ex parte interim injunction. the first respondent applied for the

discharge of the injunction. after hearing both parties, the judge discharged

the interim injunction: [31]–[33].

the appellant appealed against the decision of the judge to discharge the interim

injunction.
decision on appeal
5          the

court will only intervene to prevent a beneficiary from calling on a

performance guarantee if it can be shown that the call was either fraudulent or

unconscionable: [1].
6          the

first respondent, as the party seeking to rely on the exclusion clauses, bore

the burden of showing that the appellant’s right to rely on the

unconscionability exception was contractually excluded. it had to show credible

evidence that the exclusion clause was incorporated into the sub-contract. the

judge below found that the particular conditions of sub-contract were

incorporated into the sub-contract by virtue of cl 3, and there was no reason

to disturb his conclusion. the court of appeal was not persuaded by the

appellant’s contention that the exclusion clauses could not have been

incorporated because the appellant was not given a copy of the particular

conditions of main contract and the particular conditions of sub-contract at

the time of contracting. it did not matter whether the appellant was actually

given a copy or whether it had any knowledge of what those terms were. it is a

well-established principle that in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation, a

party is bound by all the terms of a contract that it signs, even if that party

did not read or understand those terms: [49],

[53], [56], [58] and [59].
7          the

appellant argued that in the event that the exclusion clauses were incorporated

into the sub-contract, they should nevertheless be considered unenforceable

pursuant to the unfair contract terms act (cap 396, 1994 rev ed). this point

was not raised before the judge below and the appellant did not seek leave from

the court of appeal to raise this new point. the court agreed with the first

respondent that it would be prejudiced if the appellant were allowed to raise

this new point on appeal, because the first respondent did not have the

opportunity to adduce evidence relevant to the reasonableness of the exclusion

clauses at the time of contracting. in any case, the court held that it was not

inclined to hold that the exclusion clauses were inherently unreasonable and

unenforceable: [65]–[71]. 
8          the

judge below found that there was no strong prima

facie case of fraud on the part of the first respondent to justify the interim

injunction. the court of appeal found that there was no compelling reason to disagree.

however, there was some merit in the appellant’s arguments about the validity

of the first respondent’s claims against it although they were not sufficient

to establish a strong prima facie

case of fraud. there was no evidence of the employer making any claims against the

first respondent for delays, and the first respondent’s errors in computing

some of the periods of delay suggested that the first respondent had simply

made up its liquidated damages claims in haste: [73]–[77].
9          

a party seeking an ex parte

interlocutory injunction has a duty to make full and frank disclosure of all

material facts. the court of appeal found that the appellant failed to

discharge its duty to make full and frank disclosure during the ex parte hearing because it did not draw

the judge’s attention to the fact that there was an issue about whether the

unconscionability exception was excluded by contract. although the court has

the discretion to continue an interim injunction notwithstanding the lack of full

and frank disclosure, the court did not consider that this was an appropriate

case for the exercise of that discretion, because the exclusion clauses were

obviously highly material in the ex parte

application and would have affected significantly the judge’s decision to grant

an interim injunction: [79] [80] and [83].
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.