supreme court of singapore[3 may 2023]case summarychubb insurance singapore ltd v sizer metals pte ltd [2023] sghc(a) 17civil appeal no 37 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------outcome: the ad dismisses the appeal against the decision of the gdhc holding that the appellant is liable to indemnify the respondent under a marine cargo open policy for the loss of four shipments of tin concentrate during the insured voyage.  pertinent and significant points of the majority judgment•  in an “all risks” policy under the icc(a), the coverage is not against risks of a specified class or classes; “all risks” covers any fortuitous accident or casualty resulting in loss of or damage to the subject matter insured unless expressly excluded: at [56].•  once it is demonstrated by the insured that the losses were caused by some accident or casualty, it need not go further and prove the exact nature of the accident or casualty: at [57] and [58].•  where the losses could only have occurred at either one or the other period that was placed before the judge for determination, any subsequent finding on the probability of one of the two periods would logically lead to the opposite conclusion on the other. the judge did not err in applying a method of elimination which entailed eliminating the possible locations of the thefts to determine the true state of affairs: at [76]. in so doing, the judge did not reverse the burden of proof: at [64] to [65].  •  the inferences from the four undisputed facts and the documentation for the four shipments showed on a prima facie basis that it was more likely than not that the thefts occurred during the transit period. given that the appellant had not rebutted the prima facie evidence, nor discharged its evidential burden to show that the thefts had occurred prior to the commencement of the transit period (ie, at excellent mining’s premises) and the fact that it was not argued by the appellant that the thefts occurred after the transit period (ie, at msc’s premises in penang), it stands to reason that the thefts occurred during the transit period: at [135]. pertinent and significant points of the minority judgment•  the judge erred because he had approached the issue from the perspective as to which aspect of the process or journey was weakest in terms of security. however, this was not a case of weak security but rather one of complicity: at [180] and [181].background 1 the respondent, sizer metals pte ltd (“sizer”) is a company incorporated in singapore that carries on the business of trading base metals. sizer and the appellant, chubb insurance singapore limited (“chubb”) entered into a marine cargo open insurance policy (the “policy”). pursuant to the policy, chubb agreed to insure sizer’s purchases of tin concentrate against any loss, damage, or expense arising out of their overland conveyance from kigali, rwanda to dar es salaam, tanzania, and thereafter by sea carriage to penang, malaysia. the schedule to the policy incorporated standard institute cargo clauses (a) (1/1/1982) (“icc(a)”) terms, which covers all risks save for express exclusions. 2 sizer entered into two sale and purchase contracts with excellent mining co ltd (“excellent mining”), for the purchase of tin concentrate. the first six shipments under the first contract were shipped and received by the end receiver in penang without incident. however, the tin concentrate in the last shipment under the first contract and the three shipments under the second contract (collectively, the “four shipments”) were discovered upon arrival to have been replaced with iron oxide. 3 in the court below, a judge of the general division of the high court (the “judge”) held that chubb was liable to indemnify sizer for the losses since they were due to thefts that had occurred during the period of the insured voyage (the “transit period”). decision of the majority of the appellate division comprising belinda ang saw ean jca and aedit abdullah j (delivered by belinda ang saw ean jca): general observations on cll 1 and 8.1 of the icc(a) 4 in an “all risks” policy, the coverage is not against risks of a specified class or classes; “all risks” under the icc(a) covers any fortuitous accident or casualty resulting in loss of or damage to the subject matter insured unless expressly excluded under cl 1 of the icc(a). the plaintiff discharges his special onus when he has proved that the loss was caused by some accident or casualty and need not go further to prove the exact nature of the accident or casualty which, in fact, occasioned his loss: at [56] to [58]. 5 clause 8.1 of the icc(a) sets out the duration of the insurance cover, which in this case is delineated by the delivery terms of the sale and purchase contracts between sizer and excellent mining. as a matter of general principle, an insurer is liable if the fortuitous loss caused by an insured peril occurred during the period of cover: at [59].reversal of the burden of proof 6 the burden of proof lies with sizer to show that the fortuitous loss, ie, the thefts of the tin concentrate, occurred during the transit period. the legal burden remains with sizer throughout the trial. to discharge its legal and evidential burden at the first instance, sizer must produce evidence in the form of witness testimony or documents to prove that the risk under the policy had attached when the thefts/losses occurred. if sizer succeeds in demonstrating on a prima facie basis that the losses occurred during the transit period, the evidential burden then shifts to chubb who has the opportunity to produce evidence either rebutting sizer’s evidence or supporting chubb’s counter theory that the theft had occurred in excellent mining’s premises (ie, prior to the commencement of the transit period): at [61].7 the judge did not reverse the burden of proof in deciding that the resolution of the case involved an almost binary choice for his consideration. by virtue of cl 8.1 of the icc(a), the judge had to decide whether the thefts occurred prior to or after the risk had attached under the policy. as it was not chubb’s case in the proceedings below that the thefts had occurred after the insurance cover had ended, the judge only had to decide whether the thefts had occurred before or during the transit period. having rejected chubb’s counter theory that the thefts had occurred at excellent mining’s premises, it was not wrong of the judge to conclude that sizer had proved its case on the balance of probabilities that the thefts had occurred during the transit period based on the evidence it presented, and all things considered: at [63] to [65]. 8 the judge did not err in applying a method of elimination which entailed eliminating the possible location of the thefts to determine the true state of affairs. unlike the case of rhesa shipping company sa v edmunds (the popi m) [1985] 1 wlr 948, the present case is not about determining the proximate cause of the loss by an enumerated insured peril. the primary dispute between sizer and chubb is whether or not the thefts had occurred during the transit period. the fact that excellent mining’s premises was “eliminated” as the locus of the theft was not to say that the judge had been compelled to choose between two competing improbable locations: at [76]. 9 the judge did not err in failing to consider that the thefts could have happened in penang, after the end of the transit period, as it was never chubb’s pleaded case: at [78] to [83].whether sizer discharged its legal burden of proof in respect of its claim under the policy10 in order for sizer to prima facie discharge its legal burden, it has to established that: (a) tin concentrate (as the insured subject matter) was packed into the drums at excellent mining’s premises; (b) the losses suffered were as a result of a fortuitous casualty; and (c) the fortuitous casualty occurred after the risks insured under the policy had attached: at [86].11 it is an agreed fact that tin concentrate, the subject matter of the insurance, was loaded into the drums at excellent mining’ premises: at [87], [90], [94] and [95].12 it was agreed that a fortuitous casualty had occurred, ie, the losses suffered by sizer were attributable to thefts of the tin concentrate inn the drums, which involved its substitution with iron oxide: at [96].  13 there are several undisputed facts which cumulatively give rise to prima facie proof, whether arising directly or inferentially, that the tin concentrate was stolen during the transit period: (a) first, iron oxide instead of tin concentrate had been delivered to the end receiver in penang; (b) second, all the tin concentrate in the drums was substituted and replaced, suggesting that there was opportunity for tampering with the contents after the sealing of the drums and containers, and further the four shipments cleared customs without incident; (c) third, there was a casualty that occurred which caused the loss; and (d) fourth, the only difference between the successfully delivered first five shipments and the four subsequent stolen shipments is that for the latter shipments, iron oxide was received in penang, which points toward the thefts occurring during the transit period, especially given that both the successful and stolen shipments travelled overland on the same route from kigali to dar es salaam and cleared customs without incident, with only the overland transit of the last four shipments being unsuccessful because of theft: at [104] and [105].14 there are several documents which also give rise to prima facie proof that the tin concentrate was stolen during the transit period. first, chubb’s position is consistent with the contents of the rwanda revenue authority’s (the “rra”) documents which stated that after documentary and physical verification of the drums by customs, the seals and the drums were found intact at the time of customs clearance. second, the stuffing reports issued by bureau veritas subsequently also recorded that all the drums in the sixth, eighth, and ninth shipments were in good condition when they were transferred from the 40ft containers to the 20ft containers at the port in dar es salaam after the overland journey from the bonded warehouse. as for the seventh shipment, it was recorded that two out of the 30 drums shipped had been damaged by stevedores, although nothing turns on this: at [110] to [119]. whether chubb discharged its evidential burden to show that the thefts had occurred at excellent mining’s premises15 in the court below, chubb led evidence to support its counter theory that the thefts had occurred at excellent mining’s premises before the transit period and thus before the risk attached under the policy. however, it was unlikely that the thefts had occurred at excellent mining’s premises. chubb did not discharge its evidential burden of proof with the result that sizer’s evidence stood unrebutted: at [120]. 16 chubb did not adequately challenge the evidence led by sizer in the trial below, which had been accepted by the judge. this evidence was that the thefts could not have happened at excellent mining’s premises due to logistical difficulties, time and space constraints, the location, and the security measures present: at [125].17 chubb’s counter theory that the thefts had occurred at excellent mining’s premises in accordance with the modus operandi suggested by its expert witness, dr luigi petrone (“dr petrone”), does not cohere with common sense, given the magnitude of the task of substituting and replacing a large quantity of tin concentrate in drums with iron oxide: at [128].whether judge erred in concluding that the thefts occurred during the overland transit leg of the transit period 18 even if the judge erred in concluding that security was weakest during the inland transit and therefore the thefts were most likely to have had occurred there, this is not fatal: at [135].conclusion of the majority19 the majority was satisfied that the inferences from the four undisputed facts and the documentation for the sixth to ninth shipments which showed on a prima facie basis that it was more likely than not that the thefts occurred during the transit period. further, as chubb had not discharged its evidential burden to show that the thefts had occurred prior to the commencement of the transit period (ie, at excellent mining’s premises) and the fact that it was not argued by chubb that the thefts occurred after the transit period (ie, at msc’s premises in penang), it stands to reason that the thefts occurred during the transit period: at [135] and [139]. decision of the minority of the appellate division (delivered by woo bih li jad):20 the minority would have allowed the appeal: at [197].21 the minority agrees with the majority that the judge did not err when he applied a process of elimination and where he did not consider the possibility that the thefts of the tin concentrate might have occurred in penang: at [141]. 22 it was not the approach of the judge or sizer that there was prima facie proof that the tin concentrate was swapped with iron oxide during the transit period. in any event, a prima facie case has not been established: at [143] and [158].23 the first, third and fourth undisputed facts identified by the majority were not material to the question of whether the thefts occurred during the transit period: at [145], [146] and [151]. 24 the second undisputed fact was neither here nor there. there was also opportunity for the theft to have occurred before each shipment left the premises of excellent mining. that chubb accepted that the checks by customs at the rwanda-tanzania border are stringent is also neither here nor there. that any discrepancy between the container seal numbers and the numbers stated in the cargo documents would result in the cargo being seized by the relevant authorities is also not material. there was no suggestion that any of the temporary seals affixed on the doors of the 40ft containers at excellent mining’s premises were found to be tampered with when the containers reached the bonded warehouse: at [147] to [149]. 25 in relation to the rra letter, the fact that the container seals were not broken is not material. there was no evidence of any discrepancy at any time, whether before or after the journey to the bonded warehouse, between the numbers on the temporary or permanent container seals and those in any document. there was also no evidence of tampering of the precintia clips on the drums at any time before or after the journey to the bonded warehouse. in so far as the letter mentioned physical verification of the cargo it is unclear what this meant: at [154] to [156]. 26 in relation to the stuffing reports issued by bureau veritas, this suggests that the thefts did not occur during that overland journey and might have occurred even before the cargo reached the bonded warehouse. it appears that no tampering of the drums was noticed either when the cargo reached the bonded warehouse at the border or at the port. hence, the absence of noticeable tampering of the drums is neither here nor there: at [157]. 27 the judge’s finding that there were compound walls and fences surrounding excellent mining’s premises was not against the weight of the evidence: at [160]. 28 the judge’s finding that there were cctvs at excellent mining’s premises should be treated with caution. apart from the oral evidence of mr theodore sindikubwadbo, the director of excellent mining, there was no evidence that any cctv cameras covered the area in which the drums were stored or processed: at [166]. 29 there are significant doubts as to whether there were even security guards present at excellent mining’s premises at the time the tin concentrate was swapped out for iron oxide as there were no such records available: at [167], [168] and [170].30 the judge erred in placing significance on the presence of the mineral field officer (“mfo”) at excellent mining’s premises. the mfo was not called as a witness in the proceedings. the onus was on sizer to provide evidence that such daily checks by the mfo had taken place: at [173]. 31 the contents of the rwanda national public prosecution authority report were objectionable as hearsay evidence. the judge’s observation that “some caution” was warranted when relying on the report was not adequate. it was for sizer to show how extensive the nppa’s investigations were, which it did not: at [176] and [177]. 32 the judge erred because he had approached the issue from the perspective as to which aspect of the process or journey was weakest in terms of security. this was not a case of weak security but rather one of complicity. the thieves did not simply take the cargo but replaced it so as to avoid detection for as long a time as possible. they did their job well such that no tampering of the drums was noticed at any stage, ie, before they left and after they left the premises of excellent mining. this suggests that they had inside knowledge that there would be other shipments of tin concentrate to the same buyer, using the same purported route, and that by the time the first theft was discovered, it would have been too late for the other thefts to be prevented: at [180] to [182].33 while the analysis of the white paint samples on the drums did not necessarily show that the thefts had occurred at excellent mining’s premises, the judge missed the point made by chubb, which was that the evidence concerning the white alkyd paint used strongly suggested inside knowledge and therefore complicity. however, no weight is placed on this point since chubb did not raise this point in the appeal: at [183], [185] and [186]. 34 the evidence concerning the presence of three minerals, cassiterite, coltan and wolframite found mixed with the iron oxide in the drums upon receipt at penang was not conclusive. however, it was not entirely irrelevant as it suggests that the thefts might have occurred in excellent mining’s premises. that said, no weight is placed on this point since chubb did not appeal the judge’s findings on it: at [187]. 35 it was not necessary for chubb to plead complicity as a defence so long as it did dispute that the thefts had occurred during the transit period. complicity was a logical inference to be drawn based on the facts and this did not depend on dr petrone’s credibility: at [191] and [192].conclusion of the minority36 there are too many unknowns and sizer has not proved that the thefts had occurred during the transit period. if the judge had properly considered the question of complicity, the arguments from sizer about security would be less important. it would also mean that it was equally likely that the thefts had occurred before or after the cargo left excellent mining’s premises: at [196] and [197]. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.