supreme court of singapore1 december 2023case summarycvv and others v cwb [2023] sgca(i) 9-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice steven chong):outcome: the ca dismissed the appeal in ca/cas 6/2023 and upheld the sicc’s decision refusing to set aside an arbitral award for a breach of the rules of natural justice. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  while art 31(2) of the uncitral model law on international commercial arbitration places the arbitral tribunal under a general duty to give reasons, it is not settled in the case law whether a tribunal’s failure to give adequate reasons is itself a reason to set aside an award. further, it is also not entirely settled what the content of a tribunal’s duty to give reasons is. it is not appropriate to apply standards of reasoning applicable to judges in the context of arbitration proceedings, given that different considerations are at play in a court case as opposed to an arbitration. that said, it was not necessary for the court to pronounce on these issues, because the claimants’ case for setting aside the award was ultimately premised on a breach of the rules of natural justice, rather than the tribunal’s alleged failure to give reasons: at [32]–[35].background 1 the fourth appellant, cvq, is a fund management company incorporated in singapore. it is the fund manager of two singapore-incorporated funds, “fund 1” and “fund 2”.2 fund 1 and fund 2 each have various subsidiaries that are incorporated in ruritania. fund 2’s subsidiary is the seventh appellant, cvr (the “fund 2 subsidiary”), while the remaining appellants are subsidiaries of fund 1 (collectively, the “fund 1 subsidiaries”).3 the respondent, cwb, is incorporated in ruritania and is an advisory firm with a focus on real estate investments.4 in or around december 2015, cwb approached cvq with an opportunity to acquire a portfolio of real estate assets (the “fund 1 portfolio”). on 24 march 2016, cvq incorporated fund 1 to raise capital from investors to acquire the fund 1 portfolio. shortly thereafter, fund 1 acquired the fund 1 portfolio through the fund 1 subsidiaries.5 subsequently, on 5 september 2016, cvq and cwb entered into an advisory agreement (“aa1”), under which cvq engaged cwb as its asset advisor in relation to the fund 1 portfolio. in return, cvq was to pay cwb an advisory fee, which comprised 50% of the management fee and 50% of the performance fee that cvq would receive from fund 1 in its capacity as fund manager. the two components of cwb’s advisory fees are respectively referred to as the “management fee” and the “performance fee”.6 in february 2018, cwb approached cvq with another investment opportunity to acquire a real estate asset. cvq proceeded to acquire this real estate asset through fund 2. on 31 august 2018, cvq, cwb and the fund 2 subsidiary entered into another advisory agreement (“aa2”), under which cwb was engaged as the asset advisor for fund 2.  similar to the arrangement under aa1, cvq was to pay cwb an advisory fee comprising a management fee and a performance fee, meaning that cvq would pay cwb 50% of the management fee and 50% of the performance fee that it received from fund 2 in its capacity as fund manager.7 both aa1 and aa2 provided that the governing law of the respective agreements was singapore law, and that disputes were to be resolved by arbitration in singapore.8 by october 2018, there was growing distrust and tension between the parties. aa2 was subsequently terminated with effect from 20 june 2019, while aa1 was terminated with effect from 23 june 2019.9 on 12 march 2020, cvq, along with the fund 1 subsidiaries and the fund 2 subsidiary (collectively, the “claimants”), commenced arbitration proceedings with the singapore international arbitration centre against cwb for various alleged breaches of aa1 and aa2 (the “arbitration”). in response, cwb brought counterclaims seeking payment of outstanding advisory fees comprising (a) the management fee and performance fee under aa1; and (b) the management fee under aa2.10 on 20 june 2022, the arbitral tribunal (the “tribunal”) issued its final award (the “award”), dismissing all the claimants’ claims and allowing cwb’s counterclaims. the tribunal found that cwb had not breached its obligations under aa1 and aa2 and was entitled to payment of its outstanding advisory fees, in the following sums:descriptionamount payable to cwbmanagement fee under aa1 for 1 january 2019 to 23 june 2019 (being the effective date of termination for aa1) (the “pre-termination management fee”)us$313,734management fee under aa1 for 23 june 2019 to the end of the life of fund 1(the “post-termination management fee”)us$1,193,674performance fee under aa1us$1.01mmanagement fee under aa2 us$97,424.3211 on 20 july 2022, the claimants filed an application to set aside the award on the basis that the tribunal had breached the rules of natural justice. that application was transferred to the singapore international commercial court (“sicc”) as sic/oa 2/2022 (“sic 2”). separately, cwb obtained permission to enforce the award in singapore vide sic/oa 4/2022. on 16 november 2022, the claimants filed hc/sum 4149/2022 (“sum 4149”) to set aside the order granting permission.12 a judge of the sicc (the “judge”) dismissed sic 2 and sum 4149. the claimants subsequently filed ca/cas 6/2023 appealing against the judge’s decision.13 on appeal, the claimants submit that the tribunal breached the fair hearing rule by failing to apply its mind and/or to give reasons for its decision on essential issues in the award. the claimants contend that this manifested in four aspects of the tribunal’s decision: (a) its failure to consider whether the conditions for payment of the performance fee under aa1 had been satisfied; (b) its omission to make any finding on whether the life of fund 1 had come to an end, or alternatively, its use of inconsistent dates as the end of the life of fund 1; (c) its acceptance of the calculations of cwb’s head of finance (“mr b”) of the quantum of the performance fee, pre-termination management fee and the post-termination management fee; and (d) its failure to consider whether cwb’s claims were awarded as a debt or as an award for damages.14 further, the claimants contend that the arbitral procedure was not carried out in accordance with the parties’ agreement and that the award should be set aside on this basis. finally, they also submit that they had no reasonable notice that the tribunal would make a decision on the quantum of the performance fee, in breach of the fair hearing rule.decision of the court 15 while art 31(2) of the uncitral model law on international commercial arbitration places the arbitral tribunal under a general duty to give reasons, it is not settled in the case law whether a tribunal’s failure to give adequate reasons is itself a reason to set aside an award. further, it is also not entirely settled what the content of a tribunal’s duty to give reasons is. it is not appropriate to apply standards of reasoning applicable to judges in the context of arbitration proceedings, given that different considerations are at play in a court case as opposed to an arbitration. that said, it was not necessary for the court to pronounce on these issues, because the claimants’ case for setting aside the award was ultimately premised on a breach of the rules of natural justice, rather than the tribunal’s alleged failure to give reasons: at [32]–[35].16 the tribunal did apply its mind to whether the conditions for payment of the performance fee under aa1 had been satisfied. the tribunal accepted the claimants’ submission that they were only supposed to pay the performance fee at the end of the life of fund 1; however, the tribunal’s finding was that the life of fund 1 had ended. the tribunal also found that the performance fee was payable upon fund 1 achieving an 8% rate of return, and within 30 business days of cvq receiving the same from fund 1. because of the claimants’ repeated refusals to disclose documents pertaining to the correct computation of the performance fee, the tribunal assumed in cwb’s favour that these conditions were satisfied, such that the performance fee was payable to cwb: at [40]–[53].17 further, the tribunal applied its mind to when the life of fund 1 came to an end. the tribunal expressly found that the life of fund 1 ended on 2 september 2020. while the tribunal accepted mr b’s calculations, which used a different date as the end of life of fund 1, the tribunal’s decision was made on the basis that mr b’s calculations were the only calculations adduced before the tribunal and were therefore the best estimates of cwb’s claims. it did not show that the tribunal had failed to apply its mind: at [54]–[56].18 the tribunal did not breach the fair hearing rule in accepting mr b’s calculations of cwb’s claims. the objections raised by the claimants were irrelevant, not put to cwb’s witnesses, or did not detract from the fact that the claimants had not raised any alternative calculations of cwb’s claims. the mere fact that the tribunal did not refer to each and every one of the claimants’ objections therefore did not mean that it breached the fair hearing rule. even if the tribunal was mistaken in stating that the claimants had failed to challenge mr b’s calculations until the time of closing submissions, this was at most an error of fact which would not justify setting aside the award: at [57]–[65].19 the tribunal did not fail to consider whether cwb’s claims were awarded as a debt or an award for damages. the claimants did not seek to draw this distinction before the tribunal, and so it cannot be said that the tribunal failed to apply its mind to the claimants’ case: at [66]–[67].20 in support of their submission that the arbitral procedure was not carried out in accordance with the parties’ agreement, the claimants relied on the same arguments made in support of their contention that the tribunal breached the fair hearing rule. given the court’s finding that the tribunal did not breach the fair hearing rule, this ground was wholly unmeritorious: at [68].21 there was no merit to the claimants’ submission that they had no reasonable notice that the tribunal would decide on the quantum of the performance fee. following the filing of closing submissions, the tribunal invited the parties to file further submissions addressing any orders that cwb needed to quantify the performance fee. in response, the claimants did file a further set of submissions addressing the correct quantification of the performance fee. they therefore had reasonable notice that the tribunal would decide on the quantum of the performance fee, and had a reasonable opportunity to present their case: at [69]–[70].22 the tribunal therefore did not breach the rules of natural justice and there were no grounds for setting aside the award. the court accordingly dismissed the appeal: at [71].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.