supreme court of singapore
3 may 2019
case summary
hc/sum

4922/2018
brightex paints (s) pte ltd v tan ongg

seng (in his personal capacity and trading

as starlit(s) trading) and others [2019] sghc 116
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of judicial commissioner dedar

singh gill:
outcome: first

defendant found in breach of disclosure and delivery up orders made against

him, sentenced to 14 days’ imprisonment for contempt of court. 
 
background 
1          this

case arose out of an application by the plaintiff for an order of committal

against the first defendant for contempt of court. 
2          the

first defendant is a former employee of the plaintiff. he worked for the plaintiff

in two stints (from 1987 to 2002 and from 2012 to 2016). during his second

stint, the first defendant served as the plaintiff’s myanmar production

manager, working with the second and third defendants in producing and

distributing the plaintiff’s products in myanmar. in the course of his work,

the first defendant gained access to the plaintiff’s confidential and business

sensitive information. the first defendant resigned in september 2016. the

plaintiff subsequently discovered that he unlawfully accessed, downloaded and

copied its confidential information before disseminating the same to the second

and third defendants.            
3          on

6 july 2018, the plaintiff obtained judgment against the first defendant

pursuant to o 19 r 7 of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev ed). the

first defendant was required to deliver up and disclose all of the plaintiff’s

confidential information in his possession, power, custody or control within

seven days of the judgment. 
4          the

plaintiff subsequently commenced committal proceedings against the first

defendant on the basis that the first defendant had failed to comply with the

orders against him. whilst the first defendant had provided several cds containing

relevant documents and correspondence, these cds did not contain all of the

confidential information which had been taken. in response, the first defendant

asserted that he had delivered up all of the relevant materials in his possession.

he had deleted information that was no longer of use to him before he left the

plaintiff’s employ and was unable to deliver materials which he no longer

possessed. in respect of the disclosure order, the first defendant claimed that

he had not communicated any confidential information to third parties and there

was consequently nothing to disclose. 
 
the court’s decision
5          the

high court found that the first defendant had breached the delivery up and

disclosure orders. it was apparent that there were materials, which the first

defendant had conceded to accessing (at [32]), which were not handed over to

the plaintiff (at [36]). the first defendant did not take steps to remedy this

non-compliance (at [37]–[39]). having conducted a forensic examination of the

first defendant’s computer, the plaintiff was also aware that there had been

communications amongst the defendants which were subject to the disclosure

order (at [41]). this directly contradicted the first defendant’s assertions.

there was also evidence that the first defendant had not deleted all of the

plaintiff’s confidential materials before

he resigned (at [43]–[44]). he retained these materials in his possession

post-resignation and was required to disclose this to the plaintiff. he failed

to do so.  
6          in

respect of sentencing, the high court considered that a custodial sentence should

be imposed to register the court’s disapproval of the first defendant’s conduct

(at [53]). the court took guidance from the non-exhaustive list of sentencing

considerations set out by the court of appeal in mok kah hong v zheng zhuan yeo [2016] 3 slr 1. bearing these

considerations in mind, the first defendant had breached these orders

deliberately over a period of several months. in the circumstances, a sentence

of 14 days’ imprisonment was appropriate. 
 
this summary is

provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it

is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in

bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in

the court’s grounds of decision