supreme court of singapore
2 may 2019
case summary
boi v boj [2019]

sgca 30
civil appeal no 93 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal andrew phang boon leong):
outcome: coa holds that lottery winnings are matrimonial assets under the

women’s charter and that contributions to the matrimonial pool from lottery

winnings are to be attributed equally between divorcing parties since lottery

ticket purchased with intention of benefitting family. 
background

to the appeal 
1             

this

was an appeal by the wife (“the appellant”) against the judgment of the high

court judge (“the judge”) on the ancillary orders in divorce proceedings.

amongst others, the appellant appealed against the judge’s order that the matrimonial

assets valued at over $9m were to be divided in the proportion of 42% to the

appellant and 58% to the husband (“the respondent”), based on the parties’ respective

direct and indirect contributions.
material

facts
2             

in

2002, $1.25m was won through a singapore pools 4-d bet. both the appellant and

the respondent claimed credit for the lottery win. the prize money was

deposited into the appellant’s and respondent’s joint bank account and used

mainly to repay the mortgage loans for the matrimonial home.
3             

the

judge found that the winning lottery ticket was purchased by the respondent and

that the lottery winnings used to repay the mortgage loans were his contributions

towards the acquisition of the matrimonial home, not the appellant’s

contributions.
4             

on

appeal, the appellant submitted that the judge erred in finding that it was the

respondent and not the appellant who had won the lottery. she submitted that,

alternatively, given the fortuitous nature of a lottery winning, the contributions

towards the acquisition of the matrimonial home from the prize money should have

been attributed equally between the parties and should not have been attributed

entirely to the respondent. 
decision

of the court of appeal
5             

the

court of appeal held that a lottery winning received during the marriage is a

“matrimonial asset” pursuant to the definition of the same under s 112(10)

of the women’s charter (cap 353, 2009 rev ed) (“the act”). based on the plain

meaning of the terms, a lottery winning does not constitute a “gift” or an

“inheritance”. lottery winnings therefore do not fall within the exception for

a “gift” or an “inheritance” under s 112(10) of the act, and instead forms part

of the pool of matrimonial assets to be divided between the parties in divorce

proceedings. there is also support for such a view in both the case law and

legal literature (at [9]–[16]).
6             

in

relation to the issue of how contributions to the matrimonial pool from lottery

winnings should be attributed between the parties, the judge erred in basing

her decision only on who purchased (ie,

provided the funds for) the winning ticket.
7             

unlike

other sources of income, for instance,

cpf savings which are the fruits of one’s own labour, lottery ticket winnings

are realised as a matter of luck or stroke of good fortune. there is also a

radical disproportionality between the amount paid for a winning lottery ticket

and the amount of the winnings themselves. these special characteristics of

lottery winnings make the source of the funds for the purchase of the winning

ticket less legally significant (at [25]).
8             

because

of the special nature of lottery winnings, if the lottery ticket was purchased

for the family, with the intention that the family as a whole is to benefit

from any prize money, the party who bought the ticket would not be regarded as

being the sole contributor of the lottery winnings to the pool of matrimonial

assets. instead, the contribution from the prize money would be treated as the

equal joint contribution of both spouses. there is therefore a presumption that

both spouses contribute equally to any assets acquired from lottery winnings, unless

the spouse who purchased the winning lottery ticket can show that he or she

purchased that ticket with a view to only benefitting himself or herself, and

not with a view that the family as a whole should benefit (at [20], [29]).
9             

however,

much would depend on the precise facts and circumstances of the particular case.

if, for example, the spouses had an arrangement whereby resources from both

parties were pooled in order to purchase lottery tickets on a regular basis, then

it would clearly be the case, based on the evidence, that each party

contributed any lottery winnings equally to the pool of matrimonial assets. no

reliance on the presumption would be needed (at [26], [29]). 
10          

on

the facts of the present case, it was clear that the respondent did not

purchase the winning lottery ticket in 2002 with the intention of keeping the

winnings for himself since he had deposited the winnings into the parties’

joint account and utilised these winnings to pay down the mortgage (at [22], [34]).
11          

the

court of appeal therefore reversed the decision of the judge on the issue of

lottery winnings and held that the contributions from the 2002 lottery winnings

were attributable to the appellant and respondent equally. attributing the

contributions from the 2002 lottery winnings equally, and leaving the

contributions as found by the judge for the rest of the matrimonial assets

unchanged, the average overall ratio of the appellant’s contributions was held

to be 49.1%, instead of 42%. the appeal was therefore allowed in part (at [36], [39]).
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a

substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.