supreme court of singapore
30 april 2019
case summary
pathfinder strategic credit lp and

another v empire capital resources pte ltd
[2019] sgca 29

civil appeal no 99 and 100 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by sundaresh menon cj):
outcome: coa set aside leave granted under s

210(1) companies act for a company to convene a creditors’ meeting to consider

a proposed scheme of arrangement on the basis that the company had failed to

provide the minimal level of financial disclosure reasonably necessary to

satisfy the court that fair conduct of the meeting was possible. 
 
the facts
1          empire

capital resources pte ltd (“empire capital”) is an investment holding company

incorporated in singapore with a nominal share capital. it is a member of the

berau group of companies, which is one of the world’s largest coal producers (“the

berau group”). the berau group faced financial difficulties since a crash in

global coal prices in 2014 to 2015. in april 2017, empire capital filed the

present application under s 210 of the companies act (“ca”) seeking, amongst

other things, leave to convene a creditors’ meeting to consider and vote on a

proposed scheme of arrangement (“the proposed scheme”). this was the berau

group’s fourth set of restructuring proceedings in singapore. 
2          the

proposed scheme sought to compromise two sets of notes issued by berau capital

resources pte ltd (“bcr”) and pt berau coal energy tbk (“bce”) respectively on

behalf of the berau group. the first set issued in 2010 by bcr for an aggregate

sum of us$450m was due for maturity in july 2015 (“the 2015 notes”). the

second set issued in 2012 by bce for an aggregate sum of us$500m was due for

maturity in march 2017 (“the 2017 notes”). the security packages for the two

sets of notes largely overlapped. the most significant security interest was

the accounts governed by the cash and accounts management agreement (“cama”),

under which the berau group was obliged to pay and hold all revenue and

receipts from the sale of coal for the benefit of the holders of the 2015 and

the 2017 notes. save that bcr was not a guarantor of the 2017 notes, the 2015

and the 2017 notes were also guaranteed by the same entities in the berau group.

 
3          in

essence, the proposed scheme provided for the full and final release of all

liabilities under the 2015 and the 2017 notes. in consideration, pt berau coal (“berau

coal”), the main operating entity of the berau group, would issue new notes on

a dollar-for-dollar basis on certain terms (“the new notes”). the berau group

urged the creditors to vote in favour of the proposed scheme as the creditors

purportedly stood to recover less in the event of a liquidation than under the proposed

scheme. 
4          pathfinder

strategic credit lp and bc investment llc (collectively, “the minority

creditors”) opposed the leave application. out of the us$800m in aggregate

outstanding principal under the 2015 and the 2017 notes, they collectively held

notes with a face value of around us$112m.
5          the

high court judge (“the judge”) granted leave for empire capital to convene the

creditor’s meeting, but took the position that the 2015 and the 2017

noteholders should be grouped into two separate classes for the purpose of voting

on the proposed scheme. 
6          the

minority creditors appealed against the judge’s decision to grant leave for the

creditors’ meeting to proceed, and empire capital appealed against his decision

that the creditors should be separated into two classes. 
decision on appeal
7          in

recent years, schemes of arrangement have become an increasingly popular tool

for companies seeking to effect a debt restructuring. these reasons include the

fact that it permits the debtor to remain in control of the company, and further

permits a statutory majority of the company’s creditors to impose their views

even over the objections of a minority group of dissentients. for the same

reasons, safeguards to protect the interests of the minority creditors, and of

the creditors as a whole, are especially important (at [27]). 
8          generally,

a less onerous standard of disclosure is required of the applicant-company at

the stage where it seeks leave to convene a creditors’ meeting to vote on the proposed

scheme (“the leave stage”), than at the subsequent stage where court approval

is sought of a scheme passed by the requisite majority of creditors (“the

sanction stage”) (at [48]). however,

there remains a minimal standard of disclosure that a company must satisfy

before leave will be granted under s 210(1) of the ca (at [50]). 
9          at

the leave stage, the company bears a duty of unreserved disclosure to assist

the court in determining whether and how the creditors’ meeting is to be

conducted. this requires at least such disclosure as would enable the court to

determine the issues that it must properly consider at this stage, such as the

classification of creditors, the proposal’s realistic prospects of success, and

any allegation of abuse of process (at [50]).

in addition, the company must provide such financial disclosure in such manner

and to such extent as is reasonably necessary for the court to be satisfied

that fair conduct of the creditors’ meeting is possible (at [51]). 
10        the

court is not unappreciative of the concerns of and difficulties faced by

applicant-companies who seek refuge of the scheme regime in times of financial

turmoil. disclosure obligations that are oppressive may fetter genuine attempts

at restructuring, especially by smaller companies lacking resources and bargaining

power. thus, it is only in clear and obvious cases that the court should

intervene at the leave stage solely on the ground of inadequate disclosure. although

this logic cannot be taken to its extreme, the adequacy of disclosure is to

some extent a matter of commercial risk for the creditors themselves to weigh

against other commercial factors (at [57]).


11        on

the facts, empire capital had failed to provide the scheme creditors with the

minimal level of financial disclosure reasonably necessary to satisfy the court

that fair conduct of the creditors’ meeting was possible (at [71]). 
12        first,

there was a complete lack of updated financial information about the companies

whose debts are sought to be compromised under the proposed scheme. amongst

other things, no financial disclosure (whether audited or otherwise) had been

made in relation to any member of the berau group other than berau coal, even

though the proposed scheme sought to compromise the debts of 10 other obligors

within the berau group. further, even in relation to berau coal, the latest set

of audited accounts disclosed was for the year 2014, which was almost four

years prior to the hearing of the appeals (at [62]). 
13        second,

despite the minority creditors’ specific complaint from the outset that the

berau group had wrongfully diverted at least us$150m from the cama accounts

from around april 2016, there had been a woeful absence of information disclosed

by empire capital concerning these funds (at [64]). 
14        a

proposed scheme may compromise liabilities owed by third parties to the

applicant-company’s creditors if there is a sufficient nexus or connection

between the release of those liabilities and the relationship between the

company and the creditors (at [77]).

on this basis, the proposed scheme would appear to fall within the scope of s

210(1) of the ca, as the release of the debts owed by other members of the

berau group as co-guarantors to the noteholders was evidently closely related

to the creditor-debtor relationship between these noteholders and empire

capital – the debts arose out of the same issues and the discharge of one would

extinguish the right to pursue the other (at [80]). 
15        provisionally,

the court of appeal held that the 2015 and the 2017 noteholders could properly be

classed together for the purposes of considering and voting on the proposed

scheme (at [91]). the differences

between the relative positions of the noteholders under the proposed scheme and

in an insolvent liquidation did not appear material (at [90]). 
16        the

threshold for a finding of abuse of process is necessarily a high one,

particularly in the context of scheme applications where regard must be had to

the inherently dynamic nature of the restructuring process (at [94]). on the facts, there was

insufficient evidence for a finding that empire capital’s application amounted

to an abuse of process, as there had been genuine changes in the restructuring

plans put forward in the various applications, and the ad hoc creditors’ committee itself had also changed significantly

over time both in terms of its positions and its composition (at [95]). 
17        on account of the woefully inadequate

disclosure, the court of

appeal set aside the order below granting leave under s 210(1) of the ca

for empire capital to proceed with the creditors’ meeting to consider the

proposed scheme (at [96]).
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.