supreme court of singapore
30 april 2019
case summary
kok yin chong and others v lim hun joo

and others [2019] sgca 28
civil appeal no 230 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by justice tay yong kwang):
outcome: coa dismisses appeal against decision of the high court to approve

the collective sale of goodluck garden. 
 
1             

this

is an appeal against the decision of the high court to approve the respondents’

application for the collective sale of a residential development known as

goodluck garden (“the property”).
 
background

to the appeal
 
2             

the respondents were three members of the collective

sale committee (“csc”) appointed by the property’s subsidiary proprietors to act jointly as

their authorised representatives in connection with the collective sale application. in

the proceedings below, the respondents applied for an order for the collective

sale of the property, pursuant to s 84a(1) of the land titles (strata) act (cap

158, 2009 rev ed) (“ltsa”). the

appellants were the subsidiary proprietors who filed objections to the

collective sale.
 
3             

the

respondents’ application was allowed by a high court judge (“the judge”).

although the judge found the conduct of the csc and its agents wanting in

various respects, he concluded that the transaction was in good faith, taking

into account the sale price, which was $68m (or 12.55%) higher than the

valuation determined by an independent valuer.
 
4             

the appellants raised three issues on appeal. the

first was the “voting issue”: the appellants argued that the csc’s failure to

obtain the approvals for the apportionment of sale proceeds and of the terms

and conditions of the collective sale agreement (“csa”) at a general meeting

was in breach of paras 7(1)(b) and

7(1)(c) of the third schedule of the

ltsa. they submitted that compliance with the third schedule was a threshold

requirement for the application for a collective sale. in other words, so long

as those provisions are breached, the court would not have the jurisdiction to

hear an application for collective sale.
 
5             

 the second was the “conflict of interest issue”. they pointed out

that the first and third respondents each had relatives who owned other units

in the property, and submitted that these were conflicts of interest which were

not declared, in breach of para 2(1) of the third schedule of the ltsa. as a

result, the first and third respondents’ appointments to the csc were void, and

thus the respondents’ application to the judge below for the collective sale of

the property was ultra vires.
 
6             

the third was the “dc issue”. this related to the

development charge (“dc”) of the property, which is a tax payable by developers

to the relevant authorities when planning permission is granted to carry out a development

project which increases the value of the land. the csc had initially estimated

that the dc payable would be $63.2m, even though it turned out that no dc was

payable. the appellants argued that the failure of the csc to inform the

subsidiary proprietors promptly when it emerged that no dc was payable and the

csc’s failure to extend the closing date of the tender by at least a week to

allow potential bidders to respond to the new information (ie, that no dc was payable) was evidence of lack of good faith.
 
7             

in addition, the respondents disagreed with the judge

on the issue of burden of proof in relation to establishing the presence or absence

of good faith. they submitted that the burden was on the appellants to prove

that the transaction was not in good faith and not on the respondents to prove

that the transaction was in good faith.
 
the court’s decision 
 
8             

on

the “conflict of interest issue”, the court agreed with the judge that the

words “if any” in para 2(1) of the third schedule meant that mere ownership of

other units in the property by relatives would not necessarily give

rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest and that whether a conflict

arises would depend on the facts of each case. thus, the appellants had to show

how the associates’ ownership of other lots in the property gave rise to an

actual or potential conflict of interest (at [39]). the

appellants failed to do so. there was nothing in the evidence to suggest that the

first and third respondents’ relatives owned lots in the property otherwise

than as residents (at [40]). 
 
9             

on the “voting issue”, the court accepted that there

was a breach of paras 7(1)(b) and

7(1)(c) of the third schedule of the

ltsa. however, the court held that the high court had the power to validate and approve the application

even if there was non-compliance with the schedules (at [54]). in the present case, it was not

disputed that a simple majority of the subsidiary proprietors who attended the

extraordinary general meeting (“egm”) on 9 september 2017 signed the csa that

day, after the egm. it was also clear that the requisite number of subsidiary

proprietors had signed the csa. as a matter of common sense, the subsidiary

proprietors would not have voted differently if a formal vote had been held at

the egm. therefore, the breach of paras 7(1)(b) and 7(1)(c) of the

third schedule was technical in nature and did not prejudice the subsidiary

proprietors on the evidence before the court (at [60]). thus, the court approved

the application despite the failure to put the

apportionment of sale proceeds and the terms and conditions of the csa to a

formal vote (at [62]).
 
10          

on the issue of burden of proof in the good faith

analysis, the court held that it was for the appellants to point out by credible

evidence that the transaction was not in good faith (at [71]). as for the “dc issue”, which the court considered under the

broader question of whether the transaction was in good faith, the court agreed

with the judge that there was a clear relationship between the dc with the

reserve price as well as the bid price of the property (at [78]). the court also agreed that the dc

should have been verified before the launch of the property for sale (at [79]), that the csc should have informed

and consulted the subsidiary proprietors promptly when it discovered that no dc

was payable (at [81]), and that the

csc should have extended the closing date of the tender by at least one week

(at [82]).
 
11          

as

for the pivotal question of whether those missteps were evidence of lack of

good faith, the court first noted that the judge did not find that the csc and

its agents were dishonest or actuated by improper motives (at [83]). in the court’s judgment, a finding

of want of probity will be present in the vast majority of cases where

want of good faith is found (at [85]).

on the facts of this case, the court was of the view that the missteps were the

result of eagerness (or perhaps anxiety) on the part of the csc and its agents to

conclude the sale, especially after receiving a bid which was much higher than

what was initially expected. there was insufficient material to establish that

the transaction was not in good faith (at [87]).

the court also found that in all likelihood, no higher bid would have been received

even if the csc had acted conscientiously (at [89]). the court therefore dismissed the appeal.
 
12          

the

court also expressed its views on privately-agreed court timelines. the court

noted that the appeal proceeded on an expedited basis because the vendors

agreed with the purchaser that the sale and purchase agreement would be treated

as rescinded unless this court delivered its decision by 25 march 2019, four

months after the judge delivered his decision. the court pointed out that this

deadline was unrealistic and did not appear to take into consideration the

rules regulating appeals from the high court to the court of appeal (at [100]–[103]). the court highlighted that even if all the requisite

documents for the appeal can be filed quickly, an early hearing date before the

court of appeal may not be available (at [103]).

further, even if an early hearing date is made available, the court of appeal

may not be able to arrive at its decision within a very compressed time span,

especially if the appeal involves many parties and complex issues (at [104]). accordingly, if a future

collective sale committee agrees to unrealistic timelines for court proceedings

which, if not met, could result in the rescission of the agreement for sale,

that collective sale committee and its advisors will have to bear the

consequences of that agreement (at [105]).
this summary is

provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it

is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in

bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in

the court’s grounds of decision