supreme court of singapore
23 april 2019
case summary
yip man hing kevin v

singapore medical council and another matter [2019] sghc 102
originating summonses nos 8 and 9 of 2018
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the court of three judges (delivered by judge of appeal andrew phang boon

leong):
outcome: c3j dismisses doctor’s appeal against conviction and sentence in

respect of his failure to ensure that adequate sick leave was given to a

patient; allows smc’s appeal against sentence, suspending doctor for eight

months. 
background
1             

the

appeals arise out of disciplinary proceedings in which the doctor, dr yip

man hing kevin (“dr yip”), was charged and convicted of professional

misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of

the medical registration act (cap 174, 2014 rev ed) (“mra”), and suspended

from practising for five months. originating summons no 8 of 2018 was dr yip’s

appeal against conviction and sentence. originating summons no 9 of 2018

was the singapore medical council’s (“smc”) appeal against the sentence

imposed.
the

material facts
2             

dr yip

was an orthopaedic surgeon practising at his own medical clinic located at the

gleneagles medical centre.
 
3             

on

7 july 2011, dr yip examined the patient, a chinese national who had

been working as a bricklayer at a construction site. the patient had fallen

from a scaffolding platform and was found to have suffered a fracture of his

right clavicle, two to four rib fractures, a 1cm head laceration and a wrist

contusion. dr yip operated on the patient’s right clavicle late on that

same day, and the procedure was completed in the early hours of 8 july

2011. following a period of rest, the patient was discharged on 8 july

2011 at around 10.10am. dr yip gave the patient sick leave for 7 to

8 july 2011 (the two days he had spent in the hospital), and certified the

patient fit for light duties from 9 to 11 july 2011 (ie, from the first post-operative day).
 
4             

the

patient returned for a follow-up review on 11 july 2011. dr yip

certified the patient fit for light duties from 12 to 18 july 2011, and

scheduled a further follow-up review on 18 july 2011. on 18 july

2011, the patient returned for the second follow-up review. dr yip

certified him fit for light duties from 19 to 25 july 2011, and a third

follow-up review was scheduled for 25 july 2011. however, on 22 july

2011, the patient went to the tan tock seng hospital emergency department,

complaining of persistent giddiness, nausea and pain on the right side of his

chest. the patient was hospitalised and discharged on 23 july 2011 with

hospitalisation leave from 22 to 28 july 2011.
 
5             

on

24 october 2011, the patient lodged a complaint with the smc against dr yip.

the essence of the complaint was that dr yip should not have given only

two days’ sick leave to the patient, which covered only the days of his

hospitalisation for surgery, and not his post-operative recovery. dr yip

was sent a notice of the complaint on 22 may 2012 and served a formal

notice of inquiry on 3 november 2015.
 
6             

a

total of three charges and three alternative charges were brought against dr yip

for professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the mra pertaining to each of the three separate

occasions on which dr yip examined the patient (ie, on 8, 11 and 18 july 2011, respectively). in essence, the

charges and alternative charges were that dr yip failed to ensure that the

patient was given adequate medical leave.
 
7             

the

disciplinary tribunal (“the tribunal”) convicted dr yip of the charges,

and suspended him from practice for five months. dr yip appealed against

his conviction and sentence, and the smc appealed against the sentence

imposed.
the court’s decision 
8             

the

court of three judges dismissed dr yip’s appeal against conviction and

sentence, and allowed the smc’s appeal, suspending dr yip for eight

months.
 
9             

the

court noted that the tribunal’s approach in describing the standard of conduct

applicable to dr yip in the form of two separate and distinct standards

was apt to confuse. this was because the first standard (which required that

post-operative sick leave be given regardless of the availability of light

duties) would have been implicitly qualified by the second standard (which

allowed that light duties may be

given so long as the doctor has ascertained that adequate conditions for rest

and rehabilitation were available were the patient to perform those particular

light duties). instead, the correct approach would have been to set out a

single applicable standard, requiring that the doctor examining a person in the

patient’s condition either issue the

patient sick leave, or certify him

fit for light duties, provided that he has ascertained that there are adequate

conditions for rest and rehabilitation. the court observed that it would be

preferable in future cases for tribunals to adopt this approach, but noted that

in the present case, the result would in substance be the same regardless of

the approach adopted. further, for present purposes, both parties had advanced their cases on appeal on the basis that two independent standards applied, and

the court therefore proceeded with the analysis of the issues as they were

advanced by the parties: at [10], [55] and [65].
 
10          

the

court was satisfied that there was no reason to disturb the tribunal’s findings

on the evidence that it was not the practice to certify a person in the

patient’s condition fit for light duties from the first post-operative day, and

that dr yip had intentionally and deliberately departed from this

practice.  the medical literature

referred to by dr yip in support of his contention that immediate return

to light duties was possible pertained to patients with either a clavicle fracture or

a rib fracture, and not patients with multiple

fractures of the clavicle and the ribs: at [57]

to [64], and [68].
 
11          

the

court also found no reason to disturb the tribunal’s findings on the evidence

that dr yip had not ascertained the availability of adequate conditions

for rest and rehabilitation before certifying the patient fit for light duties.

dr yip’s claim that he had discussed the availability of light duties with

the patient and obtained his agreement to undertake light duties was first

raised only after disciplinary proceedings were instituted against him. there

was no record of any such discussion or agreement in dr yip’s clinical

notes, nor was it mentioned in dr yip’s explanation in response to the complaint.

further, dr yip’s claim that he had prescribed light duties to facilitate

the patient’s rehabilitation as part of his patient management plan was

undermined by his admission that he did not know – and had not taken any steps

to find out in the course of the follow-up reviews – that the patient did not

in fact undertake any light duties at all: at [70] to [83].
 
12          

in

respect of the alternative charges, the court observed that dr yip’s

conduct also constituted such serious negligence that it objectively

constituted an abuse of the privileges of being registered as a medical

practitioner. this would have founded a conviction on the alternative charges,

even if the charges had not been made out: at [84].
 
13          

on

the sentence to be imposed, the court observed that the tribunal should have,

in the present case, stated explicitly what the individual sentence was for

each charge, as opposed to imposing a sentence in the aggregate in respect of all

three of the charges. the court further noted that the sentences should be made

to run consecutively as dr yip’s failure to issue an adequate duration of

sick leave on each of the three occasions that he saw the patient constituted a

separate and distinct default: at [90]

and [92].
 
14          

the

court further noted that the most aggravating factor was dr yip’s complete

disregard for the patient’s welfare and interest. dr yip failed to

consider the patient’s multiple serious injuries a significant enough to warrant

sick leave. most appallingly, he also failed to check as to whether the patient

had been coping with the light duties during the two follow-up reviews, despite

claiming that he had prescribed light duties as part of a post-operative

rehabilitation regime for the patient. in light of the above considerations,

the court held that each charge merited a period of suspension of four months,

to run consecutively, giving an aggregate sentence of twelve months’

suspension: at [93] to [98].
 
15          

finally,

the court considered it appropriate to reduce the aggregate period of

suspension by one-third, taking into account the prejudice suffered by dr yip

owing to the smc’s inordinate delay in the institution of proceedings

against him as well as the countervailing public interest in safeguarding the

health and safety of workers. as such, overall, an aggregate sentence of eight

months’ suspension was imposed: at [99]

to [107].
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a

substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.