supreme court of singapore
23 april 2019
case summary
public prosecutor v dinesh s/o

rajantheran [2019] sgca

27

criminal reference no 5 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered

by sundaresh menon cj):
outcome: the court of appeal answered two questions referred by the

prosecution regarding the interpretation of s 228(4) of the criminal procedure

code.
background to the application
1          this

was a criminal reference brought by the prosecution to refer two questions

concerning the interpretation of s 228(4) of the criminal procedure code (cap

68, 2012 rev ed) (“cpc”) to the court of appeal, specifically whether s 228(4)

applied to an accused person who, having pleaded guilty to an offence, then qualified

his plea in the course of his mitigation and thereby signalled that he no

longer wished to plead guilty. 
facts
2          the

respondent had pleaded guilty to 20 charges under s 22a(1)(a) of the employment of foreign manpower act (cap 91a, 2009 rev ed)

after accepting a plea offer from the prosecution on the second day of trial. after

having been convicted on his plea, the respondent then sought to retract his

plea on the basis that he disputed various material allegations against him,

which allegations formed the crux of the charges faced. the respondent argued

that pursuant to s 228(4) of the cpc, since his assertions materially affected

the legal conditions of the alleged offences, the court was obliged to reject

his guilty plea. these assertions were subsequently framed as part of a

mitigation plea. the district judge refused to reject the respondent’s guilty

plea, noting that the procedural safeguards relating to the taking of his plea had

been observed, and that the mitigation plea was an abuse of process and an

attempt to resile from his guilty plea. the respondent was thus sentenced

accordingly.
3          the

respondent thereafter filed a petition for criminal revision to the high court

on the basis that the district judge ought to have rejected his plea of guilt. the

respondent framed his argument before the high court on the basis that he

wished to include assertions in his mitigation submissions, the effect of which

would be to qualify his plea of guilt. the prosecution took the position that

since the respondent’s mitigation submissions were in essence an application

for the retraction of his guilty plea, s 228(4) of the cpc was inapplicable,

and the respondent would thus have to show valid and sufficient reasons for the

retraction of his plea. the high court judge disagreed with the prosecution and

set aside the respondent’s conviction, on the basis that s 228(4) cpc was

unambiguous and mandated a court to reject a plea of guilt where it has been

qualified in mitigation. in these circumstances, the prosecution then filed the

present criminal reference to refer the following questions of law: first, does

s 228(4) of the cpc apply to a case where an accused person seeks to retract

his plea of guilty at the mitigation stage of sentencing; second, must an

accused person seeking to retract his plea of guilty at the mitigation stage of

sentencing satisfy a court that he has valid and sufficient grounds for his

retraction before the court can reject his plea of guilty? the prosecution

argued that the first question should be answered in the negative and the

second question in the affirmative, whereas the respondent took the opposite

position. 
 
decision of the court of appeal
4          the literal words of s 228(4) leave

very little room for any exercise of judicial discretion. the provision is

invoked whenever a court is satisfied that any matter raised in the plea in

mitigation materially affects any legal condition required by law to constitute

the offence charged. this provides a narrow scope of discretion but does not

permit the introduction of requirements not otherwise found in the words of the

provision. the court can examine whether the point raised in mitigation has any

substance because not every ostensible defence raised in mitigation would

require the court to set aside the conviction, but the subjective intention of

the accused person or the court’s opinion as to his factual guilt are

irrelevant: (at [28]–[34]).
5          the correct philosophical approach is

to view the whole plead guilty procedure as a continuum that begins with the

taking of the accused person’s plea and culminates in the pronouncement of the

appropriate sentence. it is the continuing duty of the court to be vigilant and

to ensure that the accused person maintains the intention to plead guilty

throughout this process, and this duty does not change between the

pre-conviction stage and the sentencing stage of the proceedings. when the

mitigation and sentencing process is regarded as part and parcel of the plead

guilty procedure as a whole in such manner, it becomes clear that the literal

interpretation of s 228(4) of the cpc does not undermine existing case law

pertaining to the validity of guilty pleas, but rather crystallises a further

safeguard before the plea can be safely accepted by the court as the legal

basis for a conviction. this is consistent with existing case law that where a

mitigation plea qualifies the earlier plea of guilt by indicating the lack of mens rea or actus reus, the accused person would not be taken to have admitted

to the offence without qualification and the plea would be rejected by the

court: (at [35]–[40]).
6          the effect of the prosecution’s

interpretation of s 228(4) of the cpc would be to render it either otiose or

ineffectual. on the prosecution’s interpretation, whenever an accused person

raises a point in mitigation that qualifies his guilty plea, he would first

need to obtain permission to retract his earlier guilty plea. if such

permission was obtained, the matter would proceed to trial and s 228(4) would

no longer apply; if such permission was denied, then s 228(4) would not

have the effect of mandating the court to reject the guilty plea: (at [44]).
7          the precedents relied on by the

prosecution did not assist them as none of the cases involved a situation where

an accused person qualified his plea during

mitigation by asserting inconsistent facts, but where the court nonetheless

upheld the plea and conviction. the majority of cases cited fell into two

categories which did not concern s 228(4) at all. the only cases that concerned

s 228(4) were koh bak kiang v public

prosecutor [2016] 2 slr 574 (“koh bak

kiang”) and md rafiqul islam abdul

aziz v public prosecutor [2017] 3 slr 619 (“md rafiqul”) and the conviction in both cases were eventually set

aside: (at [46]–[47]).
8          in the first category of cases relied

on by the prosecution, the accused persons had been convicted and sentenced on

the basis of their guilty plea, before seeking to retract their plea at the post-sentence stage. in such cases, the

court would naturally take a dim view of the accused persons’ assertions, and will

only exercise its revisionary powers in cases of serious injustice: (at [48]–[51]). 
9          in the second category of cases, the accused

person at the post-conviction and pre-sentence stage had made allegations

attacking the integrity of the plead guilty procedure and sought on this basis

to retract his guilty plea. given the seriousness of any allegations that aim

to cast doubt on the legality and propriety of legal proceedings, the court

will take steps to ascertain the truth of the matter in such circumstances, and

the onus would be on the accused person to adduce sufficient evidence to prove

his assertions: (at [52]–[54]).
10        cases in the third category are true

cases of the guilty plea being qualified during mitigation, where an accused

person puts forth assertions in mitigation that qualify his guilty plea because

they are inconsistent with material elements of the offence. of the cases

cited, only koh bak kiang and md rafiqul fall into this category. in

these cases, s 228(4) of the cpc applies and the court ought to reject the plea

because it has been qualified in mitigation. this indeed was the position taken

by the high court in both these cases: (at [61]–[64]).


11        section 228(4) of the cpc thus

establishes a general rule that where an accused person asserts facts in

mitigation which undermine a legal condition constituting a material element of

the offence, the court is bound to set aside the earlier guilty plea. this

general rule is subject to the qualification that a court will not be compelled

to do so where it is satisfied that the accused person’s conduct amounts to an

abuse of process: (at [66]–[67]).
12        the questions referred are thus reformulated

and answered as follows. the first question is: does s 228(4) of the cpc apply

to a case where an accused person seeks to qualify his plea of guilt, at the

mitigation stage of sentencing, to such an extent that it amounts to a

retraction of his plea of guilt? the answer to this is: yes, it does, save

where the court is satisfied that the conduct of the accused person amounts to

an abuse of the process of the court. the second question is: must an accused

person seeking to qualify his plea of guilt in the manner aforesaid, at the

mitigation stage of sentencing, satisfy the court that he has valid and

sufficient grounds for doing so, before the court may reject his plea of guilt?

the answer to this is: no, because it is sufficient that the mitigation plea

materially affects a legal condition of the offence: (at [71]–[72]).
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.