supreme court of singapore
11 april 2019
case summary
public prosecutor v p

mageswaran and another appeal [2019] sgca 22
criminal appeals nos 36 and 37 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal steven chong):
outcome: coa dismissed the accused’s appeal against the high court’s

decision on conviction and sentence as well as the prosecution’s appeal against

the high court’s decision to impose a sentence of 18 years’ imprisonment for

the offence of culpable homicide. in relation to the high court’s decision to

convict, coa rejected the accused’s submission that he had only acted with the knowledge that his acts were likely to

cause death, and agreed with the high court that on the facts, the accused had

the intention of causing death. in

relation to the high court’s decision on sentence, although the coa disagreed

with the high court’s finding that the accused had suffered from executive

deficits at the time of the offence, it held that the sentence imposed was nonetheless

not manifestly inadequate.
introduction
1             

these

were appeals against the decision of the high court to convict and sentence the

accused to 18 years’ imprisonment for the offence of culpable homicide.
background

to the appeal
2             

the

victim was a family friend of the accused. on the day of the offence, the

accused had gone to the victim’s flat to borrow money. he asked the victim for

a loan to pay the deposit for his new home but the victim told him that she did

not have the money. while the victim was in the toilet, the accused searched the

rooms for valuables and eventually found a box of jewellery. he decided to

steal the box but the victim caught him red-handed and tried to stop him. he

pleaded with her to let him have the box but she refused. a scuffle ensued

during which the accused strangled and suffocated the victim to death.
3             

at the

trial, the accused’s only contention was that he had acted merely with the

knowledge that his acts were likely to cause death. a conviction

on this basis would have attracted a maximum imprisonment term of 10 years. the

prosecution sought to prove that the accused had acted with the intention of

causing death. a conviction on this basis would have attracted a maximum

punishment of life imprisonment, or an imprisonment term which may extend up to

20 years.
4             

the high court judge (“the judge”) agreed with the

prosecution and convicted the accused on the basis that he had acted with the

intention of causing death. the judge relied principally on the nature and

severity of the injuries caused to the victim, the significant amount of force

the accused applied to strangling the victim, which caused fractures to the bony

structures buried deep underneath layers of muscle in the neck, as well as the

extended period of time (approximately 10 minutes) that the accused had

suffocated the victim. the judge concluded that those facts demonstrated that

the accused had the intention of killing the victim.
5             

the judge sentenced the accused, who could not be

caned due to his age at the time of sentencing, to an 18-year imprisonment

term. amongst other considerations, the judge took into account the aggravating

circumstances surrounding the nature of the crime as well as the accused’s

antecedents. these were balanced against mitigating factors, such as a medical

report tendered by the accused claiming that the accused had laboured under

executive deficits at the time of offending, which had significantly limited

his ability to exercise self-control.
6             

the two issues in these appeals were whether the judge

was correct on the conviction and the sentence.
the court’s decision 
7             

on the question of the conviction, the court agreed

with the findings and decision of the judge below that the accused had acted

with the intention of causing the victim’s death (at [24]). the court

rejected the accused’s submission that he had only grabbed the victim’s jaw to

silence her, as this would not have explained the neck injuries found on the

victim (at [26]). the

court also accepted the victim’s account that he had noticed signs of life in the

victim after he stopped suffocating her and before he left the scene. but the

court disagreed with the accused’s submission that this meant that he had no

intention of killing the victim. in the court’s view, the question of the

accused’s intention must be examined at the time when he was strangling and

suffocating the victim. the nature and severity of the victim’s injuries as

well as the significant force applied by the accused on a vulnerable part of

the victim’s body for an extended period of time meant that the accused had the

intention of causing death, and had acted on that very intention in that

fateful 10 minutes or so (at [29]).

it was clear to the court that the accused wanted to ensure that the victim would

not live to identify him.
8             

having

upheld the conviction, the court considered whether the 18-year imprisonment

term imposed by the judge ought to be disturbed. the court noted that since the

prosecution was submitting for the maximum sentence of life imprisonment under

the relevant punishment provision, it bore the burden of demonstrating that the

present case was one of the worst type of cases of culpable homicide (at [31]). the court observed that it would

take an exceptional case, devoid of mitigating circumstances, for a sentencing

court to be satisfied that a case was one of the worst type of cases of

culpable homicide (at [49]). the

present case, although deplorable, was not the worst of its type. the accused

had not gone to the victim’s flat with the intention or plan of robbing and

killing her. the case was an unfortunate instance of a theft gone wrong as a

result of a wretched confluence of circumstances (at [50]).
9             

the

court found, contrary to the judge’s finding, that the medical report claiming

that the accused had suffered from executive deficits at the time of the

offence could not properly be relied upon (at [52]). that said, while the court observed that a sentence of 20

years might have been more appropriate, it took the view that the 18-year

imprisonment term was not manifestly inadequate so as to warrant appellate

intervention (at [57]).

it therefore upheld the judge’s decision on sentence as well.
this summary is

provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it

is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in

bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in

the court’s grounds of decision.