supreme court of singapore
10 april 2019
case

summary
ahmad

kasim bin adam (suing as an administrator of the estate of adam bin haji anwar

and in his own personal capacity) v moona esmail tamby merican s/o mohamed

ganse and others [2019] sgca 23     
civil

appeal no 4 of 2017
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered

by judith prakash ja):
court of appeal grants

declaration that deceased had acquired title to land by adverse possession,

prior to state acquisition; but holds that there is no legal basis under

statute to award compensation.
background


the appeal concerned the

    compulsory acquisition of a piece of land in bedok (“the land”). until 2009,

    most of the land was used as a cemetery. there was also a house on the land

    (“the house”), occupied by members of the appellant’s family until 2016. the land

    was gazetted for compulsory acquisition by the government in november 1987, and

    title to it vested in the state about ten months later. at the time of the

    acquisition, the most recent traceable title to the land showed that it

    belonged to the first respondent, who had bought the land in 1888 and mortgaged

    it to the second respondent. in 1988, the collector of land revenue (“the

    collector”) awarded a sum of $18,800 (“the award”) as compensation for the

    acquisition to the first and second respondents (“the paper owners”) under s 10

    of the land acquisition act (cap 152, 1985 rev ed) which was in force at the

    time of the acquisition (“the 1987 laa”). no one attended the hearing before

    the collector. as neither of the paper owners collected the award, the collector

    paid the sum into court: at [1], [2] and [9].


the appellant, ahmad kasim bin

    adam (“mr ahmad”), brought proceedings in his personal capacity and as

    administrator of the estate of his late father, adam bin haji anwar (“mr

    adam”). he claimed that from the 1950s up till recently, his family had lived

    in the house and occupied the land as caretakers of the cemetery. they

    continued to live on the land even after 1988 without knowing that the land had

    been acquired by the state. mr ahmad sought declarations that he or mr adam had

    acquired title to the land by adverse possession, that the award made by the

    collector be set aside and a re-hearing for the assessment of compensation be

    ordered because the award was made without notice to him or mr adam. the third

    and fourth respondents were the singapore land authority (“the sla”) and the

    attorney-general. they contested mr ahmad’s claim to title by adverse

    possession and his attempt to have the award set aside: at [3] and [5].


according to mr ahmad, his late

    grandfather, haji anwar, began residing on the land sometime in the early

    1950s. he cleared the vegetation on the land so that it was fit for use as a

    muslim cemetery. he was then entrusted with the care and maintenance of the

    cemetery, and in return, he was given permission by the headman of the village

    then to build a simple house for his family on the land. haji anwar built the

    house, and mr ahmad’s family resided there undisturbed until 2009. mr ahmad’s

    family continued to pay property tax, utility bills and television licence fees

    in connection with the house until 2013. sometime in 2009, mr ahmad noticed

    that the graves on the land were being exhumed. this prompted him to make

    inquiries, which led him to discover that the land had been acquired in 1988. eventually,

    the sla wrote to mr ahmad to inform him that he was not entitled to remain in

    occupation of the land or the house. after some negotiations, mr ahmad

    redelivered vacant possession of the house to the sla on 30 june 2016: [6], [10], [13] and [18].


at the high court, the judicial

    commissioner dismissed mr ahmad’s application, finding that mr ahmad failed to

    show that he or mr adam had acquired title to the land by adverse possession.

    further, even if mr ahmad could establish adverse possession, there was no

    basis for setting aside the award. the judicial commissioner rejected the

    contention that the collector had failed to comply with the procedural

    requirements under the 1987 laa. section 53 of the 1987 laa also provided that

    no suit shall be brought to set aside any award made thereunder: [23] and [24].
decision on appeal


the court of appeal found that

    mr ahmad had succeeded in showing that mr adam had acquired part of the land by

    adverse possession. the court of appeal held as follows:


mr ahmad could not maintain a

        claim to the entire land as it was freely accessible by members of the public

        and not surrounded by any form of enclosure, and there was no evidence that

        haji anwar, mr adam or mr ahmad controlled access to the cemetery in any way or

        that they did so as an assertion of their exclusive possession of the same. the

        affected area of the land was thus limited to the area occupied by mr ahmad’s

        family as their residence. that was an area of 405.5m2, which

        comprised the house, open areas around the house and the additional area

        required to have access to the house: [41]–[45].


there was ample evidence that

        mr adam and his family occupied the house from as early as 1955 until at least

        1967. that satisfied the requirement for a continuous 12-year period of

        occupation: [47] and [51].


the occupation of the house by

        mr ahmad’s family was adverse to the interests of the true owner, and not

        permissive in nature. on mr ahmad’s account, it was the village headman who

        granted haji anwar permission to build a house on the land. the true owners of

        the land were the paper owners, and they had not granted such permission. the

        court of appeal also rejected the submission that the family possessed the

        house on behalf of the village headman only. the village headman had never

        asserted any right to the house against mr adam, and nothing in the grant of

        permission indicated that mr adam’s family had anything less than exclusive

        possession over the house: [53]–[57], [58] and [61]–[66]. 


mr adam and his family had

        demonstrated an intention to exclude all others from the house as far as was

        reasonably practicable. although the family believed that the land was waqaf land, their belief was erroneous

        because there was no evidence that the true owners of the land had ever

        dedicated it as waqaf land. further,

        what was required was not an intention to own or to acquire ownership of the

        land, but an intention to possess it. the family’s belief that the land was waqaf land did not preclude an intention

        to exclusively possess the portion of the land given to them as a benefit in

        kind for their caretaking services: [67]–[68].




the court of appeal thus

    granted declarations that mr adam had adversely acquired title to the house

    (occupying an area of 405.5m2) in 1967 by virtue of his adverse

    possession and that after his demise, such title passed to mr ahmad in his

    capacity as the personal representative of mr adam’s estate; and that all

    rights and title to the house held by the paper owners were extinguished in

    1967: at [69].


the question whether there was

    a breach of natural justice in the acquisition process turned upon whether notice

    may be deemed to have been served on mr adam by virtue of the posting of the

    notice on the land and whether the 1987 laa required notice to be affixed to

    the house. however, it was not necessary to resolve this issue because even if

    mr ahmad were to succeed in proving a breach of natural justice, he would have

    no remedy before the court of appeal: [76].

    


there was no legal basis for

    the court to make a fresh award of monetary compensation to mr adam’s estate.

    first, it was not one of the reliefs prayed for in the originating summons.

    second, and more fundamentally, the 1987 laa did not give the court

    jurisdiction to issue a compensation award at first instance. third,

    compensation was not a suitable form of relief for a lack of notice or a breach

    of natural justice in the making of the award: [77]–[80].


there was also no legal basis

    for the court to set aside the award by declaratory relief. section 53 of the

    1987 laa imposed an absolute bar on the issue of any court order declaring that

    the award was invalid and should be set aside as null and void as had been

    prayed for in the originating summons. the appropriate procedure for

    challenging the exercise of the collector’s powers was by way of the process of

    judicial review. the appropriate remedy for the alleged breaches, if

    established, would be to quash the award and mandate that the collector conduct

    a fresh inquiry. the court of appeal was thus unable to grant mr ahmad a

    declaration that the award is null and void and should be set aside, or to order

    that the collector carry out a fresh inquiry: [81]–[83] and [91].  


this summary is

provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not

intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold

font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the

court’s judgment