supreme court of singapore
10 april

2019
case summary
wong souk yee v attorney-general [2019] sgca 25 

civil appeal no 73 of 2018
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
outcome: coa finds that there is no duty to call a by-election when a

single vacancy arises in a grc, but holds that the appellant need not pay costs

to the respondent.
pertinent and significant points of the

judgment

   when

    amending the constitution to implement the grc scheme, parliament never intended

    that a single vacancy in a grc would trigger an obligation on the government to

    call a by-election. instead, a by-election would only have to be called if all

    the members representing that grc were to vacate their seats (at [53]). 



   the

    proper interpretation of art 49(1) of the constitution is that the words“seat of a member” refer only to the seat of an smc member. there is therefore no

    requirement pursuant to art 49(1) for a by-election to be called in

    marsiling-yew tee grc (at [73]).



      where

    a serious question of constitutional law is raised, the court may in its

    discretion depart from the usual rule that costs follow the event (at [94]).


 
background

to the appeal
1             

the

appellant (“the appellant”) is a resident of marsiling-yew tee group representation

constituency (“myt grc”) and a member of the singapore democratic party

(“sdp”). in the september 2015 general election (“the 2015 general election”), she

contested myt grc under the sdp’s banner along with three other

individuals. a team from the people’s action party (“pap”) eventually won the

election for myt grc. mdm halimah yacob (“mdm halimah”) was the

only minority community candidate of that pap team. subsequently, mdm halimah

resigned her seat as a member of parliament (“member”) for myt grc to

stand for the 2017 presidential election. no by-election was called, and myt

grc continues to be represented by the remaining members of the pap team which

won that constituency in the 2015 general election.
 
the

proceedings below
2             

the

appellant filed an application in the high court seeking leave to apply for:
 
(a)         

a

mandatory order that the three remaining members of myt grc vacate their

seats, and that thereafter, a by-election be held for myt grc;
 
(b)          

a

declaratory order that s 24(2a) of the parliamentary elections act (cap 218,

2011 rev ed) (“the pea”) must be interpreted as requiring all the

remaining members of a group representation constituency (“grc”) to vacate

their seats when a member of the grc vacates his or her seat, or in the

alternative, where the only minority community member (“minority member”) of the

grc vacates his or her seat; and
 
(c)          

in

the alternative, a declaratory order that s 24(2a) of the pea is void for

inconsistency with art 49(1) of the constitution of the republic of

singapore (1985 rev ed, 1999 reprint) (“the constitution”).  
 
3             

at

the hearing before the high court judge (“the judge”), the appellant and the

attorney-general (“the respondent”) agreed to have the leave application and

the substantive application for relief heard together.
 
4             

the

appellant argued that the law required that the remaining members of myt grc

vacate their seats and that a by-election then be held in myt grc. she

relied on three main arguments:
 
(a)          

first,

art 49(1) of the constitution mandates that a by-election must be called

when any seat in a grc falls vacant for any reason other than a dissolution of

parliament;
 
(b)          

second,

art 39a(2) of the constitution requires that there must be a minority

member for a grc until the dissolution of parliament; and 
 
(c)          

third,

voters have the right to be represented by an elected member of their choice

until the dissolution of parliament pursuant to an “implied right to

representation” contained in the constitution.
 
5             

the

respondent, on the other hand, submitted that s 24(2a) of the pea

specifically prohibited a by-election from being called when any seat in a grc

became vacant unless all the other seats in that grc had also been vacated. the

respondent argued that on a proper interpretation of art 49(1) of the constitution,

the provision did not conflict with s 24(2a). the respondent highlighted

that parliament had expressly considered the issue of what would occur in the

event that a member vacated a grc seat, and had arrived at the conclusion

expressed in s 24(2a). the respondent’s case was that art 49(1) ought

to be given an updating or rectifying construction to take into account the

later introduction of grcs; alternatively, art 49(1) should be construed

as being applicable only to single member constituencies (“smcs”) and not to

grcs.
 
6             

the

judge rejected the appellant’s proposed interpretation of art 49(1) as

unworkable because it required the remaining members of myt grc to resign

when there was no legal basis for compelling their resignation. he held that an

updating or rectifying construction should be applied to art 49(1) to

reflect the changes introduced by the insertion into the constitution of art 39a,

which provided for the designation of constituencies as grcs. he rejected the

appellant’s arguments on art 39a(2) of the constitution and the “implied

right to representation” contained in the constitution. in addition to denying

the substantive application for relief, he also held that the appellant had not

shown an arguable or prima facie case

for granting the reliefs sought and thus declined to grant her leave to apply

for those reliefs. costs were awarded against the appellant.
the

parties’ respective cases on appeal
7             

the

parties’ respective cases on appeal were broadly consistent with their cases in

the court below. in addition to the arguments canvassed there, the appellant contended

that an updating or rectifying construction of art 49(1) as adopted by the

judge would entail the court overstepping its constitutional role. she also

contested the judge’s decision to award costs against her on the basis that her

application raised a legal question of genuine public concern. the respondent

focused on the fact that on the appellant’s own case, compelling the remaining members

of myt grc to vacate their seats was a necessary precondition for making

an order that a by-election be held in myt grc; there was, however, no

legal basis to make such a mandatory order. 

 
 
the

issues on appeal
8          the

key issue in the appeal was whether the proper interpretation of art 49(1)

of the constitution mandated that a by-election had to be called in myt grc.

there were also four other issues for determination:
(a)        whether art 39a of the constitution

required that a vacancy left specifically by a minority member of a grc other than by the dissolution of

parliament had to be filled by a by-election in any event;
(b)        whether, by reason of voters’ implied to

representation in parliament, the appellant was entitled to an order for a

by-election to be called in myt grc;
(c)        even if the appellant failed in

obtaining the substantive reliefs sought, whether she had nonetheless made out

an arguable or prima facie case for

granting those reliefs such that leave ought to have been granted in the court

below; and
(d)        whether

the judge erred in ordering costs against the appellant.
 
the

court of appeal’s decision
the proper interpretation of art 49(1)

of the constitution
9          the

court of appeal (“the coa”) highlighted the three possible interpretations of

art 49(1) put forward by the parties in the context of a vacancy arising

in a single seat in a grc:
(a)        the vacancy, as and when it arose, should be filled by a by-election for all the

seats in the grc (“the appellant’s interpretation”);
(b)        the vacancy should only be filled by a by-election if

and when all the seats in the grc had been vacated (“the respondent’s first

interpretation”); or
(c)      the “seat of a member” in art 49(1)

referred only to the seat of a member of an smc and art 49(1) did not

apply to seats in a grc at all (“the respondent’s second interpretation”).
10        the

coa found that art 49(1) of the constitution was ambiguous on its face in

relation to whether and how it applied to grcs. the court noted that art 49(1)

was originally enacted in 1965, when the concept of grcs did not exist, and its

wording had remained largely unchanged since then. when read in the context of

the other relevant provisions of the constitution, it was unclear whether art 49(1)

was intended to apply to grcs. although art 49(1) was phrased in terms

that might be wide enough to include the interpretation that a by-election had

to be called when a single seat in a grc had been vacated, the constitution was

conspicuously silent and did not expressly compel the other members of the

affected grc to vacate their seats in such a scenario. this was, however, a

necessary precondition before any by-election in a grc could be held.

additionally, it was common ground between the parties that there was a

legislative oversight in the implementation of the grc scheme: parliament had

intended that a by-election would only be called in a grc if all the members in

the grc vacated their seats, but had omitted to include a provision in the

constitution to this effect. in the light of this ambiguity, it was permissible

to rely on extraneous material to ascertain the true meaning of art 49(1)

in relation to its application to grcs (at [28],

[33], [43], [46] and [48]).
11        the

relevant parliamentary debates were clear on parliament’s intention as to how

the grc scheme was envisioned to operate in the event of a single vacancy in a

grc: it was never intended that the government would be obliged to call a by-election

in this scenario. instead, a by-election would only have to be called if all

the members representing that grc were to vacate their seats. however, it was

unclear from the parliamentary debates how parliament intended to effect this

outcome. it could be that parliament had intended to amend the constitution but

had inadvertently omitted to do so, or it could be that parliament had simply

considered that the existing provisions in the constitution were sufficient to

achieve its intended outcome. this distinction raised two points that had a

significant bearing on the question of how the court should give effect to

parliament’s intention. first, if there was a reasonable possibility that

parliament did not intend to amend the constitution to put in place its

intended outcome, this raised the question of whether it was permissible for

the court to read in such an amendment. second, the practical outcome in this

case could depend on the means by which parliament had intended to effect its

intended outcome (at [53] and [54] to [56]).
12        given

the lack of clarity on the means by which parliament intended to achieve its

desired outcome, the coa found that there was insufficient certainty to apply either

a rectifying or updating construction to the constitution and construe art 49(1)

in a manner that its express words could not fairly bear. thus, the

respondent’s first interpretation was rejected (at [62], [67] and [69]).
13        both

the respondent’s second interpretation and the appellant’s interpretation did

not require adjustments to the language of art 49(1). between these two

interpretations, the coa preferred the respondent’s second interpretation

because the appellant’s interpretation led to the one result that parliament

had expressly intended to avoid when it implemented the grc scheme. to prefer

the appellant’s interpretation would have been contrary to the purposive

approach to constitutional interpretation which the court was bound to apply by

virtue of art 2(9) of the constitution and s 9a(1) of the

interpretation act (cap 1, 2002 rev ed). while the respondent’s

second interpretation was not ideal, in that it left the constitution silent on

the filling of a vacant seat in a grc, the coa noted three points. first, the

court’s role was not to fashion the ideal formulation of the words of art 49(1).

instead the court was constrained to work with the text as it stood and to pick

from the range of permissible interpretations the interpretation that would

best accord with the underlying purpose of art 49(1). second, the

respondent’s second interpretation accurately reflected the reality that at the

time art 49(1) was enacted, members of smcs were the only type of members

that the drafters of the provision would have had in mind. third, the lack of

an express provision for the filling of vacancies in a grc did not necessarily

mean that all the seats in a grc could be left vacant without an obligation on

the government’s part to call a by-election (at [70] to [72]). 
14        the

coa thus held that the words “seat of a member” in art 49(1) referred only

to the seat of an smc member, and there was no requirement pursuant to

art 49(1) for a by-election to be called in myt grc (at [73]). 
article 39a of the constitution and

minority members of grcs
15        the

coa rejected the appellant’s argument on this point because that argument

ignored the fact that in debating the amendments to the constitution and the

pea to put in place the grc scheme, parliament had specifically considered the

risk of minority representation being diminished if a minority member of a grc

vacated his or her seat, and had decided that this risk was an acceptable

trade-off for preventing a member of a grc from otherwise being able to hold

the rest of the members of that grc to ransom. to accept the appellant’s

argument on this point would have been a reversal of the policy choice

expressly made by parliament and would have resulted in the court overstepping

its constitutional role (at [75]).
the implied right to representation in

parliament
16        the

coa rejected the appellant’s argument on this point because her contention,

taken to its logical conclusion, implied that the grc scheme as conceived by

parliament was inconsistent with the basic structure of the constitution. the

court held that there was nothing in principle that would prevent parliament

from devising the grc scheme in such a way that a grc could be left to be

represented by less than its full complement of members. the court also found

that the appellant’s reliance on art 39(1)(a) of the constitution to substantiate her argument was misplaced

because this provision did not deal with either by-elections or how mid-term

vacancies were to be filled; rather, it was meant to be descriptive of the

composition of parliament (at [78]

and [82]).
whether leave should have been granted

in the court below
17        the

coa found that even though the appellant had failed to prove that

art 49(1) of the constitution required that a by-election must be held in

myt grc, there was nonetheless an arguable or prima facie case for granting the substantive reliefs sought as her

arguments did disclose points on the proper interpretation of art 49(1)

which warranted further consideration. the low threshold for granting leave was

thus met and leave ought to have been granted in the court below (at [86] to [87]).
whether the judge erred in ordering

costs against the appellant
18        the

coa accepted that where a serious question of constitutional law was raised,

the court might in its discretion depart from the usual rule that costs follow

the event. the coa noted that in the present case, it had: 
(a)        concluded that the issues raised in the

appeal warranted leave being given to the appellant to commence judicial review

proceedings; 
(b)        rejected the respondent’s primary case;

and
(c)        reversed the basis and the effect of the

judge’s decision, even though the result, at least as far as the appellant was

concerned, remained the same.
in the circumstances, the coa considered

that there should be no order as to costs both for the appeal and the

proceedings in the court below (at [94]

to [96]).
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a

substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.