supreme court of singapore
01 april 2019
case summary
li shengwu v the attorney-general [2019] sgca 20]

originating summons no 893 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered

by judge of appeal steven chong)
outcome: court of appeal dismisses the appellant’s appeal, and upholds

service out of jurisdiction of the committal papers on the appellant 
pertinent and significant points of the

judgment
·        

court

of appeal sets out the proper jurisdictional basis for contempt, and holds that

the high court’s subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt proceedings is

based on the high court’s inherent jurisdiction as a superior court, while its

personal jurisdiction over the individual contemnor who is located out of

jurisdiction is based on proper service of the committal papers in accordance

with the procedures set out in the rules of court: at [97]. 
·        

service

out would not be allowed on the basis of o 11 r 1(t) of the rules of court, which came into force only after the

alleged contempt was published, as it only has prospective application, and to

find that it could apply retrospectively would cause unfairness to the

appellant: at [133]–[135].
·        

service

out was properly granted on the basis of o 11 r 1(n) of the rules of court, which concerns a claim made under any

written law; here, the contempt proceedings constituted a claim brought under

the high court’s subject-matter jurisdiction in such matters pursuant to which

it had the power to punish for contempt of court as was expressly provided for

under s 7 of the supreme court of judicature act: at [167].
background to the appeal
1             

on 15 july 2017, the appellant published a post

on his facebook page. the material part of the post stated that “the singapore

government is very litigious and has a pliant court system. this constrains

what the international media can usually report”. the appellant later clarified

that his facebook post was shared on the “friends only” privacy setting, and

indicated his surprise that his post appeared to have attracted interest from

various media outlets and the attorney-general’s chambers (“agc”). 
2             

on 21 july 2017, the attorney-general (“ag”)

wrote to the appellant informing him that he considered the appellant’s 15 july

post to have been made in contempt of court. the ag asked the appellant to

purge his contempt by deleting and removing the allegedly contemptuous material

from his facebook page and other social media accounts; giving a written

apology and undertaking not to republish the contemptuous material or similarly

contemptuous material; and issuing the written apology and undertakings prominently

on his facebook page. the ag requested the appellant to comply by 28 july 2017.


3             

the appellant obtained an extension of time to

respond to the ag’s letter by 4 august 2017.
4             

on 4 august 2017, as the appellant had not

complied with the ag’s request, the ag commenced proceedings in originating

summons no 893 of 2017 (“os 893”) for leave to apply for an order of committal

for contempt of court against the appellant. 
5             

on 8 august 2017, the ag wrote to the appellant

notifying him that os 893 had been filed because of the appellant’s failure to

comply with the ag’s request. the ag offered to discontinue os 893 if the

appellant published the apology and undertaking by 21 august 2017. 
6             

the appellant did not publish the apology or

undertaking by 21 august 2017. on 21 august 2017, the high court granted leave

to the ag to apply for an order of committal against the appellant. 
7             

the appellant was no longer in singapore by this

point in time. the ag applied for leave to serve the committal papers on the

appellant out of jurisdiction. leave was granted, and the papers were duly

served personally on the appellant on 17 october 2017 at his us address. 
 
application to set aside

service of committal papers
8             

on 22 december 2017, the appellant applied to

set aside the service of the committal papers out of jurisdiction in summons

5843 of 2017 (“summons 5843”). the appellant challenged the high court’s

jurisdiction over him, on the basis that jurisdiction had not been properly

established because leave to serve the committal papers out of the jurisdiction

had been wrongly given. the high court judge (the “judge”) heard this

application and dismissed it. 
9             

the judge took the view that s 7 of the supreme

court of judicature act (cap 322, 2007 rev ed) (“scja”) conferred the high court

with jurisdiction to commit for contempt. service was not required to establish

jurisdiction under s 7, but the parties had agreed that proper service of the

committal papers in compliance with o 11 of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5,

2014 rev ed) (“rules of court”) was necessary. the judge held that the

committal papers were properly served out on the basis of o 11 r 1(n) and (s) of the rules of court, as the contempt proceedings were a claim

made under written law, that written law being s 7 of the scja, or

alternatively were also a claim concerning the enforcement of written law, the

written law again being s 7 of the scja.
10          

the appellant sought leave to appeal from the

judge. the judge refused leave to appeal. the appellant then sought leave to

appeal from the court of appeal. the court of appeal granted leave to appeal,

and formulated two questions for the parties to address in the appeal:
question 1
(a) was there any

statutory basis for the court to exercise substantive jurisdiction over a

foreign contemnor at the time of the commencement of proceedings? 
(b) if so,

identify the statutory basis.
 question 2
if the answer to

question 1(a) is yes and if o 11 r 1 of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014

rev ed) is necessary to confer jurisdiction, does o 11 r 1(t) apply

retroactively or is there any other limb in o 11 r 1 that could apply in order

to confer jurisdiction by enabling service to be effected under that provision?


 
arguments in the appeal
11          

in the appeal, the ag took the position that

because scandalising contempt was a type of criminal contempt, it was the high

court’s original criminal jurisdiction as set out in s 15 of the scja that was

engaged. on this approach, jurisdiction was not established by service of the

committal papers in accordance with the procedures set out in the rules of

court. instead, jurisdiction had already been established by virtue of the fact

that the appellant was in singapore at the time he published the alleged contempt.

the ag accepted that service of the committal papers was still required, but

service only had the effect of giving notice to the appellant that contempt proceedings

had been commenced against him, and did not establish the high court’s jurisdiction

over the appellant. service of the committal papers out of jurisdiction was

justified on four limbs in o 11 of the rules of court, namely limbs (n), (p), (s)

and (t): at [51] and [125]. 
12          

the appellant’s position was that it was proper

service of the committal papers in accordance with the rules of court that

established jurisdiction over an alleged contemnor. the appellant’s case was

that the high court had subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt

proceedings because the high court and the court of appeal collectively

comprised the supreme court, the institution in which the state’s judicial

power was vested. personal jurisdiction over the individual contemnor, however,

would also have to be established by proper service of the committal papers in

accordance with one of the heads of claim for service out of jurisdiction set

out in o 11 r 1 of the rules of court. use of this procedure engaged the

original civil jurisdiction of the high court, which was set out in s 16 of the

scja, and not the court’s original criminal jurisdiction. in this regard, none

of the disjunctive limbs of o 11 r 1 relied upon by the ag was satisfied, and

thus leave to serve out had been wrongly given and service ought now to be set

aside: at [49]–[50].
issue 1: the high court’s jurisdiction to hear

contempt proceedings
13          

the court of appeal did not accept the ag’s case

that the high court’s jurisdiction to hear contempt proceedings was based on

the high court’s original criminal jurisdiction. the ag’s case depended on a

distinction being drawn between civil and criminal contempt, but there was no

real substantive difference between the two in principle: at [54]. both categories of contempt had

been termed “quasi-criminal” in the established jurisprudence: at [56]–[57]. further, the two broad

categories of contempt were materially aligned in terms of procedure, standard

of proof and punishment: at [59]–[61].

these similarities in substance and procedure were readily comprehensible by

virtue of the fact that both categories were directed at the same goal:

preserving the proper administration of justice: at [63]–[66]. once this commonality of purpose, and similarities in

process and procedure, were taken into account, there was no reason in

principle to give the distinction between the categories of contempt such

significance that criminal contempt should be found to rest on the high court’s

criminal jurisdiction, and civil contempt on the high court’s civil jurisdiction:

at [67].
14          

the court of appeal also found that it was

incongruous to require service of committal papers in accordance with o 11 of

the rules of court if service did not have the effect of establishing personal jurisdiction:

at [91]–[94]. 
15          

the court of appeal preferred the appellant’s

approach that the substantive subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt

proceedings was based on the high court’s inherent jurisdiction, which was also

recognised and separately conferred by s 7 of the scja, while personal

jurisdiction over an alleged contemnor located outside the jurisdiction would

be established by proper service in accordance with s 16 of the scja read with

o 11 of the rules of court: at [97].
issue 2: service in accordance with o 11 of the rules

of court
16          

service in accordance with o 11 r 1 of the rules

of court being required, the court of appeal next considered whether any of the

disjunctive heads of claim, or limbs, of o 11 r 1 was satisfied. the ag argued

that service out was justified on four limbs of o 11 r 1, namely limbs (n), (p), (s)

and (t): at [125]. 
17          

the court of appeal did not accept that service

was permissible under limbs (p), (s) or (t). the court of appeal, however, accepted that service was

properly justified under limb (n),

which permits service out where the claim “is made under ….any other written

law”: at [150]. 
18          

the court of appeal held that it was up to the ag

how he wished to frame his claim against the appellant. here, consistently with

his practice in contempt cases, the ag elected to frame his case as a claim

brought under s 7 of the scja: at [154]–[155].

this was not a case where a provision having no or only a very tangential

relation to the claim was being relied upon as the relevant written law; in

other words, the framing of the claim was not merely a matter of presentation

with a peripheral reference to some written law. section 7 of the scja was the

relevant written law that expressly governed the scenario here – someone having

allegedly committed a contempt – by providing for both the subject-matter

jurisdiction as well as the power to punish the act; and it was that provision that

the ag properly made a claim under.
 
conclusion
19          

the court of appeal noted that the high court’s

subject-matter jurisdiction to hear contempt proceedings was not challenged in

this case. the court of appeal also considered that personal jurisdiction over

the appellant had been properly established by virtue of leave to serve out

having been properly granted pursuant to o 11 r 1(n). subject-matter jurisdiction and personal jurisdiction both

having been established, the high court’s jurisdiction over the appellant was

established. the appeal was therefore dismissed: at [172].
 
this summary is

provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it

is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in

bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in

the court’s grounds of decision.