supreme court of singapore
27 march 2019
case summary
thio syn pyn v thio syn

kym wendy and others and another appeal [2019] sgca 19
civil appeals nos 56 and 59 of 2018
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the court of appeal (delivered by judge of appeal andrew phang boon leong):
outcome: coa dismisses appeal against decision of the high court to value

the respondents’ minority shares without providing for a discount. it also

agreed with the high court that, in the case of a non-quasi-partnership, there

should not be a presumption that minority shares would be valued at a discount

and that the court should look at all the facts and circumstances of the case

in arriving at its decision as to whether a discount ought or ought not to be

applied.
introduction
1             

these

were appeals against the decision of the high court to value the respondents’

minority shares without providing for a discount.
background

to the appeal
2             

the

parties to these appeals were members of the thio family. three of the thio

siblings were the respondents in these appeals (“the respondents”). they were

the minority shareholders of mdi. their brothers were the appellants (“the

appellants”). they were the controlling shareholders of mdi. 
3             

in

earlier proceedings, it was found that the appellants had acted oppressively

against the respondents in relation to the management of mdi. the appellants

were thus ordered to purchase the respondents’ shares in mdi. as it turned out, the parties could not

agree whether a discount should be applied to the valuation of those shares. in

particular, they disagreed on the legal principles to be applied when the

company (in this case mdi) was not a “quasi-partnership” (a company run on the

basis of mutual trust and confidence between its controllers). they therefore sought a court

determination of the issue.
4             

having considered the evidence and the parties’

submissions, a high court judge (“the judge”) took the view that there is no

general rule when valuing

non-quasi-partnerships – the court must look at all the facts and circumstances

when determining whether a discount should be applied. having considered the

facts and circumstances of this case, the judge decided that the respondents’

shares should not be valued on a discounted basis. 
5             

the sole issue in these appeals was whether the judge was

correct to order that no minority discount be applied to the respondents’

shares in mdi. this encompassed the legal issue as to whether there is or

should be a presumption that minority shares in non-quasi-partnerships should

be valued at a discount.
the court’s decision 
6             

on the legal issue, the court disagreed with the

appellants’ submission that such a presumption should be applied. the cases

relied on by the appellants did not support their argument (at [21]). the relevant legal literature also suggested that there

ought not to be a presumption of a discount. what the court

concerned ought to do is simply to look at all the facts and circumstances of

the case in arriving at its decision as to whether a discount ought or ought

not to be applied (at [32]).
7             

the

court however clarified that the aforesaid principle may not be applicable to

quasi-partnerships. the court noted that since these appeals did not concern

quasi-partnerships, it would not set out a definitive view in respect of

quasi-partnerships until an appropriate case comes squarely before the court

(at [35]). 
8             

having

regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, the court agreed with the

judge that the respondents’ shares should not be valued at a discount. the

shares were transferred to the respondents because their parents had wanted to

make “financial provision” for them. the court was of the view that the

appellants’ oppressive conduct should not leave the respondents worse off. it

also considered that allowing the appellants to purchase the respondents’

shares at a discount would undermine their parents’ intentions (at [37]).
9             

the

court also took into account the fact that the result of the buyout would be an

increase in the shareholding of mdi controlled by the appellants from 56% to

76%. this would allow the appellants to pass special resolutions and enable

them to alter or add to the constitution of mdi. the court was of the view that

such significantly increased control over the company after the buyout further

justified an order of no discount (at [38]).
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.