supreme court of singapore
20 march 2019
case summary
ma wai fong kathryn v trillion

investments pte ltd and others and another appeal 
[2019] sgca 18
civil appeal 44 of 2018 and civil appeal 45 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision

of the court of appeal (delivered by justice judith prakash):
outcome: coa agreed with the hc’s decision

to dismiss the appellant’s application to wind up trillion investments pte ltd but

made an order for the winding-up of double ace trading company (private) limited

thus allowing the appeal in respect of the latter company.
pertinent point of the judgment: coa explained the law on winding up a

company on the just and equitable ground because it had lost its substratum. 
1          this

was an appeal against the decision of a high court (“hc”) judge who dismissed

the appellant’s applications to wind up trillion and double ace. 
 
background

to the appeal
2          the

appellant, mdm kathryn ma wai fong, is the widow of the late wong kie nie

(“wkn”) and the executrix of his estate. wkn was a malaysian businessman and

one of the three sons of the late datuk wong tuong kwong (“datuk wong”). the

other two sons are wong kie yik (“wky”) who was the second respondent in both

ca 44 and ca 45, and wong kie chie (“wkc”) who was the third respondent in ca

44 (at [3]).
3          datuk

wong was a highly successful malaysian businessman. his business empire

comprised more than 50 companies operating in several jurisdictions. trillion

and double ace (“the companies”) formed the singapore section of this empire

(at [5]).
4          datuk

wong managed all his companies from their respective inceptions till about 1990

when he suffered a stroke. wkn then took over datuk wong’s position and managed

the business empire until he himself fell ill in 2011. wkn was also a shareholder

and director of the companies. wkn passed away on 11 march 2013 (at [4] and

[6]).
5          since

wkn’s passing, the appellant and the rest of datuk wong’s family have been

embroiled in litigation across multiple jurisdictions. according to wky, as at

30 august 2017, 69 legal proceedings had been filed by the parties in malaysia,

the british virgin islands and singapore (at [13]).
6          in

august 2017, the appellant (as executrix of wkn’s estate) filed originating

summonses to wind up the companies under s 254(1)(i) of the companies act (cap 50, 2006 rev ed) (the “act”) (at [14]).

the appellant argued that first, the relationship of trust and confidence

shared between wkn, wky and wkc (“the wong brothers”) in the running of the

companies extended to the members of their respective families and this

relationship had irretrievably broken down (at [15]). second, the appellant

alleged that there had been mismanagement on the part of the directors and/or

employees of the companies (at [16]). finally, she alleged that there had been

a loss of substratum in respect of each of the companies (at [17]).
7          the

hc judge dismissed the appellant’s application to wind up the companies (at [19]

to [22]).
 
decision

on appeal
8          on

appeal, the court of appeal (“coa”) agreed with the hc judge’s findings that

the relationship of mutual trust and confidence shared between wkn, wky and wkc

did not extend to the appellant and that there was no mismanagement of the

companies.
9          however,

the coa allowed the appellant’s appeal to wind up double ace on the just and

equitable ground because it had lost its substratum. the coa held that the loss

of substratum argument could be relied on by any shareholder, not just one who

had been a member of the company since its incorporation (at [63]). a company’s

substratum is the main object which it was formed to achieve and when it is no

longer able to carry on that object, any

member may petition for a winding up order on the just and equitable ground. the

coa held that this is only fair because in situations where the main objective

of the company can no longer be achieved through no fault on the part of the

parties, the unfairness lies in holding the parties to the association despite

the loss of substratum, and a winding up order under s 254(1)(i) is often justified (at [63]). 
10        another

situation where the loss of substratum argument is available to an aggrieved

shareholder is where the company is effectively dormant at the time of the application

(contrary to what it was set up to do) and its finances are poor such that the

company is no longer viable. in such a situation, it can be said that the

company had stopped conducting the business it was set up to do and, given its

poor financial state, there is no longer any reasonable prospect that the

company will achieve its substratum (at [64]).
11        in

other words, the coa held that the guiding principle to bear in mind when

assessing whether to wind up a company on the basis that it has lost its

substratum is to consider whether there is unfairness in keeping the aggrieved

shareholder (irrespective of her reason for becoming a member of the company)

locked into a company which is no longer carrying out and/or can no longer

carry out the business it set out to do (at [65]).
12        the

coa found on the facts that trillion had not lost its substratum since it was

still acting as an investment holding company but double ace had because it stopped

conducting business after wkn fell ill in 2011. in that light, the coa dismissed

the appeal in ca 44 but allowed the appeal in ca 45 and ordered the winding up

of double ace.
 
this summary is provided to assist in

the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be

a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.