supreme court of singapore
15 march 2019
case summary
ramesh perumal v public prosecutor and another appeal [2019] sgca 17 

criminal appeal nos 57 and 58 of 2017
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
outcome: coa allows the appeal of one appellant against the hc decision to convict the appellant on a charge of possession of diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking. coa dismisses the appeal of another appellant against hc decision to convict the appellant on one charge of possession of diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking and two charges of trafficking in diamorphine.
pertinent and significant points of the judgment


the court should not shut its mind to any defence which is reasonably available on the evidence, even where that defence is (in some respects) inconsistent with the accused’s own narrative (at [87]).


an accused who returns drugs to a person who entrusted the drugs to the accused for safekeeping is not generally trafficking in drugs (at [103]–[110]).


however, an accused who passes drugs to another person with a view to reclaiming the drugs in the future is trafficking in drugs (at [123]–[125]). 


 
background to the appeal
1          this was an appeal against the conviction and sentence of two accused persons on four drug charges.
2          ramesh a/l perumal (“ramesh”) and chander kumar a/l jayagaran (“chander”) were the appellants in criminal appeals 57 and 58 of 2017 respectively. they were jointly tried on charges relating to nine bundles of diamorphine which were brought into singapore from malaysia in a lorry driven by chander, with ramesh as a passenger. chander was convicted on three charges:
(a)        one charge under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“mda”) for the possession of two bundles containing not less than 14.79g of diamorphine (“ab bundles”) for the purpose of trafficking;
(b)        one charge under s 5(1)(a) of the mda for trafficking by delivering three bundles containing not less than 19.27g of diamorphine (“e bundles”) to one harun bin idris (“harun”); and
(c)        one charge under s 5(1)(a) of the mda for trafficking by giving four bundles containing not less than 29.96g of diamorphine (“d bundles”) to ramesh.
chander was sentenced to life imprisonment and a total of 24 strokes of the cane.  
3          ramesh was convicted on a single charge under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the mda for possession of the d bundles for the purpose of trafficking. he was sentenced to life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane.
 
the material facts
4          ramesh and chander both worked as drivers for a company based in malaysia which handled deliveries in singapore. on 26 july 2013, chander drove ramesh into singapore in a lorry (“the first lorry”). after clearing woodlands checkpoint at about 7.40am, chander drove to a parking location along woodlands road where another lorry (“the second lorry”) was parked. at some point during the journey, ramesh received a bag containing the d bundles (“d1”) from chander. at the parking location, ramesh alighted from the first lorry and boarded the second lorry, carrying d1 with him. chander and ramesh then drove off separately. at 8.30am, chander was spotted stopping the first lorry close to a food centre at 20 marsiling lane. here, chander met harun. harun retrieved a plastic bag which contained the e bundles from the floor of the first lorry, and placed an envelope and a stack of cash on the passenger seat. chander then drove to the premise of sankyu (singapore) pte ltd (“sankyu”) at 11 clementi loop. he stopped the first lorry and alighted, and was arrested by cnb officers at about 8.55am. the cnb officers found the ab bundles inside the lorry and recovered cash amounting to $6,950. shortly thereafter, at about 9.00am, ramesh also stopped the second lorry at 11 clementi loop and alighted. while he was walking towards the premises of sankyu, he was arrested by cnb officers. the officers searched the second lorry and found d1. ramesh’s dna was found on one of the bundles inside d1.
5          in his statements to the police and at trial, ramesh’s position was that he did not know about the contents of d1. he claimed that chander had told him that d1 contained office documents, and had passed them to him for safekeeping. according to ramesh, chander had told him that he would take d1 back from ramesh later that day, and would bring the items in d1 back to malaysia. 
6          in chander’s initial statements, he stated that he did not know what was inside the bundles. later, however, chander gave statements admitting to each of the three charges and pleaded for mercy and a light sentence. in a final set of statements, chander’s position changed again, and he claimed he believed that the d, e and ab bundles contained betel nuts (“the betel nut defence”). chander’s defence at trial focused on the betel nut defence. 
7          ramesh’s case on appeal differed from his position at trial. he admitted to opening d1 after receiving it from chander and handling one of the four black bundles inside. this explained the fact that his dna was found on one of the bundles. however, he maintained that although he knew that there were bundles inside d1, he was unsure of what was inside the bundles, and did not give the matter any thought. ramesh also raised arguments to attack chander’s credibility. 
8          chander’s case on appeal was essentially the same as his case at trial, namely that he believed the bundles contained betel nuts. he claimed that he only admitted to the charges in his cautioned statements because he was confused and nervous. 
decision on appeal
ramesh’s appeal
9          the court of appeal allowed ramesh’s appeal against conviction. in order for the charge to be made out, the prosecution had to prove possession of the drug, knowledge of the nature of the drug, and that the possession of the drug was for the purpose of trafficking. there was no doubt that ramesh was in possession of the drug, as the d1 bundles were found in the lorry which he was driving, and he had opened d1 and touched one of the d bundles (at [64]). 
10        the prosecution could not prove that ramesh had knowledge of the nature of the drugs beyond a reasonable doubt. while there was evidence that ramesh knew that the d bundles contained an illicit substance, there was insufficient evidence to prove that ramesh knew that the d bundles contained the specific drug in question, diamorphine. unlike chander, who previously performed a similar delivery to harun and had witnessed a large sum of money being paid in the previous delivery, there was no evidence that ramesh had done the same. chander’s own account was that this was the first time ramesh was involved in illicit deliveries. chander stated that he told ramesh that the bundles contained betel nuts. there were also references in chander’s statements to ramesh being reluctant to assist with the deliveries and initially refusing to be involved. the overall impression which emerged from chander’s statements was that ramesh was fairly inexperienced, and not very well acquainted with the task he had been asked to performed. it was reasonably plausible that despite the fact that ramesh did have some level of interaction or involvement with the drug suppliers generally, it was not to such an extent that ramesh knew the full details of their operations, including the precise contents of the bundles (at [67]–[70]).
11        the prosecution thus had to rely on the presumption found in s 18(2) of the mda to prove that ramesh had knowledge of the nature of the drug. ramesh could not rebut this presumption. his explanation that he believed that d1 contained office documents was wholly unsustainable, given that he had since admitted that he opened d1 and saw that there were four black bundles within. his position that he was “not very sure” what was within the bundles was insufficient to rebut the presumption of knowledge (at [70]).
12        however, because the prosecution relied on the presumption in s 18(2) of the mda, the prosecution could not rely on the presumption of trafficking contained in s 17 of the mda, and thus had to prove that ramesh was in possession of the drugs for the purpose of trafficking beyond a reasonable doubt. the court found that the prosecution did not succeed in doing so. the court rejected the prosecution’s primary case that ramesh was supposed to deliver the d bundles to a recipient in bedok. there was an issue of procedural fairness in the way the prosecution conducted its case because the prosecution shifted its position in the middle of trial regarding an important aspect of its case, namely, the time when chander had the crucial discussion with ramesh during which he obtained ramesh’s agreement to help with delivering the d bundles. initially, the prosecution relied on chander’s account that this crucial discussion occurred the night before chander and ramesh were arrested. after counsel for ramesh mounted a serious challenge to the veracity of chander’s version of events, the prosecution took the final position that the crucial discussions between chander and ramesh took place while they were en route to singapore in the first lorry (at [82]). 
13        quite apart from the issue of procedural fairness, the court found that there were several other difficulties with this final position. first, there was a contradiction between the objective phone records and chander’s narrative. this raised doubts about chander’s credibility and reliability. second, the evidence given by chander himself, that ramesh was extremely reluctant to assist in performing deliveries of the bundles, did not sit well with the prosecution’s case (that ramesh would have agreed to perform a delivery of the d bundles on the spur of the moment, based on a brief exchange while they were en route to singapore). third, the prosecution offered a fragmented narrative as to what exactly ramesh had agreed to do with the d bundles. there was no evidence concerning who exactly ramesh was to deliver the d bundles to, nor was there evidence concerning how much, if anything, ramesh had been offered in return for performing the delivery (at [83]–[86]). 
14        the court highlighted that the fact that ramesh had agreed to take on the d bundles did not mean, without more, that he must have agreed to perform a delivery of the same. the court accepted that one reasonable possibility was that ramesh was safekeeping the drugs with the intention of returning them to chander. this was consistently asserted in ramesh’s statements, albeit in the context of his claim that d1 contained office documents. the court emphasised that merely because one key aspect of an “all or nothing” defence is untenable, it did not mean that all other aspects of such a defence should be rejected (at [87]).
15        the court also rejected the prosecution’s alternative argument that even if ramesh intended to return the drugs to chander, this would constitute “trafficking” within s 2 of the mda. the court found that an accused who takes custody of drugs, with the intention of returning them to the person who initially entrusted him with the drugs, and in fact returns the drugs, would not be trafficking:
(a)        the act of “returning” did not unambiguously fall within the definition of “traffic” as defined in s 2 of the mda. 
(b)        in enacting the mda and legislating for harsh penalties to be imposed in respect of trafficking offences, parliament was not simply concerned with addressing the movement of drugs per se, but the movement of drugs along the supply chain towards the end-users. 
(c)        seen in this light, the court found that there was a fundamental difference in character between holding a quantity of drugs only with the intention of returning them to the person who originally deposited those drugs, and possession with a view to passing the drugs onwards to a third party. in the former situation, the returning of the drugs could not form part of the process of disseminating those drugs from the original source of supply towards the ultimate recipient to whom the drugs are to be supplied because the act of returning the drugs ran counter to that very direction. on the other hand, in the latter situation, the intended transfer of the drugs to a third party was presumptively part of the process of moving the drugs along a chain in which they would eventually be distributed to their final consumer (at [103]–[110]).
16        on this basis, the court allowed the appeal against ramesh’s conviction for possession for the purpose of trafficking, amended the charge to one for possession simpliciter under s 8(a) of the mda and convicted him under the amended charge. the court sentenced ramesh to the maximum of ten years’ imprisonment in light of the substantial quantity of diamorphine in question and the fact that ramesh knew he was committing some act that was connected, in a loose sense, to the illicit circulation of drugs (at [117]). 
chander’s appeal
17        the court of appeal dismissed chander’s appeal against conviction and sentence. 
18        in relation to the conviction on the charges relating to the e and ab bundles, the only issue was whether chander could rebut the presumption of knowledge in s 18(2) of the mda. the court agreed with the judge below that chander could not rebut the presumption. this was because the evidence suggested that the betel nut defence that chander raised was an afterthought. additionally, given the large sum of money involved in a previous similar transaction with harun, chander must have known that what he had previously delivered, and what he was delivering again, could not have been betel nuts (at [40]–[44]).
19        in relation to the conviction on the charge relating to the d bundles. chander only contested the fact that the judge found that he could not rebut the presumption of knowledge in s 18(2) of the mda. he did so by raising the betel nut defence. the court rejected this defence for the same reasons the court rejected the defence in the context of the e and ab bundles. although chander did not dispute the point, the court considered whether the element of trafficking was made out in light of the finding that the evidence disclosed a reasonable possibility that chander gave ramesh the d bundles with a view to later taking the bundles back from ramesh. the court found that such an act was indeed trafficking. this was because such an act fell unambiguously within the ordinary meaning of terms such as “giving” and “delivering” which were found in the definition of “traffic” in s 2 of the mda. additionally, the court noted that a person who initiates a safekeeping arrangement arguably stood in a position of greater culpability as compared to the recipient who returns the drugs. the recipient, in returning the drugs, did not move the drugs to a third party and without more could not be said to advance trafficking in the sense of contributing to the movement along the supply chain towards the ultimate consumers. but as far as the initiator of the arrangement was concerned, by delivering the drugs to the recipient, he had already moved the drugs onto a new link in the supply chain, and thus had presumptively engaged in trafficking. thus, even if chander gave ramesh the d bundles with a view to reclaiming possession of them, this would nevertheless have amounted to trafficking within the meaning of s 5(1)(a) of the mda (at [122]–[125] and [127]). 
20        therefore the court upheld chander’s conviction on all three charges. in relation to his sentence, chander had received the minimum sentences prescribed by law based on the charges on which he had been convicted, and hence the appeal on sentence was dismissed (at [128]).
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.