supreme court of singapore
12 march 2019
case summary
registrar appeal no 339 of 2018
ong boon hwee v cheah ng soo and another [2019] sghc 65
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the high court (delivered by justice chan seng onn):
outcome: <high court holds that a writ of seizure and sale can be attached to a joint tenant’s interest in land> 
background 
1          in recent times, there have been several conflicting high court decisions dealing with the question of whether a joint tenant’s interest in immovable property can be subject to a writ of seizure and sale (“wss”). while the court in malayan banking bhd v focal finance ltd [1998] 3 slr(r) 1008 (“malayan banking”) and chan lung kien v chan shwe ching [2017] sghc 136 (“chan lung kien”) decided in the negative, two other high court decisions, namely, chan shwe ching v leong lai yee [2015] 5 slr 295 (“leong lai yee”) and peter low llc v higgins, danial patrick [2018] 4 slr 1003 (“peter low”) took a contrary position.
2          in ong boon hwee v cheah ng soo and another [2019] sghc 65, chan seng onn j (“chan j”) decided that a joint tenant’s interest in land is exigible to a wss.
facts
3          the plaintiffs, cheah ng soo and phoey kaw moi (collectively “the plaintiffs”) entered into a consent judgment with chan shwe ching (“the defendant”), whereby the defendant was to pay them a certain sum with interest thereon. to enforce the consent judgment, the plaintiffs sought and obtained a wss in respect of the defendant’s property, which was subject to a joint tenancy between the defendant and her husband, ong boon hwee (“the appellant”).
4          the appellant applied to set aside the wss granted against the property which he jointly held with the defendant. the assistant registrar dismissed the appellant’s application. the appellant appealed.
reasons for the judgment
5          in coming to his decision, chan j embarked on a historical overview of execution of money judgments against land, where he agreed with pang khang chau jc’s (“pang jc”) finding in peter low at [36(c)] that, prior to the court’s decision in malayan banking, all relevant authorities appeared to allow a joint tenant’s interest in land to be attached in execution: at [21]–[36]. 
6          chan j also found that allowing a joint tenant’s interest to be attached to a wss would be consistent with the intention of john baalman (“baalman”), the draftsman of the land titles ordinance (the predecessor of the present-day land titles act). in his commentary on the land titles ordinance, baalman wrote that, in australia, the interest of a joint tenant could be taken under a writ, and that there was nothing in the ordinance which made the australian decisions inapplicable: at [39].
7          however, the court in malayan banking and chan lung kien had held that there was nothing for the wss to latch onto as “each joint tenant holds nothing by himself; he holds the whole estate together with the other joint tenants” (chan lung kien at [29]). 
8          in response, chan j agreed with pang jc’s finding in peter low at [77], that there was another not altogether compatible aspect of joint tenancy, namely, that a joint tenant has a real ownership interest which is capable of immediate alienation (“the second aspect of joint tenancy”). once this second aspect of joint tenancy was recognised, it was not a requirement that the wss concomitantly severs a joint tenancy before it may attach to a joint tenant’s interest in land: at [48]–[49].
9          instead, as is consistent with baalman’s intention, the wss may attach to a joint tenant’s interest in land independent of severance of the joint tenancy: at [50].
10        this was supported by the broad wording of the relevant statutory provisions, which do not indicate the need for severance of the joint tenancy before the wss may be attached for the purposes of enforcing a judgment (at [51]). there was no judicial overreach in allowing for such attachment despite the lack of express statutory wording enabling the seizure of a joint tenant’s interest under a wss; the canadian and australian statutes which expressly provided for the attachment of the interest of a joint tenant under a writ were clarificatory rather than enabling provisions: at [55]–[60].
11        the court of appeal’s decision in chan lung kien v chan shwe ching [2018] 2 slr 84, which did not deal with the issue in this case, did not affect the decision as to whether a wss could attach to a joint tenant’s interest in land: at [62]–[67].
12        having found that a wss could be attached to a joint tenant’s interest in land, chan j found that the defendant had, by virtue of the presumption of advancement which was not rebutted, a beneficial interest in the property: at [69]–[72]. as such, the assistant registrar was correct in holding that the defendant’s joint tenancy interest in the property was exigible to the wss.  
addendum
13        for the avoidance of doubt, under the judgment, a joint tenant’s interest is exigible to a wss independent of the severance of the joint tenancy. chan j did not make any finding as to whether the joint tenancy can be severed by a subsequent registration of the wss, as pang jc considered in peter low at [97].
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.