supreme court of singapore
28 february 2019
case

summary
gan

chai bee anne v public prosecutor [2019] sghc 42                                                          

magistrate

appeal no 9234 of 2018
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the high court (delivered by

chief justice sundaresh menon):
high court reduces sentence

for offences under s 6(c) of

prevention of corruption act, and clarifies approach to restitution as

sentencing factor and sentencing for multiple offences.

background


the appellant was the owner of

    d3 pte ltd (“d3”), which designed and installed store displays for nike singapore

    pte ltd (“nike”). d3 was paid on invoices submitted to nike for work done by

    d3’s workers. ms joanne cheong, a manager with nike responsible for processing

    these invoices, initiated a scheme to exploit this arrangement to extract

    pecuniary gain for herself and two of her colleagues. she enlisted the help of

    the appellant to submit inflated invoices to mislead nike into overpaying d3

    and, after being paid on these invoices, to transfer the illegitimate gains to

    ms cheong. nike lost $77,546.40 through 154 such invoices before the scheme was

    unravelled after two years: at [2]–[4].


ms cheong was charged with a

    corresponding 154 charges under s 6(c) of the prevention of corruption act (cap

    241, 1993 rev ed) (“the act”) for, in each instance, knowingly using, with

    intent to deceive her principal, nike, a receipt which contained a false

    statement and which she knew was intended to mislead her principal. she made

    full restitution to nike, and then pleaded guilty to 22 of those charges. the

    remaining were taken into consideration for the purpose of sentencing. she was

    sentenced to 20 weeks’ imprisonment: at [5].


154 related charges were then

    brought against the appellant, also under s 6(c), but under the limb of that

    provision which makes it an offence knowingly to give to an agent – ms cheong

    being nike’s agent – any receipt which contains a false statement and which to the

    giver’s knowledge is intended to mislead the principal. the appellant pleaded

    guilty to ten of those charges. the remaining were taken into consideration for

    the purpose of sentencing. she was sentenced by the district judge to 13 weeks’

    imprisonment. she appealed against her sentence, asking for a fine to be

    substituted: at [6] and [10].
the court’s decision


the court began with the

    district judge’s decision on the appellant’s sentence, and considered that it

    arose largely from his overall impression of the sentence warranted by the

    seriousness of the appellant’s offences relative to that of ms cheong’s. the

    court held that this was the wrong approach. the proper approach consisted of

    two steps. the first was to reach a provisional view of the individual sentence

    for each offence. the second was to consider whether the existence of any

    cumulative sentencing factors justified adjusting the individual sentences or

    running them consecutively, and to explain the reason for any such adjustment

    thought necessary. the second step was informed by the totality principle,

    which not only safeguarded against excessive sentences, but also against

    inadequate sentences, and for that reason, might have a boosting effect on

    individual sentences where they would otherwise result in a manifestly

    inadequate overall sentence. adopting this two-step approach was necessary to

    ensure consistency in outcomes and transparency in reasoning: at [18]–[22] and [24]–[30].


in this case, at the first

    step, the precedents made it difficult to justify the imposition of a custodial

    sentence for each charge, taken individually, because of the relatively small

    amount of the unauthorised claim involved in each charge. further, none of the

    unauthorised claims were intended to accrue to the appellant’s benefit. but

    when the unauthorised claims involved in all the charges, both proceeded with

    and taken into consideration, were taken together, it then became readily

    apparent that the property nike was made to part with was of significant value.

    what follows from this is that the idea that the custodial threshold was

    crossed on this ground was a conclusion as to the totality of the appellant’s offending

    conduct, and this should therefore have been considered only at the second step

    of the analysis: at [35] and [39].


turning to the second step, the

    court considered together the first three aspects of the totality of the

    appellant’s conduct, namely, the substantial sum involved, ms cheong’s

    restitution and the fact that the appellant was not intended to benefit from

    nike’s loss: at [41]. 


the court noted that generally,

    in sentencing for financial and property offences, the greater the economic

    value involved in the offence, the heavier the sentence. this was because

    economic value was a proxy for the degree of criminal benefit received by the

    offender and the degree of harm caused to the victim. there were two qualifications

    to this. first, where an offender was not intended to benefit from what the

    victim had been caused to part with, the value of the victim’s economic loss

    would not accurately reflect his culpability. second, economic value indicated

    only economic harm suffered by the victim, and not other forms of harm, such as

    harm suffered by society at large if the offence had the effect of infringing

    public interest. this case implicated both qualifications: at [42]–[43].


as to the first, the

    substantial value of the total sum that nike was caused to part with was not an

    accurate proxy for ms cheong’s culpability. this is because none of the

    $77,546.40 that nike was made to part with was intended for the appellant. while

    the appellant admitted that she participated in the scheme to build a good

    business relationship with nike, why this was necessary was unclear because she

    also said, and the prosecution did not dispute, that d3 was already doing

    business with nike since 2006 so there was no need to curry any further favours

    from nike. the court therefore did not give this motive significant weight: at [45]–[46].


as to the second, the economic

    harm sustained by nike was in fact the most relevant form of harm affecting the

    seriousness of the appellant’s offences, and it was significantly reduced by ms

    cheong’s making of full restitution to nike. nike’s economic harm was the most

    relevant harm because the central mischief targeted by s 6(c) of the act was

    not corruption, which went beyond economic harm in damaging the integrity of

    businesses or public institutions, but the dishonest exploitation of the

    agent-principal relationship, which did not necessarily have that kind of repercussion,

    and instead usually resulted in only economic harm to the principal. this was

    in fact the case here, but such harm, consisting in the $77,546.40 that nike

    lost, had been substantially reduced by ms cheong’s restitution. in this

    regard, while restitution generally evidences the remorse of only the maker,

    who in this case is ms cheong and not the appellant, it may also indicate that

    the economic harm that the victim has suffered has been reduced, and indeed,

    substantially reduced if full restitution was made. this is what happened here,

    and it weighed in favour of the appellant: at [59]–[63] and [67].


the result is that the total value

    involved in her offences was not a sufficient reason for concluding that the

    custodial threshold was crossed. to the extent that the district judge held

    otherwise, he had erred: at [69].


the remaining two aspects of

    the totality of the appellant’s offending conduct were her premeditation in

    committing the offences and the long period over which she committed them, and

    the court considered that both of them justify imposing a custodial sentence in

    this case. they showed that she had committed the offences deliberately, and

    therefore spelt the need for a deterrent sentence and demonstrated a high

    degree of culpability on her part on account of which she deserved a suitably

    harsh sentence to signal society’s disapproval of her conduct. these deterrent

    and retributive aims were satisfactorily met only with a sentence of imprisonment,

    and justified increasing the individual sentences for her charges from what

    would, taken alone, have been fines, to short custodial sentences. the court

    gave minimal weight to her plea of guilt because it was entered late and in the

    face of strong evidence against her: at [70]–[75].


having considered the

    precedents, the court substituted a sentence of one week’s imprisonment for

    each proceeded charge. as the value involved in the offences was not

    meaningfully treated as an aggravating factor here, the calibrated sentences need

    not be proportionate to the amount of the unauthorised claim involved in each

    charge, and should instead be uniform, given that the relevant aggravating

    factors, namely, the appellant’s premeditation and the long period of her

    offending, arose equally from each of those charges considered in totality: at [76].


finally, in view of the

    appellant’s multiple offences, it was appropriate for the sentences for the

    first five proceeded charges to run consecutively. this resulted in an

    aggregate sentence of five weeks’ imprisonment. this struck the proper balance

    between communicating a deterrent and retributive message to the appellant for

    her active and knowing involvement in a dishonest scheme, and reflecting how

    the economic harm caused to the victim of that scheme has been all but

    reversed. the appeal was therefore allowed to this extent: at [78].

this summary is provided to assist in

    the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a

    substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

    brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.