supreme court of singapore26 april 2023case summaryabdoll mutaleb bin raffik v public prosecutor [2023] sgca 12; mohd noor bin ismail v public prosecutor [2023] sgca 12     criminal appeal no. 21 of 2019; criminal appeal no. 8 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (comprising sundaresh menon cj, tay yong kwang jca and belinda ang jca)(judgment delivered by justice tay yong kwang):outcome: the court of appeal dismissed the appeal against conviction and sentence in criminal appeal no. 8 of 2020 (“ca 8”). it allowed the appeal against conviction but amended the charge against the appellant in criminal appeal no. 21 of 2019 (“ca 21”). pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the court dismissed the allegations made by the appellant in ca 8 with respect to inadequate legal assistance by his former defence counsel and threat, inducement and promise by the investigation officer assigned to his case: at [81]–[82].•  the appellant in ca 8 was correctly convicted and sentenced for the charge of importing not less than 12 bundles containing not less than 212.57g of diamorphine in furtherance of a common intention. his sentence of life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane was appropriate: at [83]–[86].•  while the appellant in ca 21 was charged for abetment by engaging in a conspiracy with other persons, this alleged conspiracy was not proved beyond reasonable doubt: at [88], [112]–[114].•  there was sufficient evidence to amend the charge against the appellant in ca 21 to that of attempted possession of diamorphine: at [115]–[122].background to the appeal1 the present appeals were brought by noor and mutaleb against their respective convictions and sentences in criminal case no. 32 of 2018 (“cc 32”). cc 32 was a joint trial of mohd zaini bin zainutdin (“zaini”), mohd noor bin ismail (“noor”) and abdoll mutaleb bin raffik (“mutaleb”) for offences under the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“mda”). 2 zaini was charged and convicted under s 7 mda read with s 34 of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) (“penal code”) for importing into singapore not less than twelve bundles containing 5,520.4 grams of granular/powdery substance which was analysed and found to contain not less than 212.57 grams of diamorphine, together with noor and in furtherance of the common intention of them both. as he was issued a certificate of substantive evidence (“csa”) and found to be a courier, he was sentenced under s 33b(1)(a) mda to life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane. zaini did not appeal against his conviction and sentence.3 noor was charged and convicted under s 7 mda read with s 34 of the penal code for importing into singapore not less than twelve bundles containing 5,520.4 grams of granular/powdery substance which was analysed and found to contain not less than 212.57 grams of diamorphine, together with zaini and in furtherance of the common intention of them both. as he was issued a csa and found to be a courier, he was sentenced under s 33b(1)(a) mda to life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane.4 mutaleb was charged and convicted under s 7 read with s 12 of the mda for abetting by engaging in a conspiracy with zaini, noor, one male known as “apoi” and others, to import into singapore a class a controlled drug listed in the first schedule to the mda. as he did not qualify for the alternative sentencing regime under s 33b mda, he was sentenced to suffer the mandatory death penalty. 5 mutaleb and noor appealed against their convictions and sentences in ca 21 and ca 8 respectively. on appeal, noor contended that he had been given inadequate and improper legal assistance and that there had been threat, inducement or promise (“tip”) from the investigating officer assigned to his case. he also claimed to have no knowledge of the drugs. mutaleb argued on appeal that the difficulties and shortcomings in the case against him sufficed to raise a reasonable doubt as to his guilt, that he did not know who apoi was and could not have been engaged in a conspiracy with him, that zaini was not a credible witness and little or no weight should be attached to his evidence against mutaleb and that the other evidence relied on by the judge to convict mutaleb was wanting.the material facts6 zaini stated that on 10 september 2015, he, noor and apoi packed bundles of diamorphine in zaini’s car (the “car”). on 11 september 2015, noor drove the car from malaysia to singapore with zaini as a passenger. central narcotics bureau (“cnb”) officers searched the car, found bundles of drugs in the car and arrested zaini and noor. 7 later the same day, zaini was instructed by a cnb officer to call mutaleb. through the cnb-monitored phone calls, mutaleb and zaini made an appointment to meet at a car park (the “location”) on the same night for zaini to pass mutaleb “thirteen” in exchange for a total of “thirty nine thousand singapore money”.8 following this, two cnb officers went to the location in the car with a plastic bag of mock drugs. mutaleb arrived and accepted the plastic bag containing mock drugs from the cnb officers in the car. shortly thereafter, he dropped the plastic bag while walking away and was then arrested by cnb officers in the vicinity.decision on appeal9 in respect of noor’s allegations against his former defence counsel, noor had not come close to the high standard required to establish inadequate legal assistance: at [81].10 in respect of noor’s allegations of tip against the investigating officer assigned to his case, there was no reason to disagree with the finding of the trial judge that noor had acknowledged that the tip, if any, did not operate on his mind: at [82].11 the statutory presumptions in the mda on knowledge under s 18(2) and on possession under s 21 operated against noor. having opted to remain silent during the trial, noor had no substantive evidence to rebut these presumptions. the trial judge rightly found that an adverse inference should be drawn that noor knew that the bundles contained drugs. this finding is in accord with the available evidence: at [83]–[86].12 there was no dispute that noor was a mere courier for the transaction in issue and he had the benefit of a csa. his sentence of life imprisonment and 15 strokes of the cane was appropriate: at [86].13 none of the statutory presumptions in the mda applied against mutaleb as he was only in possession of mock drugs. the prosecution had to prove beyond reasonable doubt that mutaleb had actual knowledge of the nature of the drugs: at [89].14 zaini’s evidence was insufficient to prove the conspiracy alleged in the charge against mutaleb beyond reasonable doubt. zaini’s evidence that he had overheard a phone conversation between apoi and mutaleb on 10 september 2015, which was in essence the agreement to collect drugs from zaini, kept shifting. also, in a recorded phone call between zaini and mutaleb on 11 september 2015, it appeared that mutaleb did not know who apoi was, or at the least that any illegal activity between zaini and mutaleb did not appear to involve apoi: at [90]–[94].15 mutaleb gave a long statement (the “unsigned statement”) on 17 september 2015. after the statement was recorded, he indicated that he did not wish to sign it as he had made it up and it was not the truth. this statement was made voluntarily and in an apparent effort to tell much more than what he was willing to disclose in the days immediately following his arrest. for some reason only known to him, he had a change of heart after recording the statement and refused to sign it. the fact that he refused to sign the statement without good cause in the circumstances did not affect its admissibility: at [95]–[103].16 mutaleb’s unsigned statement was admissible under s 258(1) of the criminal procedure code (cap 68, 2012 rev ed) (“cpc”) as a record of his voluntary oral statement and it had probative value, showing that he was no stranger to drugs, that he knew a consignment of five balls of heroin was coming into singapore on 11 september 2015 and that he was talking about heroin when he spoke to zaini over the phone. the unsigned statement also supported the cnb officers’ version of the events at the location: at [104]–[109].17 however, even with the admission of the unsigned statement, the charge against mutaleb was not proved beyond reasonable doubt as there was no convincing evidence of a conspiracy among the parties named: at [112]–[114].18 the prosecution was justified in submitting that mutaleb could be convicted on an amended charge for attempted possession of drugs. on the totality of the evidence, mutaleb was clearly attempting to take possession of 13 bundles of drugs, which he knew contained diamorphine, from zaini. there was sufficient evidence to invoke s 390(4) cpc and proceed thereafter under ss 390(6) to (8) cpc against mutaleb. however, the amount of drugs in the amended charge should be limited to that stated in the original charge against mutaleb as that was the amount in issue throughout the trial: at [115]–[121].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.