supreme court of singapore



15 january 2019



case summary


sck serijadi sdn bhd v artison interior pte ltd 

[2019] sgca 05




civil appeal no 231 of 2017





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by steven chong ja):





outcome: coa affirms high court’s holding that a judgment creditor

does not become a secured creditor by virtue of having served a garnishee

order nisi on a garnishee before a judgment debtor is placed under

winding up.



background to the appeal



1 this was an appeal against the decision of the high court judge (“the

judge”) refusing to grant the appellant leave to continue with garnishee

proceedings which the appellant had commenced to enforce a judgment debt

owed to it by the respondent before the latter was placed under winding up.

the judge’s grounds of decisions are reported at    sck serijadi sdn bhd v artison interior pte ltd [2018] sghc 08.

the judge reasoned that pursuant to ss 299(2) and 334(1) of the companies

act, the default position was that the appellant was neither entitled to

continue with the garnishee proceedings, nor to retain the benefit of the

incomplete attachment, and there was no reason for the court to exercise

its discretion to depart from this default position. in so deciding, the

judge rejected the appellant’s argument that before the respondent was

placed under winding up, the appellant had become a secured creditor by

virtue of an equitable charge created in its favour when it served a

garnishee order nisi on the garnishee.



facts



2 the appellant obtained judgment against the respondent in the district

court for the sum of $250,000 plus interest and costs. in a bid to enforce

this judgment, the appellant commenced two sets of garnishee proceedings

seeking to attach debts owed to the respondent by shanghai chong kee

furniture & construction pte ltd (“the garnishee”). the appellant

successfully obtained two garnishee orders nisi which it served on

the garnishee. before the show cause hearing, however, the respondent was

placed under creditor’s voluntary winding up. under s 299(2) of the

companies act, a stay of proceedings took effect whereby no action or

proceeding could be proceeded with except with leave of court. pursuant to

s 334(1) of the companies act, the appellant would not be entitled to

retain the benefit of the attachment as against the liquidator, unless the

court ordered otherwise. the appellant thus filed an application to the

high court for leave to proceed with the garnishee proceedings and to be

allowed to retain the benefit of the attachment as against the liquidator.



decision on appeal



3 the court of appeal noted that it had previously held in



transbilt engineering pte ltd (in liquidation) v finebuild systems pte

ltd



[2005] 3 slr(r) 550 (“transbilt”) that a judgment creditor who had

obtained a garnishee order nisi was to be treated as an unsecured

creditor, and absent exceptional circumstances, was not entitled to proceed

with the incomplete attachment. the facts of the present case were

indistinguishable from transbilt (at [1] to    [2]).




4 addressing the appellant’s argument that it had become a secured creditor

by virtue of the equitable charge created in its favour when it served the

garnishee order nisi on the garnishee, the court of appeal noted

that the use of the term “equitable charge” in this context, though

well-established in case law, was liable to confuse in two respects:




5 first, it is unclear whether, and in what sense, such an equitable charge

creates a proprietary interest in the garnished debt. the term “proprietary

interest” could refer to an absolute right to have the subject property be

applied for the sole benefit of the rightholder, and which the rightholder

may assert against all third parties (“the broad definition”) (at    [17]). however, “proprietary interest” could also refer to

a less extensive right to prevent the owner from exercising his full,

unfettered right to deal with the subject property in a manner that is

inconsistent with the rightholder’s interest (“the narrow definition”) (at    [18]). it would only be correct to say that a garnishee

order nisi creates a proprietary interest according to the narrow

definition, because it merely creates an obligation on the garnishee not to

pay the attached debt to the judgment debtor in breach of the order    nisi (at [19] and [29]).




6 secondly, the use of the term “equitable charge” suggests that the holder

of such an equitable charge is akin to a person who holds an equitable

charge as security for a debt, this being the paradigmatic use of a charge

(at [22]). however, the equitable charge created upon

service of the garnishee order nisi is materially different from

an equitable charge which creates security for the repayment of a debt.

where the equitable charge is used to create security for repayment, the

creditor is given the right to resort to the property to satisfy the debt

on the condition that it remains unpaid, and this condition is necessarily

fulfilled in every situation where the creditor seeks to enforce its

security. on the other hand, where an equitable charge arises from a

garnishee order nisi, the judgment creditor is given only a

contingent right to resort to the property, depending on whether some good

cause may be shown otherwise. whether such “good cause” may be shown is a

future contingency, and where the judgment debtor is placed under winding

up before the show cause hearing, this future contingency is thwarted. such

a judgment creditor is not in the same position as a secured creditor who

has already accrued an entitlement to have the charged property of the

debtor made available by virtue of the debtor’s default in repayment (at    [22] to [25]).




7 since the true effect of service of a garnishee order nisi is

merely that it prevents the garnishee from dealing with the debt in a way

that is inconsistent with the order, it does not create any security

interest which would render the appellant a secured creditor (at    [30]).




8 there were no operative equities which would move the court to exercise

its discretion to grant the appellant leave to proceed with the garnishing

process. the mere fact that the appellant had effected service of the

garnishee order nisi could not justify the granting of leave. to

hold otherwise would run contrary to the provisions of the companies act

which provide that the benefit of an attachment could only be retained by

the creditor if the attachment is complete before the company is placed

under winding up (s 334(1)(c)), and such attachment is only deemed

complete when the debt is actually received (s 334(2)(b)) (at    [32]). a judgment creditor would need to show some form of

inequity to justify the granting of leave, and this was a high threshold

which the appellant had not met (at [34]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.