supreme court of singapore



5 december 2018



case summary




mohamed affandi bin rosli v public prosecutor and another appeal [2018]

sgca 87




criminal appeals no 38 and 39 of 2017



____________________________________________________________________





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh

menon on behalf of senior judge chao hick tin and himself, with judge

of appeal tay yong kwang dissenting)





outcome: coa (by a 2:1 majority) allows appeal by two appellants against hc

decision to convict both on charges of trafficking of diamorphine and

abetting by instigation of the same respectively; prosecution failed to

establish beyond reasonable doubt the actual chain of custody of the drug

exhibits from the point of seizure to the point of analysis by the hsa.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment





    it was incumbent on the prosecution to first establish the chain of

    custody of the exhibits beyond reasonable doubt, and to account for

    the movement of the exhibits from the point of seizure to the point

    of analysis. it would then be for the defence to suggest that there

    was a break in the chain of custody by raising reasonable doubt as

    to whether the chain of custody had been broken: at            [39] and [118].

    




    it is a fundamental requirement of fairness in our system of

    criminal justice that the accused is clear as to what that case is.

    hence, the prosecution could not discharge its burden of

    establishing the chain of custody of the exhibits by leading

    evidence in support of a range of options, which were inconsistent

    with one another, and then inviting the court to choose that which

    it wished. not only would that be completely inconsistent with the

    way facts were to be found, it was fundamentally unfair to the

    accused who would be left to face a shifting case with moving

    parts: at [52].

    

background to the appeal







    the appellants, mohamed affandi bin rosli (“affandi”) and

    mohamad fadzli bin ahmad (“fadzli”), faced various drug-related

    charges, two of which carry the mandatory death penalty.

    affandi was charged with possession, for the purpose of

    trafficking, of not less than 132.82g of diamorphine, an

    offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the misuse

    of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“the mda”). fadzli was

    charged with abetting by instigating affandi to commit the

    above, an offence under

    s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) and s 12 of the mda. the high

    court judge (“the judge”) convicted both on these two charges and

    sentenced them to death. both appealed against their convictions.

    

the material facts





    on 12 july 2013, eight bundles wrapped in black tape (“the black

    bundles”) were found in affandi’s car, and they were later found to

    contain the aforementioned diamorphine. fadzli was arrested on the

    same day. in affandi’s contemporaneous statement (“p105”) and

    cautioned statement (“p115”), affandi claimed that it was fadzli

    who instructed him to collect the black bundles. he subsequently

    claimed to have done it on the instructions of one “mamak”, and

    that he had implicated fadzli in the earlier statements because he

    was scared and confused, and because a central narcotics bureau

    (‘cnb”) officer was “pressurizing” him.

    




    fadzli denied knowledge of the drugs or of what affandi did. in

    fadzli’s contemporaneous statement (“p106a”), he claimed to not

    recognise affandi when he was shown a digital photo of him, though

    he readily identified and acknowledged that he knew affandi when

    subsequent statements were recorded. further, in a statement taken

    on 16 july 2013 (“p119”), fadzli inserted a handwritten amendment

    to the original version of the statement indicating that he “was

    not known as abut to anyone”. “abut” was the name that affandi used

    to address fadzli. fadzli subsequently explained at trial that he

    meant to say that he was not known as abut to anyone            except his friends and family members.

    




    the judge found that the two charges were made out, and imposed the

    mandatory death sentence on both appellants.

    




    on appeal, affandi focused solely on attacking the integrity of the

    chain of custody of the exhibits. he argued that there were two

    weaknesses in the chain. first, there were differing accounts as to

    who in the arresting party had possession of the exhibits from the

    time they were seized until they were handed over to the

    investigating officer (“io”). second, after the io took possession

    of the exhibits, she did not lock them in her safe, but left them

    on the floor of her office instead.

    




    fadzli associated himself with the arguments made by affandi on

    appeal, and further submitted that the version of events set out in

    p105 and p115 could not be relied upon as they contained assertions

    that were untrue or suspicious. further, fadzli argued that it was

    unsafe for the judge to conclude that he had been lying in p106a

    given that the judge had no frame of reference to compare the photo

    to. in addition, fadzli claimed that he had made a genuine mistake

    when amending his statement in p119.

    




    the prosecution submitted that there was no break in the chain of

    custody of the exhibits. the prosecution premised its case against

    fadzli on version of events set out in p105 and p115, and on what

    they alleged to be lies in p106a and p119.

    



    the decision of the majority (delivered by chief justice

    sundaresh menon on behalf of senior judge chao hick tin and

    himself)

    





    the majority allowed both appeals and set aside the convictions of

    both affandi and fadzli on their respective capital charges. the

    primary finding was that the prosecution failed to establish the

    chain of custody of the relevant exhibits: at            [57] and [100].

    

the integrity of the chain of custody





    it was incumbent on the prosecution to first establish the chain of

    custody of the exhibits beyond reasonable doubt, and to account for

    the movement of the exhibits from the point of seizure to the point

    of analysis. it would then be for the defence to suggest that there

    was a break in the chain of custody by raising reasonable doubt as

    to whether the chain of custody had been broken. the prosecution

    could not discharge its burden by leading evidence in support of a

    range of options, which were inconsistent with one another, and

    then inviting the court to choose that which it wished. not only

    would that be completely inconsistent with the way facts were to be

    found, it was fundamentally unfair to the accused who would be left

    to face a shifting case with moving parts: at            [39] and [52].

    




    during the course of the trial, two inconsistent narratives emerged

    as to how the drugs were handled by officers in the arresting

    party. in particular, there were inconsistencies as to where the

    drug exhibits were or who held the exhibits: (a) when the cnb

    operational vehicle was on the move between affandi’s workplace,

    his flat and the woodlands checkpoint; (b) when the arresting party

    was searching affandi’s flat; (c) when backscatter and k-9 searches

    were conducted on affandi’s vehicle; and (d) after the arresting

    party returned to cnb headquarters. neither of these two complete

    and mutually exclusive chains of custody of exhibits was

    established beyond a reasonable doubt. each raised a reasonable

    doubt as to the other in relation to the manner in which the black

    bundles were seized from the accused and then passed to the cnb

    headquarters and the hsa. given that there were two irreconcilable

    narratives on the evidence, the prosecution had not properly strung

    a chain of custody: at [48] and             [51].

    




    affandi’s second argument was speculative as the io’s office was

    locked and even though the keys to her office were centrally

    available, there was a clear protocol to be followed – the io’s

    personal authorisation was required before anybody else could enter

    the office. during the period in question, no one had requested

    such access, and there was nothing to suggest that the protocol had

    been compromised: at [56].

    

the version of events in p105 and p115





    there were three factors that gave rise to a reasonable doubt as to

    whether fadzli was the mastermind behind affandi’s involvement in

    the trafficking of the seized diamorphine. first, the amount of

    seized diamorphine was sizeable but on the available evidence,

    fadzli did not even check on the black bundles when he met affandi

    on 12 july 2013. secondy, affandi had direct access to one “mamak”,

    who was identified by the prosecution to be fadzli’s drug supplier.

    but if mamak was content to contact affandi directly, fadzli would

    have been superfluous and nothing was advanced to explain this and

    in particular to explain what his role was. third, affandi

    subsequently said that what he had said in p105 and p115, which was

    the sole basis of the case against fadzli, was untrue, and that he

    had been acting on the directions of mamak instead. even though the

    court would nonetheless be permitted to rely on such withdrawn

    statements, the fact that the statements were retracted gave rise

    to the need to subject such statements to “painstaking if not

    relentless scrutiny”, and to assess the evidence carefully in order

    to consider whether it is nonetheless reliable having regard to all

    the circumstances of the case. this was especially relevant in the

    present case where the judge harboured concerns over affandi’s

    credibility and where the prosecution had also accepted that mamak

    was in fact affandi’s supplier of the drugs: at            [62]–[64].

    




    there were numerous inconsistencies and difficulties with p105 and

    p115. first, affandi claimed to have collected the diamorphine from

    the heavy vehicle carpark near ten mile junction but he changed his

    account several times and his vehicle was not captured in cctv

    footage of the area during the material period. second, affandi

    claimed to have used the word “panas” despite not knowing what it

    meant because he overheard one of the arresting officers using it.

    this was simply untenable. third, in p105, affandi mentioned

    receiving a loan of $1,500 but later, in p115, claimed to receive

    remuneration of $400–$500 per collection. finally, in p105, affandi

    claimed that the present case was the first time he received drugs

    on behalf of fadzli but later, in p115, claimed to have been doing

    it for a month at a frequency of once or twice a week: at            [67]–[69].

    




    the prosecution could not rely on the alleged lies in p106a and

    p119. in relation to the failure to recognise affandi from the

    photographs shown to him, the judge had not satisfactorily

    established for himself a proper frame of reference within which he

    could assess fadzli’s evidence. there was no direct evidence as to

    exactly which photo was shown. moreover, none of the photos before

    the judge were in a digital form. moreover, fadzli was quick to

    acknowledge that he knew affandi when subsequent statements were

    taken from him. it therefore did not seem that fadzli had any real

    desire to distance himself from affandi. in relation to the

    statement that he was not known as “abut”, it did not seem to be

    the case that fadzli was trying to dissociate himself from affandi

    by making this statement given that he had not denied knowing and

    meeting affandi in his cautioned statement given three days

    earlier: at [84], [85] and             [91].

    




    it was inconclusive that there were communications between affandi

    and fadzli in the early morning of 12 july 2013 as there was also a

    heightened level of communication between affandi and mamak during

    that period. it was equally plausible that mamak and affandi were

    in touch for the delivery of the bundles, and that fadzli was not

    involved: at [97]–[99].

    



    decision of the minority (delivered by judge of appeal tay yong

    kwang)

    





    tay yong kwang ja dismissed both appeals and affirmed the decision

    of the judge in convicting both appellants on their respective

    capital charges. there was no break in the chain of custody of the

    drug exhibits and fadzli was found correctly to have abetted

    affandi by instigating him to be in possession of the seized

    diamorphine for the purpose of trafficking. tay ja also affirmed

    the judge’s decision to impose the mandatory death sentence on both

    appellants: at [106], [117] and            [176].

    




    whether there was a break in the chain of custody of the

    exhibits

    






    the prosecution bore the burden of proving beyond reasonable doubt

    that the drug exhibits seized by the cnb officers were the

    substances eventually analysed by the hsa, and where there was a

    break in the chain of custody such that a reasonable doubt arose as

    to the identity of the drug exhibits, the prosecution would not

    have discharged this burden. however, speculative arguments

    regarding the mere possibility of contamination will not be

    sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt as to the identity of the

    exhibits: at [118].

    




    affandi’s two arguments regarding the chain of custody of the

    exhibits fell within the realm of speculation and did not rise to

    the level of creating a reasonable doubt as to the identity of the

    seized drug exhibits. first, the two inconsistent narratives

    provided by the relevant cnb officers regarding the carriage of the

    exhibits did not suggest that there was a break in the chain of

    custody of the exhibits because going by either version of events,

    there was a single unbroken chain of custody of the exhibits from

    the seizure of the exhibits to the handing over of the exhibits.

    from the moment the exhibits were seized, they were not unaccounted

    for and they remained in the custody and control of at least one

    member of the team of cnb officers. second, the argument that the

    io did not store the exhibits properly after getting custody of

    them was premised on a mere theoretical possibility of

    contamination of the exhibits, and was incapable of raising any

    reasonable doubt as to the identity of the exhibits: at[120], [122],            [123], [125].

    




    as regards the dna profiling evidence, it did not matter that

    neither affandi’s nor fadzli’s dna was found on any of the black

    bundles. there could be no doubt that the trash bag that the black

    bundles were in came from the cnb operation at mbs. as for the dna

    traces of two other persons on two of the black bundles, the mere

    fact that someone had come into contact with one or some of the

    drug exhibits could not mean that the chain of custody was thereby

    broken: at [126] and [129].

    




    whether fadzli abetted affandi by instigating him in the

    trafficking of the seized diamorphine

    






    fadzli’s claim that he had met affandi on 12 july 2013 for the sole

    purpose of collecting groceries purchased by affandi for donation

    to an orphanage was not credible. first, there was no urgent need

    for fadzli to insist on meeting affandi on 12 july 2013 to collect

    the groceries for donation during the month of ramadan because hari

    raya puasa in 2013 was about 26 days away, and the groceries

    purchased were not perishables. second, there was no good reason

    for fadzli to travel to affandi’s workplace in town just to collect

    goods for donation because both affandi and fadzli lived in the

    east, and the orphanage was also in the east: at            [133]–[136].

    




    p105 and p115 constituted reliable evidence of fadzli’s guilt.

    





        confessions that have been retracted could still be used

        against a co-accused, depending on whether the witness

        retracting his statement can give a reasonable and reliable

        explanation for his retraction. affandi’s reasons for

        retracting p105 and p115 should be rejected. among other

        things, affandi was lucid and had a clear mind when

        providing those statements, appeared to give those

        statements under no stress or pressure, and had no reason

        to implicate a close friend even if he wanted to provide

        substantive assistance by identifying someone falsely as

        having greater involvement in the drug activities: at[140], [141] and                    [145].

        




        the inconsistencies between p105 and p115 did not affect

        the core of those statements, which comprised the following

        common facts: (i) fadzli was the one who instructed affandi

        to collect the bundles of “panas”; (ii) affandi would

        collect and safekeep the bundles for fadzli; (iii) affandi

        needed money; and (iv) money was passed by fadzli to

        affandi for doing these tasks. these facts were sufficient

        to implicate fadzli: at [149].

        




        p105 and p115 were not contradicted materially by objective

        evidence. first, although the telephone records showed that

        affandi had direct contact with mamak previously, in the

        absence of information as to the contents of the calls,

        they were not capable of showing that fadzli did not

        instigate affandi to possess the seized diamorphine for the

        purpose of trafficking. second, the telephone records

        showed that there had been constant communication between

        affandi and fadzli after affandi had collected the drugs.

        third, although the fact that affandi’s car was not

        captured on the cctv at the relevant junction at the

        material time contradicted affandi’s account of the route

        he took as presented in p105, this inconsistency did not

        materially affect the rest of p105. finally, there was

        strong forensic evidence that corroborated p105: at[150], [152],                    [157]–[159].

        





    the two lies told by fadzli were capable of corroborating the

    evidence that supported the finding that fadzli was guilty of the

    offence as charged. first, fadzli clearly told a lucas lie

    when he said he did not recognise affandi in the photo while p106

    was being recorded. this lie was in relation to a material issue of

    whether fadzli knew affand, and fadzli told this lie deliberately

    and was motivated by a desire to dissociate himself from affandi

    because his explanation for his failure to recognise affandi was

    unbelievable. second, fadzli also told a lucas lie when

    adding the statement that he “was not known as abut to anyone” in

    p119 because there was absolutely no reason for him to volunteer

    this statement. the clear inference to be drawn from this

    deliberate and unsolicited insertion in p119 was that fadzli was

    trying to distance himself from affandi and the drugs that were

    still in affandi’s custody: at [163],[167], [168] and            [172].

    







this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgments. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgments.