supreme court of singapore



24 october 2018



case summary




re nalpon, zero geraldo mario




[2018] sgca 71




civil appeal no 197 of 2017





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice judith prakash):





outcome: coa dismissed lawyer zero nalpon’s appeal for leave to

bring judicial review proceedings against a decision made by the law

society of singapore. mr nalpon had complained against three lawyers who

were his opposing counsel in a lawsuit but the complaint was dismissed by

the law society.



 


background to the appeal



1 civil appeal no 197 of 2017 was an appeal by zero geraldo mario nalpon

(“the appellant”) against the decision of the trial judge (“the judge”) in    re nalpon, zero geraldo mario [2017] sghc 301.



facts



2 the appellant is a practising lawyer. in may 2017, he lodged a complaint

with the law society of singapore against three other lawyers who were his

opposing counsel in a lawsuit in the high court (“the lawyers”). the

appellant alleged that the lawyers had, amongst other things, misled the

court, suppressed evidence and assisted their client to give false

information in court.




3 in accordance with the law society’s usual procedure, the complaint was

referred to a review committee for examination. the review committee

dismissed the complaint and stated in its letter to the appellant that the

information and documents provided by the appellant did not provide any

support for his complaint. the appellant was dissatisfied with this

decision and applied to the high court for leave to commence judicial

review proceedings in respect of the review committee’s decision. the

appellant argued that the decision of the review committee was so

unreasonable that no reasonable person who applies his mind to the question

to be decided would have arrived at the same decision.




4 the judge dismissed the appellant’s application and declined to grant

leave to commence judicial review proceedings. the judge found that the

appellant had not established an arguable or prima facie case for

the granting of leave for judicial review. this was because the sensible

inference to be drawn from the review committee’s letter was that it had

properly considered the complaint and found no basis for the appellant’s

grievance. the judge also found that there were reasonable grounds to

support the review committee’s decision, in particular that the issue was a

matter that the appellant could pursue at the trial of the suit.



 


 


decision on appeal



5 the court of appeal dismissed the appellant’s appeal.




6 the court of appeal noted that there were three requirements that the

appellant had to fulfil to be granted leave to start judicial review

proceedings: he must have standing, the decision he is challenging must be

susceptible to judicial review and there must be a prima facie

case of reasonable suspicion that he will succeed on the main application

(at [20]). only the last was in issue in the present

appeal.




7 the court of appeal found that, in order to substantiate his complaint,

the appellant could not simply furnish the law society with the documents

that he believed showed that the lawyers and their client had lied to the

court. instead, he had to give the review committee some evidence to

support the contention that the lawyers were aware of and complicit in that

lie, that they were going beyond their duty to make the best possible case

for their client, and instead were knowingly advancing a false rather than

a flawed case (at [30]). the court of appeal observed that

the appellant had not done so; the appellant did not point out

incontrovertible evidence or documents that flew in the face of the

instructions given by the client to the lawyers in his complaint letter to

the law society (at [31]). the court of appeal also found

that the appellant’s complaint letter lacked focus and failed to draw

attention to the key documents in the bundle that the appellant considered

supported his complaint (at [32]). rather, all the review

committee had before it were the bare documents without explanation or,

indeed, a clear submission from the appellant as to how the lawyers were

knowingly misleading the court (at [36]). the court of

appeal explained that just because a set of facts is affirmed as true and

adduced in court and, subsequently, the court has made a finding that those

facts were untrue, it does not follow that the counsel who presented the

case for the “untruthful” party had themselves lied or misled the court.

this is because by profession, counsel have to advocate a certain version

of events in the face of contradictory evidence adduced by the other party

(at [37]). lastly, the court of appeal held that the

appellant’s allegation that the lawyers had suppressed evidence was a bare

one that was not substantiated by the documents submitted by the appellant

(at [38]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.