supreme court of singapore



3 october 2018



case summary


zainal bin hamad v public prosecutor 

[2018] sgca 62





criminal appeals nos 48 and 49 of 2017



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh

menon):





outcome: coa upholds death penalty for two accused persons for

drug trafficking; gives guidance to prosecution and defence for cases

potentially involving presumptions in ss 17 & 18 of the misuse of drugs

act



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· the presumption under s 17 of the mda cannot run together with the

presumption under either s 18(1) or s 18(2) of the mda (at    [38] and [45]–[47]).




· the presumption under s 17 of the mda can only be invoked if both the

fact of physical possession and the fact of knowledge have been proved (at    [49]–[51]).




· in future cases where the presumptions under ss 17 and 18 of the mda are

potentially applicable, it is incumbent on the prosecution to state clearly

which presumption(s) it relies on as its primary case when advancing its

case in the trial court and on appeal (at [52]–[53]).



 


background to the appeal



1 these were appeals by zainal bin hamad (“zainal”) and rahmat bin karimon

(“rahmat”) against their respective convictions on one charge of

trafficking in not less than 53.64g of diamorphine.



facts



2 on 27 may 2015, rahmat delivered a green bag to zainal and collected a

sum of $8,000 from zainal in return. when rahmat left, zainal moved the

green bag to a location in a warehouse behind some pallets where it could

not readily be seen. zainal was arrested at the warehouse and the green bag

was found to contain not less than 53.64g of diamorphine. rahmat was

arrested at the checkpoint with the sum of $8,000.




3 zainal and rahmat were jointly tried in the high court, each on one

charge of trafficking in not less than 53.64g of diamorphine. zainal’s case

was that he had expected rahmat to deliver 20 cartons of cigarettes and

thus paid the sum of $8,000 for those cigarettes. however, he knew that the

green bag could not physically contain the 20 cartons of cigarettes, and

had thus placed it behind the pallets so that it could be retrieved and

returned to rahmat when the latter returned. rahmat’s case was that he

believed that he was transporting medicines. the trial judge (“the judge”)

convicted both zainal and rahmat and imposed the mandatory sentence of

death on both as no certificate of substantive assistance was provided.








 


decision on appeal



4 the court of appeal dismissed both zainal’s and rahmat’s appeals (at    [8] and [36]).




5 zainal’s appeal was advanced on the basis that he did not have possession

of the drugs, and in the alternative, he had rebutted the presumption under

s 18(2) of the mda that he knew the nature of the drugs (at    [8]).




6 the court rejected zainal’s submissions in relation to possession. by

taking control of the green bag without taking any steps to inspect it,

zainal was taken to be in possession not only of the bag but also its

contents. it was then incumbent on him to adduce evidence to raise a

reasonable doubt and to show that he reasonably ought not be taken to be in

possession of the contents of the bag. however, his case was in essence a

bare denial since he claimed that he did not know or care what was in the

green bag and he paid the money for uncustomed cigarettes. this was not

sufficient to raise even a reasonable doubt especially since his account

did not sit well with his own statements to the investigators and the

objective facts (at [9]–[19]). the court observed that it

would also have been open to the prosecution to rely on the presumption of

possession by virtue of s 18(1)(a) of the mda, which was not

rebutted (at [21]–[22]).




7 for the same reasons, the court was also satisfied that zainal had not

displaced the presumption under s 18(2) of the mda that he knew the nature

of the drugs, and in any event, he would have been proved to have had

knowledge of the nature of the drugs even if the presumption did not apply

(at [23]–[26]).




8 no arguments were raised on appeal with respect to the question of

whether zainal possessed the drugs for the purpose of trafficking. however,

the court was satisfied that the presumption of trafficking under s 17(    c) of the mda applied since zainal was proved to be in possession

of the drugs and had knowledge of the nature of the drugs, and nothing had

been advanced to rebut this presumption. in any event, zainal would have

been proved to have possessed the drugs for the purpose of trafficking

given the quantity of the drugs involved and the fact that he had

previously been in the business of selling diamorphine (at    [27]–[29]).




9 rahmat’s appeal was advanced on the basis that he had rebutted the

presumption of knowledge under s 18(2) of the mda. the court also dismissed

his appeal. rahmat’s explanation that he had delivered medicines for one

“kanna” in exchange for an interest-free loan was incredible, given that

kanna ran an illegal moneylending business and did not have a deep history

of close friendship with rahmat. rahmat’s explanation also contradicted his

statements to the police and was further inconsistent with how he had

delivered the green bag and passed the sum of $8,000 to his wife to hide in

her underclothes. it was also inconceivable that anyone would pay $8,000

for the delivery of one bag of medicines (at [33]–[36]).



guidance for the prosecution and defence for future cases



10 the court established the following propositions with respect to the

presumptions under ss 17 (of trafficking), 18(1) (of possession) and 18(2)

(of knowledge) of the mda:




(a) the presumptions under ss 17 and 18(1) could not run together because

the former only applied where possession was proved, whereas if the latter

provision was invoked, its effect was to give rise to a presumption (and

not proof) of the fact of possession (at [38]).




(b) the presumptions under ss 17 and 18(2) also could not run together. the

statutory scheme of the mda made clear that s 18(2) was to operate as an

ancillary provision to s 18(1), in the sense that where an accused was in

physical control of an object, the prosecution may rely on s 18 as a whole

to invoke a presumption of possession and also of knowledge of what it was

that the accused was in possession of. section 18 as a whole thus dealt

with the issue of knowing possession. section 17 on the other hand was a

distinct provision concerned with the question of the purpose for which the

accused has possession of the item in question (at    [39]–[47]).




(c) the presumption under s 17 of the mda could only be invoked if both the

fact of physical possession of the drugs and the fact of knowledge of what

was being possessed had been proved. this was because the presumption of

trafficking could be invoked once the premise of s 17 was proved; no other

elements of the offence needed to be proved. it would follow from this that

the premise in s 17 extended to both the fact of physical possession and

the element of knowledge (at [49]–[51]).




11 given these propositions, the court noted that in future cases such as

this, it would be incumbent on the prosecution to make clear which

presumption(s) it relied on when advancing its case in the trial court and

on appeal. this would assist the trial and appeal courts in assessing

whether the prosecution’s case was made out. more fundamentally, it would

give the accused a fair chance of knowing the case that was advanced

against him and what evidence he had to adduce (and to what standard of

proof) in order to meet that case. it would not be sufficient for the

prosecution to simply state, for instance, that the elements of possession

of the drugs, knowledge of the nature of the drugs and possession for the

purpose of trafficking have either been proved or presumed without making

clear the precise nature of the primary case that was being put against the

accused (at [52]–[53]).




12 in the present case, the court did not receive such assistance from the

prosecution. ultimately, it made no difference to the outcome in this case

as the court agreed with the judge that all three elements of the offence

in relation to zainal were proved on the evidence before the court and that

the presumptions under ss 17 and 18 could also apply whether the

prosecution relied on the presumptions under either ss 17 or 18 of the mda.

however, it would still be important in future cases for the prosecution to

state clearly which presumption(s) it relied on as its primary case as it

could potentially be prejudicial to the accused given a different set of

facts (at [53]–[55]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the

corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.