supreme court of singapore



3 october 2018



case summary


mui jia jun v public prosecutor

[2018] sgca 59




criminal appeal no 17 of 2017





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh

menon):





outcome:



coa orders retrial to afford accused a full opportunity to meet the

prosecution’s case against him on appeal, which the prosecution had not

clearly articulated at the trial.




pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· in joint trials, trial courts must exercise great care in making findings

in favour of one accused person which may implicitly amount to findings in

favour of the prosecution where its case against the other accused

person(s) is concerned (at [70]).




· in the context of a criminal trial, a trial court should generally not

make a finding that resolves against the accused what would otherwise

amount to a vital weakness in the prosecution’s case when the prosecution

itself has not sought to address that weakness by leading evidence and

making submissions to support such a finding (at [72]).




· in cases where the prosecution advances a composite case comprising

several facets and it would not be reasonably clear to the accused, absent

an express statement to this effect, that the prosecution is seeking a

conviction based on any individual facet of its case, it may be prudent for

the prosecution to make this explicit. the prosecution may do so either in

the charge or in its opening address at the trial, or by any other written

means (at [95]).



background to the appeal



1 this was an appeal by mui jia jun (“the appellant”) against his

conviction on two counts of trafficking in controlled drugs in furtherance

of a common intention.


the material facts



2 on 21 february 2014, the appellant’s co-accused (“tan”) was arrested by

officers from the central narcotics bureau (“the cnb”) after he had

delivered three bundles of drugs to a third party. seven other bundles of

drugs were found in his possession. each of these ten bundles of drugs

(“the ten bundles”) had been covered with cling wrap, with several layers

of black tape applied over the whole of the cling wrap. 



3 several weeks later, the appellant was arrested by officers from the cnb

after follow-up investigations subsequent to a separate arrest. 



4 the appellant was tried with tan in the high court on two counts of

trafficking in controlled drugs in furtherance of their common intention.

the prosecution’s case against the appellant comprised a single narrative

with two intertwined facets. the first was that on the morning of tan’s

arrest, the appellant had handed tan a “jorano” bag (“the jorano bag of

drugs”) with the ten bundles already inside and pre-packed. on this

narrative, tan had not previously packed any of the ten bundles before

receiving them from the appellant, and had handled these bundles only to

the extent of separating them for their intended recipients. the second

facet was that the appellant had allegedly sent tan text messages which

contained instructions regarding the delivery of the drugs (“the delivery

messages”). 



5 critically, at the trial, the prosecution did not advance the two

individual facets of its case as independent bases for convicting the

appellant. more specifically, the prosecution did not advance the case that

even if the appellant had not given tan the jorano bag of drugs, he should

be convicted on the sole basis that he had sent tan the delivery messages

(“the alternative case”). 



6 the trial judge (“the judge”) convicted both tan and the appellant of the

charges against them. the appellant then appealed against his conviction

and sentence.



7 after the first hearing of the appeal on 30 november 2017, the

prosecution, in response to queries raised by the court of appeal, accepted

in its further submissions that there was a reasonable doubt as to whether

the appellant had given tan the jorano bag of drugs, the first facet of its

case at the trial.


the decision on appeal



8 the court of appeal allowed the appeal to the extent that it ordered the

matter to be retried before another high court judge, where the prosecution

would be confined to mounting its case against the appellant on the basis

that he had sent tan the delivery messages (at [94] and    [97]).




9 in coming to its decision, the court of appeal first held that, as the

prosecution had rightly, albeit belatedly, conceded, there was a reasonable

doubt as to whether the appellant had given tan the jorano bag of drugs (at    [79]). it noted that tan’s dna was found on the adhesive

side of the tape (“area 3”) on five of the ten bundles (at    [60]). in the absence of some reasonable explanation for

this, the only plausible reason was that contrary to tan’s evidence that he

had not been involved in preparing or packing any of the ten bundles, he

had actually been involved in this regard (at [61]). the

presence of tan’s dna on area 3 on five of the ten bundles therefore

created a reasonable doubt over his account that on the morning of his

arrest, the appellant had given him the jorano bag of drugs with the ten

bundles already inside and pre-packed (at [63]).




10 the judge had reasoned that tan might have left his dna on the adhesive

side of edges of tape sticking out of the ends of two of the five aforesaid

bundles when he was handling those two bundles for delivery. this reasoning

was flawed for two reasons. first, there was simply no adequate evidential

basis for it. although the judge justified his analysis on the basis that

he was giving tan the benefit of the doubt, his approach in fact implicitly

gave the benefit of that doubt to the prosecution for the purposes of its

case against the appellant, which could not be accepted (at    [67]). second, during the trial, the prosecution did not

seek to advance any explanation as to why tan’s dna was found on area 3 on

five of the ten bundles. the judge was not entitled to fill in this

significant lacuna in the prosecution’s case even assuming he had some

evidentiary basis to do so (at [71]). in the context of a

criminal trial, a trial court should generally not make a finding that

resolved against the accused what would otherwise amount to a vital

weakness in the prosecution’s case when the prosecution itself had not

sought to address that weakness by leading evidence and making submissions

to support such a finding (at [72]). this conclusion

followed from the requirement that the prosecution must prove the guilt of

the accused beyond reasonable doubt (at [73]). further,

fairness to the accused demanded that he should have the opportunity to

address every vital aspect of the factual basis on which he was convicted.

adopting a case theory that the accused did not have the chance to rebut

would be fundamentally unfair to him (at [77]).




11 the court of appeal then held that it would not proceed to assess

whether, on the evidence before the court, the prosecution had proved

beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant had sent tan the delivery

messages (at [81]). in seeking to uphold the appellant’s

conviction on this basis, the prosecution was relying on the alternative

case. however, the prosecution had not clearly advanced that case at the

trial, and the evidence might have emerged differently if the prosecution

had done so (at [87]–[88]). it was a fundamental principle

of our criminal law that an accused person should know with certainty, and

thus be prepared to meet, the prosecution’s case against him. it would

violate that principle if a court were to consider a basis for convicting

an accused that he was not aware of and thus was not ready to meet at his

trial, in circumstances where knowledge of that basis for conviction might

have affected the evidence at the trial (at [89]).




12 in the circumstances, the appropriate order in respect of the appeal was

a retrial of the matter before another high court judge, where the

prosecution would be confined to mounting its case against the appellant on

the basis that he had sent tan the delivery messages (at    [94] and [97]).




13 in closing, the court of appeal pointed out that in cases such as the

present where the prosecution advanced a composite case comprising several

facets and it would not be reasonably clear to the accused, absent an

express statement to this effect, that the prosecution was seeking a

conviction based on any individual facet of its case, it might be prudent

for the prosecution to make this explicit. the prosecution could do so

either in the charge or in its opening address at the trial, or by any

other written means (at [95]).





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.