supreme court of singapore



29 august 2018



case summary


bml v comptroller of income tax 

[2018] sgca 53




civil appeal no 119 of 2017





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by tay yong kwang ja):





outcome: coa affirmed comptroller’s decision to deny interest

deduction to taxpayer who made bond issue to shareholders following capital

reduction.



 


the material facts



1 the present appeal concerned the issue of deductibility of interest paid

on a bond issued by a taxpayer (“the taxpayer”) to its shareholders (“the

shareholders”) in the course of a capital restructuring exercise. at the

material time, the taxpayer owned and operated a mall. the shareholders

each owned 50% of the taxpayer’s issued share capital. in 2004, the

taxpayer conducted a securitisation of the mall followed by a capital

restructuring exercise which was effected in two steps: (a) a capital

reduction exercise (“the capital reduction exercise”) and (b) a bond issue

to the shareholders (“the shareholder bonds”). in effect, this capital

restructuring exercise converted the shareholders’ equity in the taxpayer

into a debt investment.




2 between 2005 and 2009, the taxpayer paid interest of 7.1% per annum to

the shareholders on the shareholder bonds, amounting to a total of

s$95,673,181 (“the interest expense”). the taxpayer sought to deduct the

interest expense from its chargeable income in the years of assessment 2005

to 2009, relying on s 14(1)(a) of the income tax act (cap 134,

2014 rev ed) (“ita”). the comptroller of income tax (“cit”) disallowed the

deductions, and the taxpayer objected. the income tax board of review

(“itbr”) and the high court respectively upheld the cit’s decision.




3 the taxpayer appealed. before the court of appeal, the issue was whether

the shareholder bonds constituted “capital employed in acquiring the

income” of the taxpayer such that the interest expense incurred on them was

deductible under s 14(1)(a) of the ita.



decision on appeal



4 the court of appeal dismissed the taxpayer’s appeal and held that the

interest expense was not deductible.




5 in order to satisfy s 14(1)(a) of the ita, there must be a

direct link between the money borrowed and the income produced (at [    39]). this direct link test found support in at least

three court of appeal decisions and there was no indication of any desire

or need for it to be departed from (at [44]). the test is

also grounded in the statutory language of s 14(1)(a) and in

particular, the words “capital employed in acquiring the income” (at [    48]). in the court’s judgment, although the test may apply

in different ways to different sets of facts, it is a test of general

application under s 14(1)(a) of the ita and it also applied to the

present case (at [46]).




6 in applying the direct link test, a causal inquiry is necessary for the

satisfaction of the test (at [51]). this causal aspect of

the test is not incompatible with the scheme of the ita (at [    52]).




7 it was not clear what the taxpayer meant by its submission that

deductions should be allowed of interest paid on a loan that “represented”

its income-producing assets (at [57]). in any event, this

test of representation is not compatible with the language of s 14(1)(    a) which connotes an active nexus between the loan and the income

acquired (at [63]); is not compatible with the term “the

income” in s 14(1)(a) which connotes a clear nexus between the

capital and the particular source of income from which a deduction is

sought to be made (at [64]); and places undue reliance on

the balance sheet of the taxpayer (at [65]). it is also

not supported by the local or foreign case authorities cited by the

taxpayer (at [80]).




8 further, the taxpayer’s submission that capital would be “employed in

acquiring the income” within the meaning of s 14(1)(a) if the

taxpayer’s income-producing asset were preserved or retained by such

capital was not made out on the evidence. to say that a loan retained or

preserved certain income-producing assets implies that there must have been

at least a material risk of the assets being sold, realised, or otherwise

taken away from the taxpayer if the loan was not taken out (at [    85]). on the evidence, it was clear that there was no

material risk that the taxpayer’s income-producing assets would have been

taken away if the shareholder bonds had not been issued (at [    86]).




9 the taxpayer’s appeal was therefore dismissed. costs of $20,000 inclusive

of disbursements were ordered in favour of the cit (at [    100]).



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.