supreme court of singapore



28 august 2018



case summary




cicada cube pte ltd v national university hospital (singapore) pte ltd



civil appeal nos 138 and 139 of 2016





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice of appeal tay

yong kwang):





outcome: coa dismisses appeals and clarifies the principles and procedures

applicable to determinations of patent entitlement.



background to the appeal



1 these are cross-appeals relating to the ownership of a patent (“the

patent”). the patent relates to a system which allows patient specimens to

be ordered and collected in an automated manner for laboratory testing,

thereby reducing human error. both parties, namely cicada cube pte ltd

(“cicada”) and national university hospital (singapore) pte ltd (“nuh”),

worked together to develop this system. cicada applied for and was granted

the patent in 2010. nuh challenged cicada’s entitlement to the patent

through a reference (“the reference”) to the registrar of patents (“the

registrar”) and subsequently to the high court under s 47 of the patents

act (cap 221, 2005 rev ed) (“the act”).




2 the high court found that both parties contributed to the invention and

were entitled jointly to the patent. both parties appealed to the court of

appeal contending that only their respective employees were responsible for

the heart of the invention in the patent, thereby entitling them to sole

ownership of the patent. the court of appeal dismissed both appeals.



facts



3 cicada is a software engineering company and the registered proprietor of

the patent. nuh is a company that operates a hospital. the invention in the

patent was developed as part of nuh’s project to digitise the clinical care

processes in its hospitals. in particular, nuh wanted to develop a software

to electronically process and store the data required for patient sample

collection. it appointed cicada to develop the software for this purpose.

the software was called the advanced test ordering management system

(“atoms”). from end-2004 to 2005, dr danny poo chiang choon (“dr poo”) and

dr anil kumar ratty (“dr ratty”) from cicada and dr sunil kumar sethi (“dr

sethi”) from nuh worked on this project and published various articles on

it.




4 cicada applied for and was granted the patent in 2010. the patent is

titled “laboratory specimen collection management system” and describes a

system for automation of the specimen ordering and collection process, from

the point of physician-patient contact until specimen delivery to the

laboratory. after the patent was granted to cicada, nuh challenged cicada’s

entitlement to the patent before the registrar, three days before the

expiry of two years from the date of grant for the patent. the registrar

ultimately declined to determine the reference. nuh then applied to the

high court for the determination of entitlement to the patent. the high

court held that dr poo, dr ratty and dr sethi jointly invented the patent

and therefore cicada and nuh were jointly entitled to the patent. both

parties appealed against the high court’s decision.



decision on appeal


procedure



5 as the application to the high court was made more than two years after

the date of grant of the patent, the court of appeal had to determine

whether nuh was subject to the conditional time limit in s 47(9) of the

act. section 47(9) of the act provides that the court shall not in the

exercise of “any such declaratory jurisdiction” determine patent

entitlement if proceedings in which the jurisdiction is invoked were

commenced more than two years after the date of grant of the patent, unless

the applicant can show that the registered proprietor of the patent knew at

the time of grant that he was not entitled to the patent. cicada argued

that nuh was caught by this conditional time limit, whereas nuh contended

that it was not.




6 the court of appeal held that nuh was caught by the conditional time

limit as it had commenced the high court proceedings more than two years

after the date of grant of the patent. it held that the high court and the

registrar had concurrent jurisdiction to determine patent entitlement,

meaning that parties could apply to either forum to determine this

question. if they applied to the high court after two years from the date

of grant of the patent, the high court could not determine the question

unless it was shown that the proprietor knew that he was not entitled to

the patent at date of grant or date of transfer. the same would apply even

if the parties had applied to the registrar first (within the two-year

period) and the registrar declined to determine the question. therefore, if

a party chose to apply to the registrar first and the registrar had not

made a determination by the two-year mark, it would be prudent for the

party to withdraw the reference and commence proceedings in the high court    ([44]–[47]).



7 as nuh had applied to the high court after the two-year period, it had to

show that cicada knew at the date of grant that it was not solely entitled

to the patent. on the facts, dr sethi, dr ratty and dr poo worked closely

together on the invention in the patent. they also worked jointly on

academic papers describing the invention. from this, the court of appeal

inferred that cicada knew that it was not solely entitled to the patent. it

was hence empowered to determine the question of patent entitlement    ([55]–[60]).



substantive determination



8 the court of appeal held that the substantive question of entitlement was

a two-part inquiry as to the inventive concepts in the patent, and the

inventors and owners of the patent. in identifying the inventive concepts,

the court could look at both the specifications and the claims in the

patent. it was also possible for a patent to encapsulate more than one

inventive concept. the court of appeal identified two such concepts,

namely:




a. the automatic determination and relaying of specimen requirements to the

specimen collection system by a specimen processing system that connects

the specimen test ordering system to the specimen collection system; and




b. the automatic and centralised retrieval by the specimen processing

system of all information required to be printed on a label for the use of

both the specimen taker and the laboratory analyser and the relaying of

such information by the specimen processing system to the specimen

collection system for printing on a single label    ([63]–[75], [83]).




9 on the identity of the inventors, the court of appeal found that dr

sethi, dr ratty and dr poo were the inventors as they had jointly

formulated the inventive concepts. dr sethi had materially contributed to

the various proposals and papers detailing the invention in the patent, and

dr ratty and dr poo had contributed their software expertise in an

invention that required combined input from the healthcare and software

sectors ([86]–[96]).




10 given that dr sethi, dr ratty and dr poo were the joint inventors,

cicada and nuh were jointly entitled to ownership of the patent    ([97]). the appeals were hence dismissed.





this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.