supreme court of singapore



17 august 2018



case summary




lee tat development pte ltd v management corporation strata title plan

no 301



[2018] sgca 50



civil appeal no 117 of 2017





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice andrew phang boon

leong):





the coa holds that the tort of malicious prosecution should not be extended

to civil proceedings generally, that there is no tort of abuse of process,

and that the appellant is estopped by an overruled coa decision from

bringing a claim in trespass.



background





    this appeal is about the consequences of a longstanding legal

    dispute over whether the residents of a condominium development

    called grange heights had a right of way over a strip of land to

    access a road in a prime district in the city. in 2005, the court

    of appeal held that they had such a right of way. but in 2008, the

    court of appeal overruled its 2005 decision, holding that any such

    right of way had been extinguished by law in 1976 when the two

    adjoining plots of land on which grange heights was built (lots

    111-34 and 561) were amalgamated. in the proceedings from which

    this appeal arose, the owners of the strip of land, lee tat

    development pte ltd (“lee tat”), sued the management corporation of

    grange heights (“the mcst”), claiming damages for the mcst’s (a)

    malicious prosecution of two previous actions to assert the right

    of way; (b) abuse of the court’s process, by asserting that right

    in four previous actions; (c) malicious expression of the falsehood

    that it possessed that right, on two occasions; and (d) trespass on

    lee tat’s property, by using the strip of land until the 2008

    decision was handed down in december that year.

    




    today, for the reasons summarised below, the court of appeal

    upholds the high court’s decision to dismiss all four claims. in

    particular, the court declines lee tat’s invitation to extend the

    tort of malicious prosecution to civil proceedings generally, thus

    electing not to follow two recent decisions of the uk supreme court

    and the uk judicial committee of the privy council respectively,

    both decisions notably being the result of a sharply divided coram.

    the court also declines to recognise the tort of abuse of process.

    

malicious prosecution





    the court holds that although a party is entitled to recover

    damages for the malicious prosecution of criminal proceedings

    against him, he is not entitled to recover damages for the

    malicious prosecution of civil claims against him, except in very

    limited and defined categories of cases which are not applicable to

    the present case. this is for reasons of principle and policy. (            [85] and [128])

    




    in terms of principle, essential differences between criminal and

    civil proceedings justify maintaining the distinction as to whether

    either is capable of giving rise to claims for malicious

    prosecution. in particular, the public character and the generally

    harsher consequences of criminal proceedings undergird the law’s

    recognition that those who suffer damage at the hands of

    prosecutors who abuse their function for malicious reasons deserve

    a remedy. furthermore, extending the tort to civil proceedings

    generally is inconsistent with the principle that malice is

    generally irrelevant in the context of tort law, which assumes that

    if an act is lawful, a person has the right to do it despite any

    ill motives on his part. finally, extending the tort that way would

    introduce uncertainty into cognate areas of law, such as the law of

    privilege. ([86]–[103])

    




    in terms of policy, extending the tort would undermine the

    principle of finality in the law by encouraging needless satellite

    litigation of the kind exemplified by the present case. it would

    also have a chilling effect on regular litigation by deterring

    genuine claimants from invoking the court’s jurisdiction. it would

    also be incompatible with an increasing shift towards integrating

    mediation as a method of dispute resolution into the fabric of our

    legal system. finally, there exist mechanisms in the current rules

    of civil procedure for bringing to a prompt and early end claims

    that would otherwise constitute malicious prosecutions. (            [104]–[127])

    

abuse of process





    the court considers that the torts of abuse of process and

    malicious prosecution are similar not only as to their elements but

    also as to their underlying rationale. accordingly, the policy

    reasons leading the court not to extend the latter to civil

    proceedings also compel the court not to recognise the former. in

    particular, recognising the tort of abuse of process would

    undermine the principle of finality. although a claim in the tort

    need not be brought only after conclusion of the proceedings which

    are alleged to be abusive, such a claim can still be brought many

    years after, as has been done in the present case. recognising the

    tort would also create a chilling effect for genuine litigants.

    finally, there are existing rules of civil procedure which deal

    precisely with various aspects of abuse of process of the court. (            [150]–[161])

    

malicious falsehood





    the first statement lee tat claims is a malicious falsehood asserts

    that “the estate’s owners had the right to use the road forever –

    for walking as well as for driving” and that “the residents could

    not give up the right to access because it was a valuable piece of

    land”. the second asserts that grange heights enjoyed “[c]onvenient

    access from grange road”. the court holds that both statements were

    not malicious falsehoods because they were not made with malice.

    there was no evidence that they were made with a dominant or

    improper intention to injure lee tat. further, at the time the

    statements were made, in 1997 and 2007 respectively, there were

    judicial pronouncements stating or suggesting that grange heights

    residents had a right of way over the strip of land. this militates

    against any suggestion that the mcst could not have had an honest

    belief in the truth of the statements, or that the mcst made the

    statements with reckless disregard as to their truth. (            [181]–[185])

    

trespass





    lee tat’s claim in trespass is limited to the period between

    december 2006 and december 2008 as a result of the applicable

    limitation period. this was the period between (a) when time

    started to run for limitation purposes, which was during the period

    when the court’s 2005 decision in the mcst’s favour prevailed; and

    (b) the court’s 2008 decision which found that the mcst had no

    right of way over the strip of land. the court holds that there are

    two reasons why lee tat is estopped from pursuing its claim in

    trespass in respect of this period. ([186] and            [195])

    




    the first reason is as follows. in 2008, the court set aside its

    2005 decision on the basis that in that decision, it had wrongly

    held that one of its previous decisions in this litigation, handed

    down in 1992, had determined the issue whether the right of way,

    which was granted for the benefit of only lot 111-34, extended to

    lot 561. in fact, the 1992 decision made no such determination.

    however, in setting aside the 2005 decision, the court in 2008 had

    impermissibly sidestepped the truly determinative finding in the

    2005 decision, namely, that lee tat was estopped from disputing the

    mcst’s right of way. even if the court in the 2005 decision had

    erred in so finding, that erroneous decision should have been given

    effect because of the principle of finality. thus, the court in

    2008 was wrong to have set aside the 2005 decision, as had been

    recognised in obiter dicta in an unrelated 2015 decision

    of the court,

    

    the royal bank of scotland nv (formerly known as abn amro bank

    nv) and others v tt international ltd (ntan corporation

    advisory pte ltd and others, other parties) and another appeal

    

    [2015] 5 slr 1104. however, although the court had erred in setting

    aside the 2005 decision in its 2008 decision, the latter decision

    had to be given final effect. that said, there was no reason for

    the court now to perpetuate this error by allowing lee tat to reach

    back in time to establish a claim in trespass. (            [196])

    




    second, the 2005 decision enjoys a measure of finality that enables

    the mcst now to rely on it as representing the definitive authority

    on the parties’ rights from the period of december 2006 to december

    2008. the fact is that the court is now faced with two

    contradictory but final decisions of an apex court, namely, its

    2005 decision and its 2008 decision, and the question is which

    should be given effect as between lee tat and the mcst during that

    period. the answer has to be the 2005 decision because it was the

    only decision upon which the parties during that period could have

    ordered their affairs. ([197]–[203])

    




    finally, the court holds that lee tat is unable to escape the issue

    estoppel arising from the 2005 decision. it is unable to show that

    the mcst obtained that decision by actual fraud. the only other

    recognised exception to issue estoppel is what is known as the            arnold exception, which enables a decided issue to be

    reargued if, among other things, there is no attempt to claw back

    rights or benefits that have accrued pursuant to the decision.

    however, clawing back benefits that have accrued pursuant to the

    2005 decision is precisely what lee tat is attempting to do here. (            [204]–[208])

    



    this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the

    court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

    reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square

    brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the

    court’s judgment.