supreme court of singapore13 april 2023case summarypublic prosecutor v tan chee beng [2023] sghc 93--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the high court (delivered by justice vincent hoong:outcome: mr tan chee beng (‘the accused”) was sentenced to an aggregate sentence of 12 months’ imprisonment for four offences under s 354(1) and s 509 of the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) involving outraging and insulting the modesty of an employee (“the victim”) of a company in which the accused was a director. background1 the accused was served with four charges, all of which pertained to his sexual harassment of the victim between august 2018 and january 2019. these charges stemmed from three separate incidents, namely: (a) telling her that he had a “hard-on” and pulling her hand towards his penis (“the first incident” - the first and second charges); (b) swiping her groin area with his hand twice (“the second incident” - the 3rd charge); and (c) sliding his hand along her back to the side of her breast (“the third incident”, constituting the fourth charge). 2 in the district court below, the accused was convicted on the third charge and sentenced to five months’ imprisonment. he was acquitted on the remaining three charges. 3 the prosecution appealed against the acquittals while the accused appealed against his conviction and sentence on the second charge. the high court allowed the prosecution’s appeal and convicted the accused on the 1st, 3rd and 4th charges and affirmed the conviction on the second charge. 4 today’s hearing was for the prosecution and the accused to submit on the appropriate sentences for the four charges.decisionabuse of position of trust5 the main common aggravating factor amongst the charges was the accused’s abuse of position as the victim’s superior at work, having committed the offences in the workplace environment during office hours. this attracted considerations of deterrence: at [146]–[147].psychological harm6 another common offence-specific aggravating factor is the harm suffered by the victim arising out of the offences. the court accepted that there was some psychological and emotional harm suffered by the victim as reflected in the victim impact statement. such harm was consistent with the evidence given by the victim in court that she was “really scared” and “very upset” such that she started crying after the second incident. this was also corroborated by pw’s evidence: at [150].persistence of offending conduct7 the accused’s persistent course of sexual misconduct against the victim was also an offence-specific aggravating factor underlying all the charges. his conduct demonstrated a clear pattern of workplace sexual harassment displayed through his repeated predatory actions towards his subordinate. in addition, his persistence was also evident when considering the circumstances surrounding some of the charges: at [151].lack of remorse 8 the accused’s lack of remorse was an aggravating factor, in particular  when he was confronted by the victim and pw4. after the second incident, the victim sent a message to the accused to tell him that she did not feel comfortable with what he was doing, and that he should stop. the accused then called her and asked her to delete the message. this demonstrated an intention to conceal evidence of his wrongdoing (which he would later repeat). further, when confronted by pw4 after the third incident, the accused sought to downplay his actions as him “just joking”, and implied that it was the victim’s fault for dressing in a “sexy and seducing” way. he later alleged an affair between him and the victim to deflect any blame for his misconduct. this victim-blaming and manipulative behaviour showed that the accused consistently demonstrated no remorse for his offending. the individual sentences 9 having considered the above factors, the high court arrived at the following sentences:first chargeone week’s imprisonmentsecond chargethree months’ imprisonment (consecutive)third chargefive months’ imprisonmentfourth chargenine months’ imprisonment(consecutive)total sentence12 months’ imprisonmentthe appropriate aggregate sentence10 the court decided that it would be appropriate for the second and fourth charges to run consecutively, as these represented the first and last offences of outrage of modesty committed by the accused and were thus the furthest apart in time. doing so would also give a more accurate picture of the overall pattern and time period of offending, reflecting the totality of the appellant’s conduct. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court.