supreme court of singapore
31 july 2018
case summary
law society of singapore v chia choon yang [2018] sghc 174

court of three judges originating summons 7 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of three judges (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):
outcome: c3j suspends errant solicitor for a term of 15 months for falsely attesting to having witnessed the signing of a power of attorney. 
pertinent and significant points of the judgment


the submission of a false document by an errant solicitor intending that it be acted on involves an element of deceit. cases of false attestation thus necessarily involves dishonesty because it entails the assertion of a fact or a state of affairs that the errant solicitor knows is untrue (at [15] and [55]).


misconduct involving dishonesty will almost invariably warrant an order for striking off where the dishonesty reveals a character defect rendering the errant solicitor unsuitable for the profession, or undermines the administration of justice. this would typically be the case (i) where the dishonesty is integral to the commission of a criminal offence of which the solicitor has been convicted; (ii) where the dishonesty violates the relationship of trust and confidence inherent in a solicitor-client relationship; and (iii) where the dishonesty leads to a breach of the solicitor’s duty to the court or otherwise impedes the administration of justice. in such cases, striking off will be the presumptive penalty unless there are truly exceptional facts to show that a striking off would be disproportionate (at [39]).


for cases that do not fall into these categories, the court should examine the facts closely to determine whether striking off is warranted. in particular, it should ascertain: (i) the real nature of the wrong and the interest that has been implicated; (ii) the extent and nature of the deception; (iii) the motivations and reasons behind the dishonesty and whether it indicates a fundamental lack of integrity or a case of misjudgment; (iv) whether the errant solicitor benefited from the dishonesty; and (v) whether the dishonesty caused actual harm or had the potential to cause harm that the errant solicitor ought to have or in fact recognised. these factors are not exhaustive. further, the circumstances must be assessed holistically and the court should bear in mind that the principal purpose of disciplinary sanctions is to protect the public and uphold public confidence in the legal profession (at [40]–[41]). 


if striking off is determined to be unwarranted, the next step is to determine the appropriate section. given the gravity of misconduct involving dishonesty, it would be a rare case in which a mere censure or fine would suffice (at [41]).
 


1          this was the application by the law society of singapore (“the law society”) for mr chia choon yang of chia choon yang law practice (“the respondent”) to show cause as to why he should not be made to suffer punishment under s 83(1) of the legal profession act (cap 161, 2009 rev ed) (“lpa”).
facts/ the material facts
2          in july 2015, mr david li (“mr li”) asked the respondent to notarise a power of attorney (“poa”) granting mr li powers to act on behalf of new eastern (1971) private limited (“new eastern”). when it was brought before him, the poa evidently already bore the signature of one of new eastern’s directors, mr loy teu wee (“mr loy”). mr li told the respondent that two other persons had witnessed mr loy signing the poa, and that it would be used in the people’s republic of china for business purposes.
3          the respondent accepted mr li’s representations. he appended his signature and affixed his seal of office as a notary public on the poa. he then prepared a notarial certificate stating that he had witnessed mr loy signing the poa. the notarial certificate was then presented to the singapore academy of law and the chinese embassy for authentication.
4          in april 2016, a complaint was lodged by a director of new eastern against the respondent for falsely attesting that he had witnessed mr loy signing the poa. for this act, the respondent was charged under the lpa for grossly improper conduct in the discharge of his professional duty, and for an alternative charge of misconduct unbefitting an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the supreme court.
5          the respondent did not contest the charges before the disciplinary tribunal, which noted that he was deeply remorseful and that this was his first disciplinary case. nevertheless, it concluded that his misconduct was so serious as to warrant disciplinary action.
the court’s ground of decision
6          the court of three judges (“c3j”) found that the respondent was guilty of grossly improper conduct (at [12]). it also found that the respondent’s misconduct necessarily involved dishonesty given that he had asserted a fact or a state of affairs that he knew was untrue. even assuming that the respondent had no reason to disbelieve mr li, the fact remains that he had falsely asserted that he had personally witnessed mr loy executing the poa with the knowledge that third parties might rely on his seal and notarial certificate in treating the poa as genuine and validly executed (at [15] and [55]).
7          but this was a case where an order for striking off would be excessive. the c3j found that the respondent’s dishonesty did not fall within the categories of cases where the presumptive sanction of striking off would apply. there was neither a deception of the court nor a violation of the trust and confidence inherent within a client-solicitor relationship. the respondent sincerely believed mr li’s representations, and was also not acting out of self-interest. he was also genuinely remorseful, and this was his first instance of misconduct over the course of several decades of practice (at [44]).
8          the c3j determined that the appropriate sanction was a period of suspension, and drew parallels with law society of singapore v sum chong mun and another [2017] 4 slr 707 (“sum chong mun”). in that case, an errant solicitor (“mr sum”) was asked by a fellow solicitor to falsely attest to the signing of a lasting power of attorney (“the lpoa”), and was suspended for one year. but the c3j also noted that sum chong mun was not perfectly analogous to the present case. there, a fellow solicitor had assured mr sum that the former had witnessed the signing of the lpoa. in contrast, mr li was not a fellow solicitor, but was the very person who stood to benefit from the poa. this ought to have alerted the respondent to the potential for mischief, and rendered his failure to ensure that he was attesting truthfully more egregious (at [47] and [51]).
9          as a starting point, the c3j considered that the respondent ought to be suspended for a term of 18 months. but it also noted that the respondent had voluntarily ceased practice for about a year, and that there is a public interest in encouraging solicitors in such circumstances to voluntarily cease practice. some credit thus ought to be given to the respondent, but such credit will generally not be to the full extent of the self-imposed suspension because it is not for an offender to determine his own punishment (at [51]–[53]).
10        accordingly, the c3j suspended the respondent for a term of 15 months (at [54]).
sentencing approach 
11        misconduct involving dishonesty will almost invariably warrant an order for striking off where the dishonesty reveals a character defect rendering the errant solicitor unsuitable for the profession, or undermines the administration of justice. this would typically be the case (i) where the dishonesty is integral to the commission of a criminal offence of which the solicitor has been convicted; (ii) where the dishonesty violates the relationship of trust and confidence inherent in a solicitor-client relationship; and (iii) where the dishonesty leads to a breach of the solicitor’s duty to the court or otherwise impedes the administration of justice. in such cases, striking off will be the presumptive penalty unless there are truly exceptional facts to show that a striking off would be disproportionate (at [39]).
12        for cases that do not fall into these categories, the court should examine the facts closely to determine whether striking off is warranted. in particular, it should ascertain: (i) the real nature of the wrong and the interest that has been implicated; (ii) the extent and nature of the deception; (iii) the motivations and reasons behind the dishonesty and whether it indicates a fundamental lack of integrity or a case of misjudgment; (iv) whether the errant solicitor benefited from the dishonesty; and (v) whether the dishonesty caused actual harm or had the potential to cause harm that the errant solicitor ought to have or in fact recognised. these factors are not exhaustive. further, the circumstances must be assessed holistically and the court should bear in mind that the principal purpose of disciplinary sanctions is to protect the public and uphold public confidence in the legal profession (at [40]–[41]). 
13        if striking off is determined to be unwarranted, the next step is to determine the appropriate section. given the gravity of misconduct involving dishonesty, it would be a rare case in which a mere censure or fine would suffice (at [41]).

this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.