supreme court of singapore



3 july 2018



case summary




ng siok poh (administratrix of the estate of lim lian chiat, deceased)

and another v sim lian-koru bena jv pte ltd



[2018] sgca 35




civil appeal no 130 of 2017





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice andrew phang boon

leong):





the court of appeal dismisses property owner’s appeal for developer of

next-door condo to pay for micro-pile underpinning to rectify tilted house.

developer is to pay for renovations to rectify appearance of tilt only and

compensate for loss of amenity in the interim.



background to the appeal
1      the respondent is the developer of a condominium known as the amery. in

2009, the excavation to build the basement carpark of the amery caused the

soil around the neighbouring property (“the property”) to shift, and the

property to tilt towards the excavation site. the property was built in the

1970s by the second appellant’s father and is of immense sentimental value

to his family. the second appellant and two of his siblings continue to

reside in the property.
2     in march 2014, the appellants commenced suit alleging that the

respondent was liable in tort for private nuisance and negligence

that caused damage to the property while constructing the amery. on

14 august 2014, interlocutory judgment was entered by consent, with

all damages to be assessed and all issues relating to causation,

damages, cost and interest to be reserved.

       
3     after two tranches of assessment of damages, the high court judge

(“the judge’) decided that the appropriate measure of damages was

the costs of reinstating the property. the costs of reinstatement

were to be assessed based on the costs of aesthetic works that

would remove the appearance of a tilt from the property (“the

aesthetics method”), and not the significantly higher costs of

micro-pile underpinning works to lift up the property, reinforce

the foundation and set the property upright so as to remove the

actual tilt altogether (“the underpinning method”). the judge did

not award the appellants damages for loss of amenity because the

aesthetics method would eliminate any perception of the tilt and

would thereby directly address the loss of amenity suffered by the

appellants arising from the sense of a tilt.

       
4     the appellants appealed, contending that damages should be assessed

based on the underpinning method. alternatively, they claimed

damages for loss of amenity and damages for certain items of

aesthetic works that were refused by the judge. they also claimed

costs and disbursements of the second tranche of the trial, which

the judge had refused.

        

decision on appeal
5     the court of appeal upheld the judge’s decision to award damages

based on the aesthetics method. it reasoned that the choice of the

mode of reinstatement is part of a broader inquiry into the

suitable measure of damages. the governing principle in this

context is one of objective reasonableness. on the facts, the judge

had given due consideration to the property’s special value, which

did not justify a complete reinstatement at all costs. second, it

was not open to the appellants to now contend that the property’s

utility has been diminished as it was not part of their case below

that the tilt hindered their ability to carry out renovations.

third, based on the evidence adduced, the court was not persuaded

that it would be reasonable to require the respondent to bear the

cost of rectifying the actual tilt using the underpinning method.

in particular, there was no convincing evidence of the tilt

increasing and the property was structurally safe. (            [35], [44], [47], [59])

        
6     seeing as the risk of damage (however improbable on the evidence

presented) could cause serious harm if it materialised, the court

of appeal considered whether to remit the case to the judge so as

to allow the appellants to adduce evidence of the view of the

building and construction authority (“bca”) on the safety and

stability of the property and the bca’s recommended course of

action. however, the court concluded that the issue could not now

be remitted to the judge in the interests of finality. (            [56]–[58])

        
7     in relation to damages for loss of amenity, the court of appeal

affirmed the judge’s decision not to award damages for prospective

loss of amenity since the aesthetics method would address the

second appellant’s discomfort with the sense that the property is

tilting. however, the court awarded the second appellant $50,000 in

damages for past loss of amenity from 2009 until such time that the

property is reinstated by the aesthetics method. (            [65]–[66])

       
8     in relation to the quantification of damages pursuant to the

aesthetics method, the court of appeal affirmed the judge’s

decision, except that it allowed recovery for the cost of replacing

the doors which had been chamfered to fit into the tilted door

frames. ([69])

        
9     finally, the court of appeal awarded the second appellant the costs

of the whole trial, including the second tranche. although the

appellants failed to prove during the second tranche that the

property continued to tilt further, the evidence adduced completely

changed the tenor of both parties’ cases and the judge’s reasoning,

and shifted the focus of the inquiry to the significance of

exceeding the safety limits set by the bca and whether a safety

reserve had to be restored. thus, the attempt to re-open the

evidence was not unmeritorious. ([73])

        

 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.