supreme court of singapore
25 june 2018
case summary
biofuel industries pte ltd v v8 environmental pte ltd and another appeal 
civil appeals nos 155 and 157 of 2017
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice andrew phang boon leong):
the court of appeal dismissed biofuel’s appeal and allowed v8’s appeal only in relation to the judge’s award of substantial damages for v8’s wrongful termination of a biomass supply agreement between the parties. in particular, the court of appeal held that biofuel failed to prove the actual quantum of its loss as it had not adduced any evidence as to its costs savings under the agreement.
background to the appeal


civil appeal no 155 of 2017 was an appeal by biofuel industries pte ltd (“bfi”) and civil appeal no 157 of 2017 was an appeal by v8 environmental pte ltd (“v8”). both appeals were against the decision of the trial judge in biofuel industries pte ltd v v8 environmental pte ltd [2017] sghc 184.
facts


bfi is in the business of disposing waste wood and wood chips. it accepts waste wood or wood chips from suppliers in exchange for a disposal fee. v8 is a waste management service provider. it collects waste wood from construction sites for a fee and eventually disposes such waste wood at facilities such as the one owned by bfi.


v8 has been disposing of waste wood with bfi since 2007. sometime in 2010, the ceo of bfi suggested that v8 purchase a shredder to shred the waste wood that v8 collects into wood chips. it was said that this would make it easier for v8 to transport the wood chips and v8 could enjoy the lower price for disposal that applied to wood chips. v8 agreed and bought the shredder. sometime in july 2013, the parties entered into the biomass supply agreement (“bsa”). under the bsa, it was agreed that bfi would be v8’s exclusive disposal service provider and that, in exchange, v8 would enjoy lower disposal fees, at $30 per metric ton (“pmt”) for waste wood and $13.50pmt for wood chips.


on 10 april 2015, v8 terminated the bsa alleging that bfi had repudiated the agreement through its conduct. on 14 may 2015, bfi commenced this suit against v8 for wrongful termination of the bsa and for non-payment of certain invoices. bfi claimed against v8 for payment of the outstanding invoices, loss of profits from onward sales to a third party and damages for shortfalls of delivery. under the bsa, v8 had to deliver a minimum of 2000 metric tons of waste wood and/or wood chips every month. in its defence, v8 alleged that the bsa had been repudiated because bfi wrongfully rejected v8’s deliveries of waste wood and wood chips, and wrongfully and unilaterally raised the prices for its services under the bsa on several occasions. in particular, v8 relied on an incident on 12 december 2014 where bfi allegedly rejected all future deliveries of wood chips because they were oversized. v8 also contended that, should it be found to be in wrongful termination of the bsa, the unpaid invoices as well as the damages ought to be calculated based on the fee for disposing of wood chips and not waste wood. according to v8, this is because it delivered waste wood only because bfi had rejected its delivery of wood chips on 12 december 2014.


the trial judge found that bfi did not repudiate the contract and v8 therefore wrongfully terminated the bsa. the trial judge ordered v8 to pay bfi the unpaid invoices at the price for disposing waste wood. he also allowed bfi’s claim for damages for the shortfall in deliveries. as bfi did not adduce any evidence as to its costs savings under the bsa, the trial judge applied the difference between the disposal fee for waste wood and that of wood chips as bfi’s costs of performing its obligations under the bsa and used $13.50pmt as the quantum of profit. the trial judge disallowed bfi’s claim for loss of profits on the onward sale to the third party. the trial judge also ordered that each party bear its own costs for the trial on the basis of bfi’s poor conduct both before and during the litigation.


both parties appealed against the trial judge’s decision. there is some degree of overlap in terms of the issues in the two appeals. in sum, the issues before the court of appeal were (a) whether the trial judge erred in finding that bfi’s conduct did not amount to repudiation of the bsa and therefore erred in concluding that v8 had wrongfully terminated the contract; (b) if the answer to (a) is in the negative: (i) whether the trial judge erred in ordering v8 to pay the outstanding invoices at the price for the disposal of waste wood (ie, $30pmt) as opposed to wood chips (ie, $13.50pmt); (ii) whether the trial judge erred in declining to award damages to bfi for its loss of profits under the onward sale contract with scg trading co ltd; and (iii) whether the trial judge erred in awarding substantial damages to bfi for the shortfall in delivery; and if he did not, whether he erred in awarding damages at the price of $13.50pmt instead of $30pmt; and (c) whether the trial judge erred in awarding substantial damages to bfi for the shortfall in delivery; and if he did not, whether he erred in awarding damages at the price of $13.50pmt instead of $30pmt.
decision on appeal


the court of appeal dismissed biofuel’s appeal in civil appeal no 155 of 2017 and allowed v8’s appeal in civil appeal no 157 of 2017 only in relation to the trial judge’s award of substantial damages for v8’s wrongful termination of the bsa.


the court of appeal found that the trial judge was correct in holding that bfi’s conduct did not demonstrate an intention to no longer be bound by the bsa and therefore did not amount to a repudiation of the bsa (at [21]). while bfi behaved poorly, in rejecting deliveries and attempting to raise prices unilaterally, its conduct as a whole was found not to have amounted to renunciation of the bsa. first, although it attempted to increase prices, these attempts were eventually negated by the issuance of credit notes. such conduct is inconsistent with that of a party having no intention to the bound by the contract (at [22]). second, the two reasons proffered by bfi in relation to the deliveries, namely that it ran out of storage space or that the wood chips delivered were oversized, are not illustrative of an intention to renounce the bsa. what was crucial is that deliveries always resumed and v8 was content to continue with deliveries despite the alleged rejections (at [22]). third, although there were no wood chips delivered after 12 december 2014, the evidence did not support a finding that this was because of bfi’s alleged rejection (at [22]). the court of appeal also observed that what constitutes renunciation and therefore repudiation is largely a question of fact which is best answered by the trial judge (at [23]).


the court of appeal affirmed the trial judge’s order for v8 to pay bfi the sums due under the outstanding invoices based on the waste wood that it had delivered. it declined to reduce the sum on the basis that v8 delivered waste wood only because bfi had rejected all future deliveries of wood chips on 12 december 2014 (at [26]).


the trial judge’s dismissal of bfi’s claim for the alleged loss of profits from its onward sale of wood chips to third parties was upheld. affirming the reasons given by the trial judge in this regard, the court of appeal added that bfi had not demonstrated that this purported loss was suffered as a result of v8’s breach (at [27]).


the court of appeal allowed v8’s appeal in relation to the quantum of damages for the shortfall in delivery under the bsa. the court of appeal found that bfi’s contention that its gross profits were its net profits was untenable given the evidence that bfi had incurred operational costs under the bsa (at [32] to [39]). the court of appeal held that bfi would not be entitled to substantial damages because it failed to prove its quantum of loss. it was noted that bfi must prove both the fact of damage and its amount (at [41]). the court of appeal clarified that the flexible approach to determining damages did not aid bfi because it did not demonstrate that there would be practical difficulties in obtaining evidence as to its costs savings under the bsa (at [42]). the court of appeal also pointed out that it was not bfi’s case that precise evidence of such costs savings was unavailable. the court of appeal considered that since bfi chose not to adduce any evidence as to its costs savings, only two conclusions can be reached. the first is that bfi may not have suffered any loss because it may not have enjoyed profits under the bsa. this is because the costs of its performance may have been higher than the disposal fee charged. the second is that, even if it was accepted that bfi did suffer some loss, bfi has nonetheless failed to prove the quantum of its losses. in both situations, only nominal damages can be awarded (at [44]). the court of appeal therefore reversed v8’s appeal and only awarded nominal damages of $1000 to bfi (at [45]).


the trial judge’s order that each party bear its own costs for the proceedings below was upheld (at [46]).


this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.