supreme court of singapore
27 april 2018 
case summary
minichit bunhom v jazali bin kastari and another [2018] sgca 22



civil appeal no 26 of 2017 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice steven chong):
outcome: coa allowed appeal against decision that the employment of foreign manpower act (cap 91a) imposed a non-delegable duty on the employer of the appellant-victim (who held a work permit) to pay for the appellant’s medical expenses such that the appellant could not recover the same from the first respondent-tortfeasor.   
pertinent and significant points of the judgment


court of appeal considered the nature and scope of the employer’s obligations under the employment of foreign manpower act (cap 91a) (“efma”) vis-à-vis the medical expenses of a foreign employee holding a work permit: at [40]. 


the broad scope of an employer’s obligations relating to the medical expenses of a foreign employee had no bearing on the separate question of whether a victim-foreign employee could recover the medical expenses occasioned by a third party tort from the tortfeasor: at [41]. 


the protective policy of the efma would not be infringed if the employer paid the victim-foreign employee’s medical expenses on the basis of a non-recourse loan agreement providing that the employee would repay the expenses to the employer, should the expenses be subsequently recovered from the tortfeasor: at [49]. 


on account of the rule against double recovery, the court in granting the victim-foreign employee’s claim for medical expenses against the tortfeasor would, and should as a matter of course, require an undertaking or make a direction that the victim-foreign employee was to return the recovered medical expenses to the employer: at [85]. 


 
background to the appeal
1          civil appeal no 26 of 2017 was an appeal by minichit bunhom (“the appellant”) against the decision of the high court judge (“the judge”) in minichit bunhom v jazali bin kastari and another [2017] 3 slr 608. 
facts
2          the appellant was a foreign employee of thai nationality holding a work permit under the employment of foreign manpower act (cap 91a, 2009 rev ed) (“efma”). on 8 november 2013, the appellant was travelling in a lorry driven by one jazali bin kastari (“the first respondent”) when the lorry hit the kerb of a road divider, causing the appellant and others to suffer injuries. it was not disputed that the accident occurred as a result of the first respondent’s negligence.
3          the appellant was taken to the national university hospital (“nuh”) for medical treatment. the appellant’s employer at that time was kpw singapore pte ltd (“kpw”). in consideration for the provision of medical care, nuh required a written undertaking from kpw that the latter would make payment of all hospital expenses incurred by the appellant which kpw duly provided. the appellant claimed that he could not afford to pay for the medical expenses. subsequent hospital bills were addressed to and paid by kpw. in total, the appellant incurred medical expenses amounting to $15,682.97. 
4          the medical expenses were paid by kpw on the basis of a non-recourse loan agreement with the appellant under which the latter would claim the expenses from the first respondent and repay kpw upon recovery. in any event and to the extent that the appellant could not recover any part of the medical expenses from the first respondent, kpw had no right to enforce the loan against the appellant given its non-recourse nature.
5          the appellant filed a claim against the first respondent seeking, amongst other things, medical expenses occasioned by the accident. interlocutory judgment was granted in favour of the appellant. subsequently, ergo insurance pte ltd (“the second respondent”), who was the first respondent’s motor insurance company, obtained leave to intervene in the proceedings.         
6          at the hearing for assessment of damages before the deputy registrar (“dr”) of the state courts, the dr declined to award the appellant any damages on the basis that a claim had already been made under the work injury compensation act (cap 354, 2009 rev ed) (“wica”). on appeal, the district judge (“dj”) was satisfied that no claim had been made under the wica scheme and awarded the appellant general and special damages, but disallowed the appellant’s claim for medical expenses. 
7          on appeal against the dj’s decision not to allow recovery of the medical expenses, the judge agreed with the dj and dismissed the appeal on the ground that the efma placed a non-delegable statutory duty on the employer to bear the foreign employee’s medical expenses, the risk of which could not be allocated to the employee. further, to allow the appellant to recover medical expenses would lead to double recovery for the appellant or for kpw who could make a claim on its efma insurance for the same sum. 
decision on appeal
9          the court of appeal allowed the appellant’s appeal. it also directed that upon recovery of the medical expenses in question from the second respondent, the appellant was to pay the sum over to his employer, kpw
10        on an incontrovertible application of the compensation principle, the first respondent would have been liable to compensate the appellant for the medical expenses incurred as a result of his negligence, if the appellant had not been a work permit holder under the efma (at [30]). 
11        the relevant conditions in the employment of foreign manpower (work passes) regulations 2012 (“efmr”) indicated a general rule that the employer of a foreign employee is to be responsible for the provision of the latter’s medical expenses (at [40]). however, nothing in the efma or the efmr suggested that they were intended to abridge the recovery of medical expenses as between a tortfeasor and the victim (at [42]). 
12        the protective policy of the efma would not be infringed if the employer paid the victim-foreign employee’s medical expenses on the basis of a non-recourse loan agreement providing that the employee would repay the expenses to the employer, should the expenses be subsequently recovered from the tortfeasor (at [49]).
13        the second respondent placed heavy reliance on lee chiang theng v public prosecutor [2012] 1 slr 751 (“lee chiang theng”) (at [51]). however, when taken in its proper context, it was clear that lee chiang theng had no immediate relevance (at [54]). further, it appeared that the parties had placed an unintended meaning on the term “non-delegable” that was used in lee chiang theng (at [57]).
14        the court agreed with sun delong v teo poh soon and another [2016] sghc 129 that the relevant conditions in the efmr did not preclude a victim-foreign employee from recovering the medical expenses from a third party tortfeasor which were occasioned by the latter’s tort (at [66]). the applicability of these conditions was not dependent on the presence or absence of any third party tortious conduct (at [69]).   
15        the malaysian case of lim kiat boon & ors v lim seu kong & anor [1980] 2 mlj 39 (“lim kiat boon”) could not assist the second respondent. the court had serious doubts about the correctness of the distinction drawn between “gratuitous” payments and “obligated” payments, and the holding that only the former was recoverable from the tortfeasor based on the principle of res inter alios acta (at [80]). in any event, lim kiat boon could be distinguished as it applied to wages or its equivalent and not medical expenses (at [81]). 
16        while the rule against double recovery was important and well-established, it was not necessarily paramount in all situations (at [83]). in any event, the approach taken in the present case did not offend the rule against double recovery whether in relation to the victim-foreign employee or the employer (at [85]). the court in granting the victim-foreign employee’s claim for medical expenses against the tortfeasor would, and should as a matter of course, require an undertaking or make a direction that the victim-foreign employee was to return the recovered medical expenses to the employer (at [85(a)]). 
17        the approach in the present case would also not expose the tortfeasor (or his insurer) to double liability for the medical expenses (at [87]).
 
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.