supreme court of singapore
13 april 2018
case summary
comfort management pte ltd v ogsp engineering pte ltd

civil appeal no 163 of 2017
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice steven chong):
the court of appeal holds that (a) s 17(3) of the security of payment act both prescribes and restricts the matters an adjudicator must consider in making a determination; (b) to allow a claim, an adjudicator must be satisfied that the claimant has established a prima facie case that the construction work which is the subject of the payment claim has been completed and that the value of that work is as stated in the payment claim; (c) if a respondent has failed to file a payment response, he is permitted to challenge the payment claim by highlighting only patent errors in the material properly before the adjudicator; and (d) for the reviewing court, the question of whether there are patent errors is the decisive test for whether the adjudicator has breached his duty under s 17(3) and his determination thereby liable to be set aside.
background
1              comfort management pte ltd (“comfort”) sub-contracted to ogsp engineering pte ltd (“ogsp”) the installation of a ventilation system at a warehouse for a price of $1.25m. in march 2017, ogsp issued comfort a payment claim for $890,262.23 under the building and construction industry security of payment act (cap 30b, 2006 rev ed) (“the act”) for work done under their contract. comfort did not file a payment response, and ogsp took the claim to adjudication under the act. the adjudicator awarded ogsp the amount claimed. comfort failed to pay, and ogsp applied to the high court to enforce the adjudication determination as a judgment debt. comfort then applied to set it aside, arguing that the adjudicator had failed to recognise patent errors in ogsp’s claim, and that ogsp had conspired with its associates to defraud comfort through inflated invoices. ([6]–[9])
the high court’s decision
2              the high court judge allowed ogsp’s application and dismissed comfort’s. the judge held that the adjudicator was aware that he had to look for patent errors in ogsp claim, and that he had not failed to recognise any such errors. ([10])
3              the judge also rejected comfort’s submission that the adjudicator was obliged under s 17(3) of the act to consider all the matters stated in that provision, one of those matters being the provisions of the parties’ contract. the judge held that s 17(3) merely set the outer limits of what an adjudicator could consider. in any event, to the extent that the contract required ogsp to provide supporting documents to establish its claim, the adjudicator did consider those documents. also, to the extent that comfort was arguing that ogsp’s documents were insufficient, comfort was mounting an impermissible attack on the merits of the adjudicator’s decision. finally, the judge rejected comfort’s argument that ogsp had conspired with others to defraud comfort. ([11]–[12])
the court of appeal’s decision
4              comfort appealed, abandoning the conspiracy argument on appeal. the court therefore had to decide two main issues: (a) whether comfort’s interpretation of s 17(3) of the act was correct; and (b) whether the adjudicator’s alleged failure to recognise patent errors was a basis for setting aside his determination. the court determined the first issue in comfort’s favour, but not the second. as a result, the appeal was dismissed. ([17]–[18])
5              the court began with two preliminary points. first, the analysis of the first issue was deliberately confined to what s 17(3) requires of an adjudicator during the adjudication. what is required of a court when reviewing an adjudication determination for the purpose of deciding whether to set it aside for breach of s 17(3) would be the subject only of the analysis of the second issue. this distinction reflected the design of the act in differentiating the functions of the adjudicator and the court. ([20])
6              second, the court defined a “patent error” as an error in the material properly before an adjudicator that is obvious, manifest or otherwise easily recognisable. the court opined that patent errors are an exceptional and extremely narrow category of errors. examples include the wrong contract adduced in support of the payment claim; documentary evidence that plainly contradicts the claimed amount; and the absence of any material or explanation to support the payment claim. ([21]–[24])
issue 1: section 17(3)
7              the court accepted comfort’s interpretation of s 17(3) of the act. the court held that s 17(3) both prescribes the matters that an adjudicator must consider in determining an adjudication and restricts his consideration for that purpose to those matters only. this construction was supported by s 17(3)’s immediate context, namely, its sub-provisions, which concern matters that parliament could not have intended the adjudicator to have the option of ignoring, such as the provisions of the act and the parties’ contract. ([29]–[30] and [52])
8              the court then explained the effect of this construction in the light of s 15(3)(a) of the act, which precludes a respondent from relying on, and an adjudicator from considering, reasons for withholding payment that were not included in a duly filed payment response. the court held that regardless of whether a payment response has been filed, an adjudicator has an independent duty to address his mind to and consider the true merits of a payment claim. this duty comprises the obligations set out in ss 17(2) and 17(3) of the act. it requires an adjudicator, before allowing a claim, to be satisfied that the claimant has established a prima facie case that the construction work which is the subject of the payment claim has been completed and that the value of that work is as stated in the payment claim. thus, the applicable standard of persuasion is a prima facie case, not absence of patent errors or proof on a balance of probabilities. ([34], [54], [57] and [62]–[65])
9              the court then held that notwithstanding the existence of such a duty, if a respondent has failed to file a payment response, he is permitted to challenge the payment claim by highlighting only patent errors in the material properly before the adjudicator. this position represents the proper balance between giving effect to the legal restrictions on a respondent’s entitlement to make submissions when he has failed to file a payment response and giving effect to his right to the proper conduct of the adjudication. ([34] and [66]–[67]).
issue 2: patent error as a reason for setting aside
10           having accepted comfort’s interpretation of s 17(3) of the act, the court considered whether the adjudicator by failing to recognising patent errors in the material properly before him had breached s 17(3) or any other provision in the act. in this regard, the court began by holding that s 17(3) was, as comfort’s submission had assumed, a mandatory provision, breach of which would render an adjudication determination liable to be set aside. ([77])
11           the court then explained the proper role of the concept of patent error in the court’s review of an adjudication determination. the court held that the question of whether there are patent errors is the decisive test for whether the adjudicator has breached his duty under s 17(3). that is because his failure to recognise such errors leads to the inexorable inference that he had failed to consider all the matters in s 17(3). accordingly, the central task of a respondent who seeks to set aside an adjudication determination for breach of s 17(3) is to show the court that there are patent errors in the material properly before the adjudicator that the adjudicator failed to recognise. ([80]–[81])
12           the question of whether there are patent errors is also the central analytical tool for ascertaining whether the adjudicator has discharged his duty under s 17(2), which is principally to determine the adjudicated amount. in addition, the existence of patent errors will always lead to the conclusion that the adjudicator has breached his general duty to adjudicate. finally, the question of whether there are patent errors may serve as an analytical tool for ascertaining whether other mandatory provisions relating to the adjudicator’s conduct have been breached. ([82]–[84])
13           in this case, the adjudicator applied the correct standard of persuasion because he stated that he could not simply rubber stamp the claim but had instead to consider the material properly before him and consider whether there were patent errors. but even if he had only looked for patent errors, that would not lead to the inference that he did not address his mind to the true merits of the claim. ([86])
14           ogsp’s payment claim comprised four heads of claim, namely, (a) work done under a variation order; (b) the cost of certain materials delivered and used; (c) payment of the balance contract sum; and (d) payment of a retention sum which had yet to be released. the adjudicator did not fail to recognise patent errors in any of these heads of claim. he considered all the material which had been adduced in support of each head, and had a positive basis for accepting all of them. ([87], [91], [99] and [101]–[102])
15           comfort submitted that the adjudicator failed to consider that the parties’ contract required that variation orders be made in writing, and thereby also failed to recognise that ogsp had not produced evidence of such writing in support of its first head of claim. the court rejected this submission on the basis that as a matter of law, it was not the case that absence of writing disentitles a party from being paid for work done under a variation order. ([88]–[90])
16           comfort also submitted that the adjudicator failed to consider that there was no legal or factual basis for the claim for cost of materials. the court rejected this submission, observing that ogsp had stated on the face of the payment claim that the materials had been ordered and delivered at comfort’s instruction, and that comfort, having failed to file a payment response, had been precluded from denying this statement. this analysis highlighted the general point that it is overwhelmingly in a respondent’s interest to file a payment response, since without it, certain errors in the material which could have been made patent will remain latent. ([95]–[98])
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.