supreme court of singapore4 april 2023 case summarygeneral hotel management (singapore) pte ltd and another v the wave studio pte ltd and others [2023] sghc(a) 11 appellate division of the high court – civil appeal nos 12 of 2022 and 46 of 2022 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by steven chong jca):outcome: appellate division of the high court dismisses appeal against decision that the respondents have ownership of the copyright in the photographs that they produced as part of their services to the hotels managed by the appellants; and allows appeal against decision that the respondents should be awarded costs on an indemnity basis. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  under s 30(5) of the copyright act (cap 63, 2006 rev ed) (which has since been repealed) (the “copyright act”), where a client makes for valuable consideration an agreement with another person for the taking of photographs, the client is the owner of the copyright in the photographs. for s 30(5) of the copyright act to be operative, there is no need for a direct contractual relationship between the client and the photographer: at [56]. there is also no need for the agreement to be solely for the taking of photographs: at [65] and [67]. •  section 30(5) of the copyright act can be excluded by agreement, which was done in the present case. there was a validly incorporated clause in the agreement which reserved the intellectual property rights in the hotel photographs to the respondents (the “reservation clause”): at [51]. •  there was no implied licence or consent permitting the reproduction of the hotel photographs for the general purpose of marketing. to imply a term into the agreement would directly contradict the reservation clause, which was an express term reserving the copyright in the hotel photographs to the respondents: at [71] and [73]. •  the judgment obtained was less favourable than the terms of the offer to settle (which contained a term that required the appellants to agree that other parties had no defences to the copyright infringement) since the court could not require the appellants to admit that other parties (who were not parties in the action) had no defences whatsoever to a claim for copyright infringement in respect of the hotel photographs: at [93] and [99]. background to the appeal and material facts 1 the appellants, general hotel management (singapore) pte ltd (“ghm (singapore”), a company incorporated in singapore, and general hotel management, ltd (“ghm (bvi)”), a company incorporated in the british virgin islands with its principal place of business in singapore, were both part of the general hotel management group (“ghm”). ghm managed, operated and promoted luxury hotels and resorts all over the world. the second respondent, ms lee kar yin (“ms lee”), an interdisciplinary artist, creative designer and entrepreneur, set up various business entities for the purpose of carrying out her work in the creative industry (collectively, “wave”). this included the first respondent, the wave studio pte ltd, which was incorporated in singapore and the third respondent, the wave studio llc, which was incorporated in the united states under the laws of new york. 2 between 1995 and 2008, ghm engaged ms lee, as well as wave, to provide exclusive “one-stop shop” services, including photoshoots, comprehensive branding and marketing designs for the hotels under its management (collectively, the “hotels”). for the photoshoots, ms lee engaged two photographers to take the raw photographs. after each photoshoot, ms lee would commence post-production editing work on the raw images. ms lee would then conduct a final review to produce a curated collection of photographs appropriate for the respective hotel’s branding and design (the “hotel photographs”). 3 from the outset of wave’s working relationship with ghm, wave would provide a document referred to as a “production estimate” to ghm and the hotels. each production estimate contained key terms and conditions that governed the work under each purchase order. critically, the production estimates contained a clause confirming that any “intellectual property copyright” which arose from wave’s work on the project is owned by wave (the “reservation clause”). 4 after the parties’ working relationship had ended, ms lee discovered that the hotel photographs were featured on the websites of several online travel agencies and appeared on 242 instances of ghm’s in-house production magazine, “the magazine”, which could be accessed and downloaded via ghm’s website. 5 on 31 december 2013, the wave studio, llc commenced an action against ghm (bvi) and other third parties in the united states district court for copyright infringement of the hotel photographs. the united states district court dismissed the wave studio llc’s claims against ghm (bvi) on the grounds of forum non conveniens and held that singapore was the natural forum to determine the ownership of the copyright in the hotel photographs. thereafter, on 19 february 2018, the respondents commenced hc/s 175/2018 against the appellants. on 5 january 2021, the respondents served on the appellants an offer to settle (“ots”) which was not accepted. 6 the trial judge (the “judge”) held that the ownership of the copyright in the hotel photographs belonged to wave. there was no implied term assigning the copyright in the hotel photographs to the appellants due to the reservation clause which reserved the intellectual property rights in the hotel photographs to wave. the appellants were thus determined to have infringed the respondents’ copyright in the hotel photographs. as the respondents had served on the appellants an ots which was not accepted, the judge determined that the respondents were entitled to have their costs from the date of the ots assessed on an indemnity basis. 7 ca/ad 12/2022 (“ad 12”) is the appellants’ appeal against the judge’s decision on the ownership of the copyright in the hotel photographs. ca/ad 46/2022 (“ad 46”) is the appellants’ appeal against the judge’s decision to award costs on an indemnity basis.  decision8 ad 12 concerned the proper interpretation of s 30(5) of the copyright act (cap 63, 2006 rev ed) (the “copyright act”) (which has since been repealed) in relation to the commissioning of photographs. under s 30(2) of the copyright act, the default position is that the owner of the copyright is the “author”, which would be the photographer as defined in s 7 of the copyright act. this default position can be displaced under s 30(5) of the copyright act, where a client makes for valuable consideration, an agreement with another person for the taking of photographs, the client will become the owner of the copyright. the operation of s 30(5) of the copyright act can be excluded by agreement under s 30(3) of the copyright act: at [26] and [27].  9 the court rejected the appellants’ new arguments in relation to the interpretation of the reservation clause. this was determined to be a new case on appeal, as their pleadings only challenged the reservation clause on the basis that it had not been validly incorporated: at [31]. leave of court to introduce new arguments on appeal will typically be granted in relation to a question of contractual interpretation, which is an objective exercise. however, where such arguments are contrary to the evidence below, advancing such new arguments would amount to an abuse of process. the appellants’ arguments on the interpretation of the reservation clause were contradicted by their own evidence at the trial, as the appellants did not dispute the clear meaning of the reservation clause at the trial: at [37] and [39]. their witnesses had also acknowledged the clear meaning of the reservation clause: at [40]. 10 in any case, the meaning of the reservation clause was clear – that wave reserved the intellectual property copyright in all designs, soft copies, materials, photographs and projects undertaken: at [41] and [47]. 11 because there was no issue with the proper interpretation and incorporation of the reservation clause, the operation of s 30(5) of the copyright act was excluded by agreement: at [51]. 12 nevertheless, the court provided some brief views on the proper interpretation of s 30(5) of the copyright act. for the operation of s 30(5) of the copyright act, there was no need for a direct contractual relationship between the client and the author (ie, the photographer). the relevant inquiry is to examine whether there was an agreement with another person for the taking of photographs, and “another person” is broad enough to encompass either the photographer or a third party to the agreement. it is common for photographers to be sub-contracted to create works, such that there is no direct contractual relationship between the photographer and the client. this was the case here, as it did not matter to the appellants who the actual photographer was, as long as the work was done by wave pursuant to the agreement. the appellants were also aware that it was not ms lee who took the photographs, and that she would sub-contract photographers for the job. this arrangement in itself did not deprive the appellants of the ownership of the copyright in the hotel photographs under s 30(5) of the copyright act: at [56], [58] and [59]. 13 furthermore, for s 30(5) of the copyright act to be operative, there was no need for the agreement to solely be for the taking of photographs: at [65]. reading s 30(5) of the copyright act in the context of the surrounding provisions, as long as some part of the agreement entailed the taking of photographs, the copyright in the photographs should vest in the commissioning party. while the respondents were engaged to be a “one-stop shop” for the appellants, a critical part of this agreement was to take photographs of the hotels: at [67] and [70]. 14 the court upheld the judge’s decision that there was no implied licence or consent permitting the reproduction of the hotel photographs for the general purpose of marketing. the court agreed with the judge that to imply a term into the agreement would directly contradict the express reservation of copyright in the production estimates: at [71] and [73].  15 the court did not accept the appellants’ submission that ghm (singapore) was not involved in the production and publication of the magazine. on the last page of the first six issues of the magazine, the publisher and producer of the magazine was expressly stated to be ghm (singapore). the court also agreed with the judge that there was a lack of a clear distinction between the operations of ghm (singapore) and ghm (bvi). as such, ghm (singapore) was involved in the production and publication of the magazine and was liable to the respondents: at [81], [82] and [84]. 16 the court allowed the appellants’ appeal in ad 46 on the basis that the judgment obtained below was less favourable than the ots: at [85]. while the ots was a serious and genuine offer of compromise, the ots required the appellants to agree that third parties, including those with whom the appellants no longer had any business relations, did not have any defences to a claim for copyright infringement in respect of the hotel photographs. this remedy was not pleaded by the respondents and was also a remedy which the court could not grant, as the court could not require the appellants to admit that other parties (who were not parties in the action) had no defences whatsoever to the infringement: at [93] and [99].  this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.