singapore international commercial court





15 march 2018





media summary







singapore international commercial court suit no 2 of 2016 (summons no

5 of 2018)





bnp paribas sa v jacob agam and another 

[2018] sghc(i) 03




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






background facts






1           the plaintiff, bnp paribas sa (“the plaintiff”), is a french-incorporated

private bank which conducts business in singapore through its

singapore-registered branch. the two defendants (“the defendants”), israeli

citizens, were customers of the plaintiff’s subsidiary company, bnp paribas

wealth management (“bnpwm”), prior to bnpwm’s merger with the plaintiff on

1 october 2016.




2             in november 2015, bnpwm commenced an action in the singapore high court

against the defendants for the recovery of certain sums allegedly owed

under personal guarantees the defendants had provided to bnpwm as security

for loans bnpwm had extended to two of their companies under two facility

agreements.




3           in april 2016, the proceedings were transferred to the singapore

international commercial court (“sicc”). the sicc issued its judgment in

november 2017, finding for the plaintiff and awarding the claimed amounts,

and dismissing a counterclaim by the first defendant. in december 2017, the

defendants appealed, filing an offshore case declaration (“the

declaration”) together with their notice of appeal.


 

the application



4           in january 2018, the plaintiff filed the present application (“the

application”) pursuant to o 110 r 37(1) of the rules of court (cap 322, r

5, 2014 rev ed) (“the rules”) seeking a declaration that the action is not

or is no longer an offshore case, and that, consequently, the declaration

would cease to have effect.


 

the decision



5           vivian ramsey ij (“the judge”) allowed the application. he concluded that

the action was not one which has no substantial connection with singapore,

and was therefore not an “offshore case”.


 

reasons for the judgment 



6           the judge first dealt with two preliminary issues. the first concerned

whether the declaration was valid under o 110 r 35 of the rules. the judge

noted that o 110 r 35 required any offshore case declaration to be filed

“together with the first document filed by the party in the action” which,

in the case of the defendants, would have been in january or february 2016.

as the defendants had not applied for or been granted an extension of time,

the judge concluded that the declaration was not validly made.




7           the second concerned whether it was the sicc or the court of appeal which

had the jurisdiction to hear the application. this issue arose because the

defendants had made the declaration in the context of their appeal, and

filed it in the case file for the appeal; however, the application was

filed in the case file for the suit. the judge concluded, after reviewing

the relevant provisions of the rules and the supreme court of judicature

act (cap 322, 2007 rev ed) (“the scja”), that it was the sicc and not the

court of appeal which had the jurisdiction to consider the application.

among other things, he noted that o 110 r 37(6) of the rules provides that

the sicc’s decision as to whether an action is an offshore case is “final”

for the purposes of s 34(1)(e) of the scja, which in turn provides

that no appeals would lie to court of appeal where it was expressly

declared under written law that the order would be final. this showed that

the rules contemplated that any question as to whether an action is an

offshore case would be heard by the sicc, whose decision on the matter

would be final.




8           turning to the merits of the application, the judge noted that the test

was that an action would be an offshore case if it could properly be said

to be one with “no substantial connection with singapore”. in this case, it

was of fundamental importance that singapore was the place of performance

of the obligations under both the facility agreements and the personal

guarantees. the factors raised by the defendants (eg, that the

parties were not singaporean) were not in themselves determinative of the

issue of whether the action has a substantial connection with singapore.

the judge also held that the defendants were not entitled to rely on the

argument that their defences engaged issues of french law in support of

their position that the present action was an offshore case, because those

issues fell away when they decided not to adduce evidence of or prove any

issues of french law.




9           finally, the judge observed that while all cases in the sicc are

international and commercial in nature, not all such cases would be

offshore cases. hence, the fact that the suit had been transferred from the

singapore high court to the sicc was not relevant to the question of

whether it was an offshore case.




* this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court.