supreme court of singapore



6 march 2018



case summary




qilin world capital ltd v cpit investments ltd



cpit investments ltd v qilin world capital ltd



civil appeals nos 126 and 145 of 2017





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by international judge dyson

heydon):





outcome: coa allows appeal against decision that shares put up by

borrower as security for loan were “sold” when lender transferred them to

its brokerage account, dismisses cross appeal against decision that

lender’s sale of shares to third parties did not cause drop in share price.



pertinent and significant points of the judgment



· civil appeal no 126 of 2017 was allowed. the court held that the

appellant-lender did not “sell” itself shares which the respondent-borrower

put up as security for the loan when the lender transferred those shares

into its own brokerage account. the evidence suggested that the lender had

not intended to acquire full legal and beneficial ownership of the shares

through the transfer. the lender also did not receive any proceeds from the

transfer to which a constructive trust could attach. the order below that

the lender held the proceeds of the purported “sale” on trust for the

borrower was therefore set aside: at [47]–[52] and    [55].




· the cross appeal, civil appeal no 145 of 2017, was dismissed. the court

held that the borrower had failed to show that the drop in the value of its

shares was caused by the lender’s sales of the shares to third parties.

given that the share price was overinflated and that there were many other

factors affecting the share price, it could not be said that on a balance

of probabilities the share price would not have dropped but for the

lender’s sales: at [72].



 


background to the appeal



1          civil appeal nos 126 of 2017 and 145 of 2017 were cross-appeals by qilin

world capital ltd (“qilin”) and cpit investments ltd (“cpit”) respectively

against the decision of the international judge (“the judge”) in    cpit investments ltd v qilin world capital ltd and another [2017]

sghc(i) 05.



facts



2          qilin loaned hk$31.25 million to cpit under a stock secured financing

agreement (“the loan agreement") dated 16 november 2015. the loan was for a

term of 36 months. it was secured by 25 million shares (“the pledged

shares”) in millennium pacific group holdings limited (“millennium”)

belonging to cpit. the pledged shares were held in an account (“prominence

account 03”) with prominence financials ltd (“prominence”). cpit also owned

1.27 billion shares in millennium besides the pledged shares.




3          the loan was a non-recourse loan. this meant that if the sum was not

repaid, qilin could only enforce its rights against the pledged shares, and

could not pursue personal claims against cpit.




4          on 2 december 2015, qilin executed a transaction (“the 2 december

transaction”) by which it transferred the pledged shares from prominence

account 03 into another account with prominence in the name of “qilin sub

acct cpit invs ltd”, and thence to its own account with haitong

international securities. qilin also executed a sold note and bought note,

dated 2 december 2015, which stated that 25 million shares in millennium at

hk$2.50 each were transferred from “qilin sub acct cpit invs ltd” to qilin

for total consideration of hk$62.5 million. stamp duty was paid on the

transaction.




5          from 8 december 2015 to 14 january 2016, qilin sold 22.14 million of the

pledged shares on the open market. during this period, the market price of

millennium shares fell from hk$2.32 to hk$0.68. the value of cpit’s

shareholding in millennium (excluding the pledged shares) also fell. cpit

commenced proceedings against qilin claiming, among other things, that

qilin had breached the loan agreement, and that qilin held the proceeds of

its sales of the pledged shares on trust for cpit.




6          the judge found that the 2 december transaction was a breach of the loan

agreement. he noted that cl 5(f) of the loan agreement provided: “the

lender shall have the right to transfer, re-hypothecate and assign the

shares. in the event of a default, the lender shall have the right to

dispose of the shares.” as there had been no “event of default”, qilin had

no right to dispose of the pledged shares and was not entitled to sell them

“even to itself”. the judge also concluded that the sales of the pledged

shares on the open market from 8 december 2015 to 14 january 2016 were in

breach of the loan agreement.




7         the judge held that qilin held on constructive trust for cpit the sum of

hk$31.25 million, being the proceeds from the 2 december transaction

(hk$62.5 million) less the loan amount (hk$31.25 million). however, he

found that qilin’s sale of the pledged shares on the open market did not

cause the fall in millennium’s share price. he thus dismissed cpit’s claim

for damages for the decrease in value of its shares in millennium.




8          qilin appealed against the holding that it held hk$31.25 million on trust

for cpit. cpit appealed against the holding that the fall in millennium’s

share price was not caused by qilin’s sale of the pledged shares on the

open market.



decision on appeal



9         the court of appeal allowed qilin’s appeal and dismissed cpit’s

cross-appeal.



qilin’s appeal



10          with respect to qilin’s appeal, the court of appeal held that the

lawfulness of the 2 december transaction depended on whether it was a

disposal or a transfer of the pledged shares within the meaning of cl 5(f)

of the loan agreement (at [40]). the court agreed with the

judge’s view that the terms “transfer, re-hypothecate and assign” in the

first sentence of cl 5(f) were to be distinguished from the term “disposal”

in the second sentence. a transfer, re-hypothecation or assignment would be

subject to the beneficial rights and interest of cpit, whereas a disposal

was a conveyance of full unrestricted ownership which would destroy cpit’s

interest (at [40]).




11          it was thus necessary to determine whether qilin’s intention was to

acquire full legal and beneficial interest in the pledged shares through

the 2 december transaction, thereby destroying cpit’s rights and interest.

if this was qilin’s intention, the 2 december transaction would be a

“disposal” and not a mere transfer (at [41]).




12          the court of appeal held that qilin’s intention in the 2 december

transaction could not have been to acquire the whole legal and equitable

interest in the pledged shares. qilin had specifically sought to have a

buffer against the vagaries affecting the share price by ensuring that the

loan was secured by shares worth twice as much as the hk$31.25 million it

loaned to cpit. yet if the 2 december transaction was a “sale” of the

pledged shares by qilin to itself, qilin would have increased its exposure

by acquiring the pledged shares for the price of hk$62.5 million. it would

have taken on the equity risk in respect of the pledged shares to the tune

of hk$62.5 million, in addition to having already paid cpit the loan amount

of hk$31.25 million. if the pledged shares proved worthless, cpit would

lose the hk$62.5 million it “paid” for them, and would also have to pay

cpit hk$31.25 million (being the sale proceeds of hk$62.5 million less the

amount of the loan) because cpit’s position would have been crystallised by

the sale. it made no sense to conclude that qilin intended to increase its

exposure in this way (at [47(a)–47(c)] and    [47(e)]).




13         the court of appeal also noted that there was no evidence that

consideration of hk$62.5 million was actually paid. as qilin received no

proceeds from the transaction, there was nothing to which a constructive

trust could attach (at [48]).




14          qilin’s appeal was therefore allowed.



cpit’s cross-appeal



15         as for cpit’s cross-appeal on causation, the court of appeal held that

cpit had not proven that millennium’s share price would not have fallen but

for qilin’s wrongful sales of the pledged shares from 8 december 2015 to 14

january 2016.




16          the court gave the following reasons: first, the expert evidence was

that millennium was a “bubble stock”. second, only a tiny percentage of the

total number of shares in millennium was being sold each day. third, other

sellers had also sold large volumes of millennium shares during the

relevant period, and it was impossible to say that qilin’s sales, and not

others, caused the drop in share price. fourth, the movements in

millennium’s share price did not correspond with qilin’s decisions to sell

or not to sell. the price sometimes remained static or even rose despite

qilin’s sales. on other days, the price fell despite the fact that qilin

had not made any sales. fifth, the price at which shares are sold on a

particular day depended on many circumstances peculiar to that day. sixth,

the price of millennium shares had been on a downward trend for some time

before qilin’s first sale. seventh, while the experts had used language

which suggested that qilin’s sales led to the drop in millennium’s share

price, their evidence was insufficient to prove that cpit would not have

suffered the loss but for qilin’s sales. eighth, the expert evidence was

that there were a “myriad of factors” which caused the drop in share price.

ninth, the evidence did not bear out the suggestion that qilin’s initial

selling was a “trigger” which was the effective or dominant cause of the

later falls in millennium’s share price (at [72]).




17         cpit’s cross-appeal was therefore dismissed.



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.