supreme court of singapore



5 march 2018



case summary




ali bin mohamad bahashwan v public prosecutor and other appeals



criminal appeals nos 33, 34 and 35 of 2016





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice andrew phang boon

leong):





the court of appeal holds that a person who abets another to traffic drugs

to himself for his own consumption is not liable for drug trafficking

unless he himself intended to traffic in those drugs.




 1         this case involved three men who were convicted of trafficking in a

single bundle of diamorphine (that is, heroin) which was the subject of a

transaction in which they all were participants. two of them were sentenced

to death and one to life imprisonment. their appeals against their

convictions and sentences were dismissed by the court of appeal today.



background



2          on the evening of 23 october 2012, ali bin mohamad bahashwan (“ali”) told

his flatmate, selamat bin paki (“selamat”) to collect a bundle of drugs

from ragunath nair a/l janartanan (“ragunath”) at the void deck of a block

of flats in tampines. selamat did so, and was arrested before he could

deliver the drugs to ali. ali and ragunath were also arrested shortly

thereafter. the bundle contained not less than 27.12g of pure heroin, which

is an amount the trafficking of which warrants capital punishment.




3          ali was charged with abetting selamat to traffic in the heroin in the

bundle under s 5(1)(a) read with s 12 of the misuse of drugs act

(cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“the mda”). selamat and ragunath were charged with

trafficking in that same bundle of heroin under s 5(1)(a) of the

mda. all three were tried jointly in the high court. the high court judge

(“the judge”) convicted them on their charges. he passed the mandatory

death sentence on ali and selamat. as ragunath had been issued a

certificate of substantive assistance, the judge sentenced him to life

imprisonment and a mandatory 15 strokes of the cane. all three accused

persons appealed against their convictions and sentences.



ali’s and selamat’s appeals



4          generally speaking, the claim that the offending drugs were for one’s

personal consumption is a common answer to a charge of drug trafficking and

is known as the personal consumption defence. this case involved what the

court termed a joint personal consumption defence: ali’s and selamat’s case

was that they jointly intended to consume half the heroin in the

bundle and to sell the other half. that was said to take the amount of

heroin which ali was charged for having abetted selamat to traffic in, and

which selamat was charged for having trafficked in, below the amount

warranting capital punishment. advanced within the context of this case,

this defence raised two questions of law. first, as a matter of principle,

is it a valid defence for a person charged with abetting another to traffic

in drugs to claim that the offending drugs were meant for his own

consumption? second, is there such a thing in law as a joint personal

consumption defence?




5          on the first question, the court held, in agreement with the ruling of the high court in liew zheng yang v public prosecutor [2017] sghc 157 (“liew zheng yang”)

and contrary to the prosecution’s submission, that a person incurs no

criminal liability under s 5 read with s 12 of the mda for abetting another

to traffic drugs to himself if the drugs were meant for his own

consumption. the court referred to such a person as a

“consuming-recipient”. the rule is that where there is evidence that an

accused person was the intended recipient of drugs which he had allegedly

abetted another to traffic in, the court must be satisfied – and the

prosecution has to prove – beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused

himself had the intention to traffic in those drugs, before he can be

convicted on the abetment charge. in other words, he has to be shown not to

be a consuming-recipient. this rule is necessitated by the clear policy of

the mda, which draws a distinction between how addicts and traffickers are

to be treated and punished. ([3], [33] and [75])




6          the court held that there were two main reasons why the mda’s policy had

to inform and, indeed, modify the elements of the offence of abetting

another to traffic in drugs in this specific factual context:




(a)          first, the question whether a consuming-recipient may be guilty of

abetting another to traffic drugs to himself essentially involves the

question whether s 12 of the mda makes an abettor liable to be punished as

if he had committed an offence under the mda which he as principal could

not, by the very terms of that offence, have committed. this is a question

that should and must be answered with reference to the policy of the mda. (    [36], [40], [47] and [48])




(b)          second – and this is a principle that buttresses the first reason and

further justifies the need to look at the mda’s policy – the common law

contains a specialised rule of statutory interpretation that invites the

court to look at how the legislature intended to deal with conduct which is

inevitably incidental to a statutory offence before deciding whether such

conduct is criminalised and, if so, how. by way of example, prostitution is

conduct which is an inevitable incident of the statutory offence of living

on the earnings of a prostitute; but prostitution is not itself intended by

parliament to be criminalised, certainly not through accessory liability

for that statutory offence. similarly, the intended receipt of drugs is

conduct which is an inevitable incident of the statutory offence of

trafficking, and it is therefore necessary to ask how the legislature

intended to deal with such receipt in so far as the recipient participated

in the trafficking offence, especially when he is a mere addict. otherwise,

as even the prosecution accepted, virtually every person in possession of

drugs for his own consumption would be liable for abetting another to

traffic in drugs. ([49], [55], [57], [59], [62] and [63])




7          in that regard, the court observed that it is well-established that the

mda is intended to operate differentially as between drug traffickers and

drug addicts. this distinction has been expressly and repeatedly

articulated in relevant ministerial statements with regard to the mda, and

is captured in the mda’s provision not only for more severe penalties for

drug traffickers compared to drug addicts but also for rehabilitative

measures for the latter group. the centrality of this distinction to the

mda’s policy and the absence of any evidence of legislative intention that

a consuming-recipient should be treated as a trafficker led the court to

the view that parliament cannot have intended to criminalise

consuming-recipients under the offence of drug trafficking. and that is why

the rule in liew zheng yang was held to be correct. (    [65], [67] and [74])




8          in so far as the second question is concerned, the court disagreed with

the judge, and held that there is no such thing as a joint

personal consumption defence: each accused person must be treated

individually and independently for the purpose of the charge which has been

brought against him. therefore, the amount that ali intended to consume

could not be credited to selamat, and vice versa, for the purpose of either

of their attempts to establish that the portion of the heroin intended for

personal consumption takes its total quantity below the amount warranting

capital punishment. ([3] and [98])




9          turning to the merits of their appeals, the court observed that the judge

was wrong to consider ali as being presumed under s 17 of the mda to have

the intention of trafficking in the offending drugs. the presumption under

s 17 arises upon the fact of possession of the offending drugs. as ali

never came into possession of the offending bundle of heroin, he cannot be

presumed to have had the intention to traffic in it. the judge was correct,

however, to proceed on the basis that that presumption applies to selamat

because selamat was in possession of the bundle. (    [92] and [95])




10          nevertheless, the court was of the view that ali’s and selamat’s appeals

had no merit. to begin with, there was no factual basis in the idea that

ali and selamat jointly intended to consume half the heroin in the bundle.

it was ali who paid for and had full ownership over the heroin in the

bundle, and selamat had a mere expectation to receive some amount of heroin

from ali in exchange for making drug deliveries. there was also no

reasonable doubt that ali intended to traffic in the bulk of the heroin in

the bundle in so far as he intended (a) to sell at least half the bundle

for profit and (b) to give a substantial portion of the remaining heroin to

selamat. furthermore, the assertion that half the bundle was intended to be

consumed by them was incredible because it did not match their own evidence

on their rate of consumption and the number of days the supply was meant

for. ([98], [99] and [105])




11          therefore, in so far as ali is concerned, he was not a

consuming-recipient and could obtain no assistance from the rule in    liew zheng yang. in so far as selamat was concerned, he had failed

to rebut the presumption of trafficking under s 17 of the mda because the

evidence showed that he intended to transport the bundle to ali. his motive

for doing so – that is, to obtain heroin from ali as a reward – was

irrelevant to the charge as it showed only that he was a courier, not that

he was not a trafficker. for these reasons, the court dismissed ali’s and

selamat’s appeals against their convictions and sentences. (    [3], [101] and [103])



ragunath’s appeal



12          the court noted that the judge correctly held that ragunath is presumed

under s 18(2) of the mda to know that the bundle contained heroin. the key

issue in his appeal was therefore whether he could rebut that presumption

on the balance of probabilities. ([115])




13          the court held that he failed to do so, largely for the reasons given by

the judge. in particular, various material inconsistencies in his evidence

strongly suggest that his account of being under the impression that he was

helping a friend deliver a bundle of medicine is unbelievable. for example,

at the time he was arrested, he told the central narcotics bureau that he

thought that the bundle contained foodstuff. it was only later – in his

long statements and at trial – that he claimed that it contained medicine

for the elderly, which suggests that that claim is an afterthought. text

messages found in his mobile phone also indicate that he had previously

visited the place where he delivered the bundle to selamat, and this

contradicts his claim that 23 october 2012 was his first time there.

accordingly the court dismissed his appeal against his conviction. (    [128], [129], [130] and [134])




14          the court also dismissed his appeal against his sentence because the

judge imposed the minimum possible sentence in law. ([139]

)



 




this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s

grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the

reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets

refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of

decision.