supreme court of singapore
13 february

2019 
case summary
shanghai turbo enterprises ltd v liu ming

[2018] sgca 11 
civil appeal 87 of 2018 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
decision of the court of appeal

(delivered by justice judith prakash):
outcome: coa allows appeal against

decision to set aside an order granting to leave to serve a writ out of

jurisdiction. 
1 this

was an appeal against the decision of a high court judge to set aside an

assistant registrar’s order that the appellant be granted leave to serve a writ

outside of singapore on the respondent.
background

to the appeal 
2 the

appellant, shanghai turbo enterprises ltd (“shanghai turbo”), is a company incorporated in the cayman islands

and listed on the singapore stock exchange. it also owns a hong

kong-incorporated company, which in turn owns a china-incorporated company. all

three companies form a group which is in the business of precision engineering

(at [5]).
3         3 the

respondent, mr liu ming, owns about 30% of the shares in shanghai turbo. he was

also its executive director from november 2005 to april 2007, and its chief

executive officer from january 2010 to april 2017. he also held other

managerial positions in the group’s other companies. in april 2017, mr liu was

removed from all his executive and managerial positions in the group (at [6]). 
4 subsequently,

shanghai turbo commenced suit no 571 of 2017 (“suit 571/2017”) against mr liu

for various alleged breaches of a service agreement that he had with them in

relation to his appointment as their executive director (“the service agreement”).

as mr liu resides in china, shanghai turbo applied and obtained the court’s

leave to serve the relevant cause papers on mr liu in china (“the service

order”). it also obtained a mareva injunction against mr liu, which prevented

him from dealing with his assets in singapore, as well as an injunction against

mr liu and two other shareholders of shanghai turbo which prevented the trio

from exercising some of their rights attached to their shares in the company (“the

voting injunction”). however, mr liu made a successful application to the high

court to have the service order set aside. in the course of the proceedings, he

also supported an application by the two other shareholders for an injunction

against shanghai turbo (“the non-parties’ application”), and to have the voting

injunction varied. shanghai turbo then appealed against the high court judge’s

decision to set aside the service order (at [7]-[19]). 
reasons

for the court’s decision 
5 the

court of appeal allowed shanghai turbo’s appeal and restored the service order

as well as the various injunctions against mr liu (at [108]).
6 it

observed that mr liu’s support of the non-parties’ application, even though he

was not compelled to respond or participate in it, unequivocally signified his

acceptance and invocation of the singapore court’s jurisdiction to try suit

571/2017 (at [33] and [39]). on this basis alone the singapore high court had

jurisdiction to hear suit 571/2017 (at [48]).
7 the

court of appeal also observed that this was a proper case for the granting of

leave to serve a writ out of jurisdiction under o 11 r 1 of the rules of court

(cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev ed) (“the roc”) for three reasons.
a.    first, singapore law arguably governed

the service agreement between shanghai turbo and mr liu, thereby fulfilling the

requirement under o 11 r 1(d)(iii) of the roc (at [50]-[52]); 
b.    second, o 11 rr 1(d)(iv) and (r) were

also satisfied since mr liu had agreed to submit to the singapore courts’

jurisdiction to hear any suit between himself and shanghai turbo that arose out

of the service agreement. this submission by mr liu arose from a non-exclusive

jurisdiction clause contained in the service agreement, where the parties

agreed to submit to the singapore courts’ non-exclusive jurisdiction. in

arriving at this conclusion, the court of appeal  gave  guidance

on the legal effect of non-exclusive jurisdiction clauses. these are clauses

which name a jurisdiction to which the parties agree to submit any dispute that

arises on the basis that it need not be the only jurisdiction that will be

competent to hear the case. the court also discussed the circumstances in which,

when sued in an agreed jurisdiction, the defending party may be released from

its contractual obligation to submit to that court’s jurisdiction. the court

held that such a party may be released from its contractual obligation to

submit to the agreed upon jurisdiction if it could show strong cause why it

should not be held to that obligation. it found that on the facts of this case mr

liu had failed to show strong cause as to why he should be released from his contractual

obligation to submit to the singapore courts’ jurisdiction (at [81]-[84],

[86]-[88], and [94]-[96]).
c.     finally, shanghai turbo had fulfilled

its obligation to make full and frank disclosure when applying for leave to

serve the relevant cause papers in s 571/2017 out of singapore (at [103]-[107]).


   this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.