supreme court of

singapore

20 october 2017 
media summary
lam kwok tai leslie v

singapore medical council 
[2017] sghc 260
originating summons no 11 of 2016 
decision of the high court (delivered by

sundaresh menon cj)
1          this was an appeal by dr lam kwok tai leslie

(“dr lam”), a cardiologist in private practice, against his conviction by

a disciplinary tribunal (“dt”) appointed by the singapore medical council (“the

smc”) of one charge of professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the medical registration act

(cap 174, 2004 rev ed) (“the mra”) for having failed to obtain

informed consent from a patient (“the patient”) prior to carrying out an

invasive procedure known as a percutaneous coronary intervention (“pci”), in

breach of guideline 4.2.2 of the 2002 edition of the smc’s ethical code

and ethical guidelines (“the smc eceg”). dr lam was acquitted of two other

charges which had been brought against him. the dt sentenced dr lam to

three months’ suspension from practice, and also ordered him to pay one-third

of the costs and expenses of the inquiry to the smc. 
2          dr lam appealed against his conviction, and, in the

alternative, against his three-month suspension sentence on the basis that if

his conviction were upheld, he should be sentenced to a fine instead. the main

issue in the appeal was whether the dt erred in finding professional misconduct

on dr lam’s part.  
the material facts 
3          a pci is a procedure used to open a blocked coronary artery

by placing stents, which are small mesh tubes, in the

affected artery to support its inner wall. 
4          the patient’s complaint arose from

dr lam’s management of his condition in march 2011. the patient had a

history of coronary artery disease, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia. he had

previously undergone a pci at raffles hospital in 2006, when three stents had

been inserted. in march 2011, the patient visited singapore and sought a

suitable doctor to provide follow-up treatment.  
5          the patient had three consultations with dr lam before

the pci was carried out. at the first consultation, a number of tests,

including a computed tomography (“ct”) angiogram, were carried out to establish

the patient’s condition. the results of the ct angiogram became available the

following day, which was the day of the second consultation. although the

patient’s coronary arteries appeared to be in good condition, dr lam told

the patient that he did not consider the ct angiogram results to be

sufficiently reliable, and advised him to undergo a conventional angiogram as

well. dr lam also informed the patient that he should proceed with a pci

if any high-grade stenosis were found in the course of the conventional

angiogram. the second consultation ended with the patient leaving to consider

dr lam’s advice. at the third consultation, dr lam again informed the

patient of his view that the findings from the ct angiogram were not

sufficiently reliable, and recommended that the patient undergo a conventional

angiogram and, if necessary, a pci. the patient accepted dr lam’s advice,

and agreed to undergo a conventional angiogram and, if necessary, a pci. he

then signed a consent form for a “coronary angiogram keep in view coronary

angioplasty” (“the kiv form”) at dr lam’s clinic. it was dr lam’s

case that at the first and third consultations, he explained to the patient the

benefits, risks and possible complications of a pci as well as the alternative

treatment options available (collectively “the pci benefits, risks,

complications and alternatives”).  
6          the conventional angiogram was carried out on 18 march

2011. immediately after the conventional angiogram, dr lam told the

patient that there was high-grade stenosis in his proximal left anterior

descending artery, and advised him that that artery could be opened up by carrying

out a pci. the patient agreed to let dr lam perform the procedure immediately.

this was then done. the following day, dr lam informed the patient that

two stents had been inserted because the first stent had missed the site of the

stenosis, thus necessitating a second stent. the second stent had slipped back

proximally and protruded partially into the left main stem. it was not disputed

in the appeal that despite this, the patient did not suffer any harm as a

result of dr lam’s actions and his condition in fact improved. 
7          the patient nevertheless lodged a complaint against

dr lam with the smc on 17 august 2011 alleging that dr lam had

performed the pci when it was unnecessary, and, further, that in doing so, he

had failed to apply the requisite skill. the patient also mentioned in his

complaint that dr lam had carried out the pci “without even once …

informing [him] or explaining to [him]” the pci benefits, risks, complications

and alternatives. in response to the complaint, dr lam tendered a written

explanation (the “explanatory statement”) to the smc. on 25 september

2015, more than four years after the patient lodged his complaint, the smc sent

dr lam a notice of inquiry setting out three charges, including the charge

for professional misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of the mra for having failed to

“adequately advise the patient of all the benefits, risks and possible

complications of the [pci] procedure and any alternatives available to him”

(“charge 3”). that charge was the sole subject matter of dr lam’s appeal.


8          it was undisputed that dr lam’s clinical notes from

his consultations with the patient did not record that he had explained the pci

benefits, risks, complications and alternatives to the patient. however, it was

also undisputed that the patient had signed the kiv form, which stated in

general terms that the patient had been informed of “the nature, purpose, risks

and alternatives” pertaining to a pci. 
the court’s decision  
9          the court allowed dr lam’s appeal and set aside his

conviction on charge 3. it also set aside the dt’s orders on the sentence

and the costs of the inquiry below. 
10        the following aspects of the court’s

judgment (“the judgment”) should be noted in particular: 
(a)               

the court took issue with the

ambiguous manner in which charge 3 had been framed (see para 11 of

this media summary);
(b)              

the court did not find

dr lam’s record-keeping satisfactory, but held that the dt had placed undue

emphasis on the lack of contemporaneous documentation of consent-taking in

convicting dr lam on charge 3 (see paras 15 and 18 of this media

summary); 
(c)               

the court stated that it would

expect the smc to consider preferring charges for failure to keep proper

records in the light of the new requirement relating to record-keeping in the 2016

edition of the smc eceg (see para 15 of this media summary); 
(d)              

the court held that the nature

of a doctor’s obligation under guideline 4.2.2 of the smc eceg was to

ensure that the patient was aware of “the benefits, risks and possible complications

of the procedure and any alternatives available to him”, but that did not mean

that the doctor had to mechanically recite such information to the patient without

regard to what the patient already knew (see para 21 of this media

summary); and 
(e)               

the court made some observations regarding the sentencing approach

which should be adopted in disciplinary proceedings against doctors for failure

to obtain informed consent, and also urged the smc to review its processes to

avoid inordinate delays in future disciplinary proceedings (see

paras 24–26 of this media summary). 
the manner in which

charge 3 had been framed
11        the court expressed its dissatisfaction

with the ambiguous manner in which charge 3 had been framed, pointing out

that it was open to at least two possible interpretations. the court reiterated

the importance of framing charges in criminal or quasi-criminal proceedings

with sufficient specificity so that the respondent would be aware of the exact

case which he had to meet (see [31]

and [33] of the judgment).    
the reasons for the court’s

decision
12        the court held that dr lam’s

conviction was unsafe as the dt had failed to give proper consideration to the

following points (see [36] of the judgment):
(a)        the patient’s overall credibility, in

view of the inconsistencies in his evidence as well as in the light of how the

dt had received his evidence on the other charges against dr lam; 
(b)        the kiv form

evidencing dr lam’s case that the patient had been advised of the pci

benefits, risks, complications and alternatives, which had to be carefully

considered in the context of the applicable burden of proof; 
(c)        dr lam’s unchallenged evidence as

to his usual practice in obtaining the informed consent of his patients; 
(d)       dr lam’s explanation for the brevity

of his explanatory statement in relation to charge 3; and 
(f)               

the patient’s own awareness of the relevant benefits, risks,

complications and alternative treatment options. 
preliminary observations by the court
13        before analysing the above matters in

detail, the court made two preliminary observations. 
14        first, it cautioned that where a court

or tribunal was concerned with the standard of proof beyond reasonable doubt,

it should be mindful that this standard was unlikely to be satisfied if all

that was before it were two competing and equally plausible versions of the

material facts: in re bramblevale

ltd [1970] 1 ch 128 (see [38]–[39] of the judgment). 
15        second, it noted that the dt had treated

the lack of contemporaneous documentation of consent-taking by dr lam as

virtually conclusive of the smc’s case on charge 3, and held that this approach

was “erroneous as a matter of principle” (see [37] of the judgment). the court explained that since dr lam

had been charged with failure to obtain the patient’s informed consent as

opposed to failure to maintain proper documentation, the lack of

contemporaneous documentation of consent-taking, although relevant to

charge 3, was merely one factor

to be considered in the light of the

totality of the other evidence before the dt. the court, however, also affirmed

at the same time the importance of proper record-keeping by doctors, stating

that it was crucial for doctors to keep accurate and contemporaneous records of

each and every consultation as such records would serve as a safeguard against

disputes similar to that in the present case from arising (see [37] and [44]–[45] of the judgment).

the court also noted the new requirement in the 2016 edition of the smc eceg

that doctors had to keep “clear, legible, accurate and contemporaneous medical

records of sufficient detail”, and observed that it would expect the smc to consider

preferring charges for failure to keep proper records in cases similar to the

present case in future (see [46] of

the judgment). 
failure to consider the

patient’s credibility as a whole
16        the court was of the view that on a fair

reading of the patient’s complaint, its sting lay not in dr lam’s alleged failure to inform the patient of

the pci benefits, risks, complications and alternatives, but rather, in

dr lam’s alleged conduct in essentially pushing and railroading the

patient into undergoing an unnecessary and “shoddily done” procedure for

monetary gain. the allegation of failure to obtain informed consent was

appended almost as an afterthought. this had a material bearing on how the dt

ought to have approached the evidence on charge 3, which turned

essentially on whether the dt preferred dr lam’s or the patient’s competing

versions of the material events. 
17        the court held that in considering

charge 3, the dt should have taken into account: (a) how it had

received the patient’s evidence on the other two charges against dr lam as

those charges formed a much larger part of the dispute; and (b) the fact

that it had rejected the patient’s testimony on those charges. the court was of

the view that the dt should have explained why, despite its rejection of the

patient’s testimony on those charges, it nonetheless preferred his testimony on

charge 3 (see [50] of the judgment).

the court stated that if the dt had considered the patient’s testimony in its

entirety, it was implausible that the dt would have accepted the patient’s

version of the material events so readily (see [54] of the judgment). 
failure to give sufficient consideration to the kiv form and to correctly apply the burden of proof 
18        with regard to the kiv form, the court

considered that this form was not prolix; neither was the material clause

therein – namely, that the patient understood “the nature, purpose, risks and

alternatives which were explained to [him] by dr lam” – buried in fine

print. given these circumstances, it was incumbent on the dt to apply its mind

to why the patient would have signed the kiv form, even as he maintained that

the very thing which the form said had happened (the explanation of the

aforesaid “nature, purpose, risks and alternatives” to him) had not in fact

happened (see [58] of the judgment).

reading the dt’s written decision, the court held that it was driven to

conclude that the dt convicted dr lam on charge 3 based almost

entirely on the lack of documentation of consent-taking alone (see [60] of the judgment).

this was erroneous for two reasons. first, charge 3 was not one of failing

to document the taking of the patient’s consent; the dt had also overlooked the

fact that the kiv form was, on its face, documentary evidence that dr lam had explained to the patient the pci

benefits, risks, complications and alternatives (see [61] of the judgment). second, the dt failed to consider the absence

of documentation of consent-taking as merely one factor in the overall balance (see [63] of the judgment). it did not address the critical issue of why

the patient, whom it found to be confident, knowledgeable, unafraid to raise

issues concerning his medical condition with his doctor and clear about what he

wanted, would, over the course of three consultations, have neglected to make a

single inquiry about the pci benefits, risks, complications and alternatives

(many of which he was found to have been already aware of) and then merely

signed the kiv form indicating that these matters had been explained to him by

dr lam if no such explanation had in fact been given to him (see [64] of the judgment). 
failure to consider dr lam’s unchallenged evidence on his

consistent practice in relation to consent-taking
19        the court held that the dt failed to

consider dr lam’s unchallenged evidence that his consistent practice was

to explain the “benefits, risks and possible complications” of coronary

procedures such as conventional angiograms and pcis to his patients before

carrying out the procedures (see [67]

of the judgment). the court accepted that dr lam was driven at one point

to base his evidence in this regard on his usual practice, but did not consider

that surprising because dr lam had explained that he could not claim to

have a specific recollection of a particular conversation relating to

consent-taking which had occurred some years earlier (see [71] of the judgment). 
failure to consider dr lam’s explanation for the lack of

details on consent-taking in his explanatory statement 
20        the court was of the view that the dt

failed to assess in the right context dr lam’s explanation for the

contrast in the level of detail between his explanatory statement, which was

fairly brief and prepared closer to the time of his consultations with the

patient, and his statement of evidence-in-chief, which was much more detailed

and prepared closer to the time of the inquiry, where charge 3 was

concerned. the dt erred in finding that in the explanatory statement, dr lam

“made no mention … that he [had] told

the patient of the risks, complications and alternatives of a pci” [emphasis

added] when dr lam had in fact done so (see [73] of the judgment). further, the dt failed to give sufficient

weight to dr lam’s testimony as to why his explanatory statement was so

brief in responding to the allegation of failure to obtain informed consent (see

[74] of the judgment). the court was

of the view that dr lam’s explanation for this – namely, that he perceived

the sting of the complaint against him to be directed at his clinical expertise

and management of the patient rather than his alleged failure to obtain the

patient’s informed consent – was not unreasonable, given that the court took a

similar view on the essence of the complaint (see [76] of the judgment).  
failure to take into account the patient’s own

knowledge
21        the court held that the dt erred in considering

that the patient’s own knowledge about the pci benefits, risks, complications

and alternatives was irrelevant to its assessment of charge 3. guideline 4.2.2

of the smc eceg, which was mirrored in charge 3, required that it be

proved that dr lam had failed to “ensure that the patient was adequately

informed about his medical condition and options for treatment”. this guideline

did not impose an absolute and unyielding obligation on dr lam to mechanically

explain all the pci benefits, risks,

complications and alternatives to the patient regardless of his existing

knowledge; instead, it imposed on him only an obligation to ensure that the patient was apprised of

the relevant information about pcis. this obligation would be satisfied if

dr lam had reasonable grounds to

believe that the patient was already well-acquainted with such information (see

[77] of the judgment). the court,

however, also emphasised that where a doctor sought to defend himself against a

charge of failure to obtain informed consent on the basis that the patient was

already familiar with the relevant benefits, risks, complications and

alternative treatment options, the burden was on the doctor to demonstrate that

he had reasonable grounds for believing that the patient was already

sufficiently informed of those matters. in the present case, it was clear that

the patient already had considerable knowledge of the pci benefits, risks,

complications and alternatives as he had previously undergone the same

procedure in 2006; and dr lam would have been aware of the patient’s

knowledge in that regard, given that he had not only taken down the patient’s

medical history but had also had “three full sessions to discuss pci with [the

patient]” (see [78] of the judgment).  
22        the court was of the view that in order

for the smc to sustain its case on charge 3 in the way that it had chosen

to run it, the smc would have had to establish not only that no discussion

between dr lam and the patient on the pci benefits, risks, complications

and alternatives had taken place at all, but also that dr lam, despite his

interactions with the patient over the course of three consultations, had no

reasonable grounds for thinking that the patient had any of the knowledge about

pcis that he in fact had. the court found this improbable in the light of the

dt’s strong findings on the knowledge which the patient already had in this

regard and the patient’s attitude during his interactions with dr lam (see

[80] of the judgment).  
general observations

on sentencing 
23        given the court’s decision to acquit dr lam

of charge 3, the question of sentence did not arise. nevertheless, the

court made some brief observations on the sentencing approach which should have

been adopted in this case. 
24        first, the court noted that it had taken

“an inordinately long time” for the patient’s complaint to reach the court, and

pointed out that a delay of this nature could lead to a reduction in sentence

where a doctor was convicted at the end of the disciplinary proceedings against

him. the court urged the smc to scrutinise its procedures in disciplinary

proceedings so as to avoid such delays in future (see [84] of the judgment). 
25        second, given that the maximum fine prescribed

in s 53(2)(e)

of the mra for an offence of professional misconduct had been increased from

$10,000 to $100,000 in 2010, a doctor who had previously been sentenced to the

statutory minimum period of three months’ suspension could now possibly be sentenced

instead to a high fine, perhaps one at the higher end of the enhanced range

prescribed in s 53(2)(e) (see [88] of the judgment).  
26        finally, the court stated that a dt

which was faced with the task of sentencing an errant doctor for professional

misconduct under s 53(1)(d) of

the mra in the form of a failure to obtain informed consent should consider the

following non-exhaustive list of factors in sentencing (see [90] of the judgment): 
(a)               

the materiality of the

information that was not explained to the patient; 
(b)              

the extent to which the

patient’s autonomy to make an informed decision on his own treatment had been undermined

as a result of the doctor’s failure to explain the necessary information; and 
(c)               

the possibility of harm and, where applicable, the materiality of the

harm which resulted from the doctor’s failure to explain the necessary

information. 
conclusion
27        for the foregoing reasons, the court

allowed dr lam’s appeal and set aside the dt’s orders on the sentence as

well as the costs of the inquiry. 

this summary is provided to assist in the

understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute

for the reasons of the court.