pua hung jaan jeffrey nguyen v public prosecutor 
 
supreme court of

singapore

4 october 2017 
media summary
pua hung jaan jeffrey nguyen v public prosecutor 
magistrate’s appeal no 9043 of 2017/01 
decision of the high court (delivered by

sundaresh menon cj)
1                   

the appellant, pua hung jaan jeffrey nguyen (the

“appellant”), pleaded guilty to a single charge of driving while having

excessive alcohol in his breath or blood under s 67(1)(b) of the road traffic act (cap 276, 2004 rev ed) (the “rta”). the

district judge (the “district judge”) sentenced him to one week’s imprisonment

and disqualified him from holding or obtaining all classes of driving licences

for a period of 30 months with effect from the date of release.
2                   

magistrate’s appeal no 9043 of

2017/01 was the appellant’s appeal against the sentence imposed on him by the

district judge. it was opposed by the respondent, the public prosecutor (the

“respondent”). what stood out on the facts was the appellant’s previous

conviction, in 2012, for an offence of being in charge of a motor vehicle while

under the influence of drink under s 68(1)(b) of the rta. the central question that

was raised was whether the custodial threshold had been crossed.
background to the appeal 
3                   

the appellant, an american

citizen and singapore permanent resident, was 34 years old at the time of the

offence. at about 4.50am on 29 october 2016, the appellant was driving his car

along whitley road when he was stopped at a police road block. the appellant

smelt strongly of alcohol. a breathalyser test was administered and the

appellant’s alcohol level was found to be excessive. he was placed under arrest

and escorted to the traffic police department for a breath evidential analyser

(“bea”) test. the bea test revealed that the proportion of alcohol in the

appellant’s breath was 70μg of alcohol per 100ml of breath. this far exceeded

the prescribed limit of 35μg of alcohol per 100ml of breath set out in s

72(1) of the rta. investigations revealed that the appellant had been at the

pan pacific hotel at about 11.00pm on 28 october 2016, where he had consumed

about three glasses of champagne.
decision on appeal 
4                   

the court held that the

starting point of the analysis was the fact that imprisonment was not mandatory

in what it termed “scenario 4”. scenario 4 was the scenario where an offender

with an antecedent under s 68(1) of the rta was subsequently convicted under s

67(1) of the rta. it was also the scenario within which the present case fell.

a sentencing court faced with a scenario 4 offender had a choice whether to

impose a fine and a period of disqualification or a term of imprisonment and a

period of disqualification. suse nathen v public prosecutor [2013] 4 slr 1139 and then enhance the sentence derived from that

framework to take account of the appellant’s antecedent. ([8]–[9] and [52])
5                   

the court noted that the

difficulty with that and, in a sense, the strongest point in the respondent’s

favour, was the comparison which scenario 4 invited with what the court termed

“scenario 2”. scenario 2 was the scenario where an offender with an antecedent

under s 68(1) of the rta was subsequently convicted under the same provision.

the court observed that there was attraction in the notion that the statutory

framework in respect of offences under ss 67(1) and

68(1) of the rta could not be ignored and should be taken into account. in this

context, a comparison with scenario 2 pointed towards the imposition of a

custodial sentence in the present case. in particular, the court noted that it was

somewhat anomalous that imprisonment was mandatory in scenario 2 but not in

scenario 4, even though, all other things being equal, a scenario 4 offender

would generally be more culpable than a scenario 2 offender. this was because

the second offence in scenario 4 (which was an offence under s 67(1) of the

rta) was a more serious offence than the second offence in scenario 2 (which was

an offence under s 68(1) of the rta). thus, if a custodial sentence were the

starting point in scenario 4, this might go some way towards alleviating this

anomaly. ([8]–[9], [38] and [53])
6                   

however, the court emphasised

that in fact imprisonment was not mandatory in scenario 4. the court held that

it would not be correct for the courts to regard a custodial sentence as the

starting point in scenario 4. to do so would come dangerously close to

regarding imprisonment as mandatory in scenario 4 when the current statutory

framework did not require this. although this anomaly was likely to have been

the result of legislative oversight, the court did not think that it would be

appropriate to adopt a rectifying construction against the appellant when what was

in question was a penal provision, and when there was an absence of clear

evidence of parliament’s intent. ([54])
7                   

in addition, the court observed

that the precedents cited by the appellant involving two charges under s 67(1)(b) of the rta

being prosecuted at the same hearing also pointed strongly against the

imposition of a custodial sentence. the court saw neither reason nor basis for

imposing a custodial sentence in the present case when a non-custodial sentence

was imposed in respect of the later offence in these precedents, even though

they were more aggravated. moreover, this had not only been the sentencing

practice of the courts; it also appeared to have been the practice of the

respondent to not seek a custodial sentence in such cases. ([56])
8                   

given that imprisonment was not

mandatory in scenario 4, the court took the view that to determine whether the

custodial threshold had been crossed, it had to consider the facts and

circumstances of the present scenario 4 case rather than the sentence

prescribed for some other combination of offences. the court held that in the

present case, the degree of harm caused and the appellant’s culpability pointed

against the imposition of a custodial sentence, and that this ultimately tilted

the balance in favour of the appellant. there was no actual harm caused by the

offence as the appellant had been apprehended in the course of a road block and,

while the appellant’s alcohol level was certainly on the high side, there was

no evidence that the manner of his driving was particularly dangerous. ([49] and [57])
9                   

in the circumstances, the court

allowed the appeal. the court set aside the sentence of one week’s imprisonment

imposed by the district judge and substituted this with the maximum fine of

$5,000. the period of disqualification was to remain, except that it was to

take effect immediately. ([59])
this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the

court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding

paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.