supreme court of singapore2 february 2023case summarynewspaper seng logistics pte ltd v chiap seng productions pte ltd    [2023] sghc(a) 5--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by debbie ong siew ling jad):outcome: appellate division of the high court allows application for extension of time to file and serve a notice of appeal out of time. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the court’s power under o 19 r 25 of the rules of court 2021 (“roc 2021”) to grant an applicant permission to file and serve a notice of appeal out of time is discretionary. the exercise of discretion is governed by the overriding objective of finality in litigation and by the general principles underlying the appeal regime, and is guided by the following factors: (a) the length of delay; (b) the reasons for the delay; (c) the applicant’s chances of success on appeal; and (d) any prejudice that the respondent would suffer if an extension of time is granted.•  timelines in court orders and procedural rules must be complied with as there is interest in the rules being obeyed. on the other hand, there is also the overriding consideration to deal justly with applications that missed the deadline, so that if fairness demands that an extension of time should be given, discretion would be exercised accordingly. •  where parties attribute their non-compliance with the procedural rules to a lack of familiarity with the new procedural framework, such as the roc 2021, which came into effect on 1 april 2022, the court will consider the alleged difficulty or complexity in how the procedural rules are to apply.•  where the application for extension of time concerns the filing and service of a notice of appeal, the circumstances to support an extension of time would need to be more compelling than required in a situation where a notice of appeal has already been filed and served but the appellant is late in submitting, for instance, its record of appeal.background to the appeal1 this was an application for an extension of time to file and serve a notice of appeal out of time against the decision of the general division of the high court (the “high court”) in chiap seng productions pte ltd v newspaper seng logistics pte ltd [2002] sghc 202, delivered on 22 august 2022. the judge of the high court (the “judge”) had decided in favour of the respondent.2 pursuant to o 19 r 25(1)(a) of the roc 2021, a notice of appeal to the appellate division of the high court (the “court”) should have been filed and served on the respondent within 28 days after the date of the decision, which meant the applicant should have done so by 19 september 2022. however, the applicant only attempted to file its notice of appeal on 20 september 2022. the applicant’s filing was rejected for being out of time. on 21 september 2022, the applicant filed the present application to seek an extension of time to file and serve its notice of appeal out of time.3 the applicant contended that the extension should be allowed because, among other things, the delay was very short, being only of one day, and the delay was attributable to a genuine mistake by one of its solicitors in assuming that the appeal would be governed by the rules of court (2014 rev ed) (“roc 2014”) rather than roc 2021, the former being the predecessor legislation of the latter. the applicant asked that the court take into account the difficulties that its solicitors faced in navigating the relatively new regime of the roc 2021.     the court’s decision4 the court exercised its discretion to allow the extension of time for the applicant to file and serve its notice of appeal out of time. in so deciding, the court was guided by the four factors which were of equal importance: (a) the length of delay; (b) the reasons for the delay; (c) the applicant’s chances of success on appeal; and (d) any prejudice that the respondent would suffer if an extension of time is granted. 5 in respect of the length of delay, the court considered that the delay of one day was considered to be a very short one in the context of a 28-day timeline. 6 in relation to the reason for delay, the court observed that the applicant’s solicitor’s mistake was attributable not to difficulty in navigating the roc 2021, but in failing to apply her mind to the question of whether the roc 2014 or the roc 2021 was applicable, among other things. the court emphasised that the courts will not be as sympathetic towards mistakes made after the transitional learning phase for the roc 2021, which was from 1 april 2022 to 30 june 2022. 7 the court also considered the applicant’s chances of success on appeal, having regard to the facts of the case, the judge’s findings, and the applicant’s intended appeal. the court concluded that having regard to the proper threshold of whether the appeal was one that was “hopeless”, the applicant’s case could not be said to be hopeless. 8 finally, the court considered whether the respondent would suffer any prejudice should the extension of time be granted. the court reiterated that it is insufficient to refer to the fact that the appeal would thereby continue if the extension is granted. on the facts of the present case, the court was of the view that the respondent had not pointed to any prejudice that it would suffer that cannot be compensated by costs.    9 after considering all the relevant factors and circumstances, the court exercised its discretion to allow the applicant to file and serve its notice of appeal out of time. the court cautioned that this should not give anyone the impression that the courts will be more sympathetic when dealing with non-compliance even months after the roc 2021 has been in force. all four factors are equally important and must be applied to the facts of each case.this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.