supreme court of singapore31 january 2023case summarycfj and another v cfl and another [2023] sghc(i)1sic/os 7/2020, sic/os 8/2020, sic/os 9/2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by kannan ramesh jad):outcome: the singapore international commercial court (“sicc”) dismissed the plaintiffs’ applications to set aside the arbitral awards made against it.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the arbitration proceeded on a memorials-based process and thus did not involve “pleadings” in the formal, commonly understood sense of the term in court proceedings. any reference to “pleadings” was no more than a convenient analogy when lawyers from common law traditions were primarily involved. the scope of a tribunal’s jurisdiction is not necessarily limited by the “pleadings”. a practical view must be taken regarding the substance of the dispute being referred to arbitration bearing in mind the totality of what was presented to the tribunal by way of evidence, submissions, pleadings in order to ascertain the points that were “live”: at [243] and [245]. background 1 cfj and cfk (collectively, “the seller”) and cfl and cfm (collectively, “the purchaser”) are two corporations in the oil and gas industry. on 23 july 2012, the purchaser acquired a 49% stake in one of the seller’s subsidiaries (“the subsidiary”) by way of a share purchase agreement (“the spa”) to which the seller and the purchaser were parties. thereafter, the purchaser alleged that the seller had, inter alia, deceived it into investing in the subsidiary by making several representations.2 the purchaser commenced arbitration proceedings (“the arbitration”) against the seller. the following claims were made:(a) a claim for breach of contractual warranties (“the warranty claim”);(b) a claim in the tort of deceit in relation to misrepresentations concerning five aspects of the operations of the oil and gas fields which were owned and operated by the subsidiary namely, reserves, projects, production, decommissioning and maintenance (“the five topics”) (“the deceit claim”); and (c) a contractual claim for indemnification under a pre-effective date indemnity (“pedi”) clause in the spa concerning the reserves, decommissioning and maintenance (“the pedi claim”). 3 the arbitration was heard by a three-member tribunal. the tribunal delivered its decision on liability in three separate partial awards. the first partial award was delivered on 15 august 2017 and dismissed the warranty claim. the second partial award was delivered on 29 january 2020 and ruled in the purchaser’s favour on the deceit claim on reserves and the pedi claim on reserves. the third partial award was delivered on 20 april 2021 and ruled in favour of the purchaser on the deceit claim on production and against the purchaser on the deceit claim on projects, maintenance and decommissioning. the tribunal also ruled against the purchaser on the remaining pedi claims on decommissioning and maintenance. 4 after the release of the second partial award, the seller filed a notice of challenge to the singapore international arbitration centre (“siac”) on 14 february 2020. the seller sought the removal of the presiding arbitrator (“the president”) of the tribunal from the arbitration, alleging justifiable doubts over his impartiality. 5 however, before the siac could come to a decision on the challenge, the seller filed sic/os 7/2020 (“os 7”) on 28 april 2020 to set aside the second partial award. on 8 june 2020, the siac dismissed the seller’s challenge. the seller then filed sic/os 8/2020 (“os 8”) on 8 july 2020 to remove the president on the ground that there was a reasonable suspicion of bias. finally, the seller filed sic/os 9/2021 (“os 9”) on 19 july 2021 to set aside the third partial award.6  in os 7 and os 9, the seller sought to set aside the second partial award and third partial award respectively on the basis that (a) the tribunal had exceeded the scope of its jurisdiction and (b) breached the rules of natural justice. additionally, in os 7, the seller also sought to set aside the second partial award on the basis that the tribunal breached the parties’ agreed arbitral procedure and failed to act in accordance with parties’ agreement. in os 8, the seller sought the removal of the president on the ground of apparent bias. the seller also relied on this ground as further basis for setting aside both the second partial award and third partial award in os 7 and os 9, respectively. 7 four main issues arose for consideration from the seller’s submissions: (a) whether the president’s appointment to a panel of experts (“the panel”) constituted by the highest court in ruritania raised an appearance of bias (“issue 1”);(b) whether there was a breach of an agreed arbitral procedure as a result of the second partial award addressing only the deceit claim on reserves (“issue 2”); (c) whether the tribunal made any findings in the second and third partial awards that were in excess of jurisdiction (“issue 3”); and(d) whether the tribunal made any findings in the second and third partial awards that were in breach of natural justice (“issue 4”)?the sicc’s decisionissue 18 the sicc found that the president’s appointment did not raise an appearance of bias to the fair-minded and informed observer as the panel had no link to the purchaser. moreover, given the conclusion that there was no reasonable suspicion of bias,  the question of whether the president ought to have disclosed the appointment would not arise: at [55]–[73], [75].9 the third partial award unequivocally dispels any concerns over the president’s impartiality as the tribunal ruled against the purchaser on several claims thus, underscoring the tribunal’s even-handedness. as such, the sicc dismissed os 8 and declined to remove the president from the tribunal. for the same reasons, the sicc declined to set aside the second partial award and the third partial award on the ground of apparent bias: at [88]–[91], [92].issue 210 the sicc found that there was no agreed arbitral procedure as asserted by the seller. the seller was unable to point to any agreement that the tribunal was to deal with all the claims relating to the five topics in a single award. moreover, there was also no procedural order made by the tribunal that there would be a single award for all the claims relating to the five topics. finally, the seller suffered no prejudice as there was nothing to suggest that the tribunal did not evaluate the evidence and arguments on the five topics holistically before issuing the second partial award: at [105], [107]–[108].issues 3 and 411 the sicc dealt with these two issues together as they straddle common ground per the seller’s arguments: at [110].second partial award12 the seller took issue with four aspects of the second partial award: at [114](a) the tribunal’s decision on the proper interpretation of the us securities and exchange commission oil and gas reserve standards (“the sec standards”) which was crucial to the deceit claim on reserves which was based on the “reserves representation” (ie, that the seller represented to the purchaser that the subsidiary had significant levels of reserves) (“the sec standards complaint”);(b) the tribunal’s decision on the pedi claim on the reserves (“the pedi complaint”);(c) the tribunal’s findings on a document referred to as “the 2012 business plan” (“the business plan complaint”); and(d) the tribunal’s finding on the element of reliance in the deceit claim on the reserves representation (“the reliance complaint”). however, the sicc found that none of the tribunal’s decisions on the above aspects warranted the setting aside of the second partial award: at [115].13 on the sec standards complaint, the sicc observed that the seller’s complaint was better framed as one on breach of natural justice by the tribunal as the substance of the seller’s assertion was that the tribunal arrived at an interpretation of the sec standards that was not advanced by either party. however, a tribunal is not bound to adopt an “either/or” approach and may choose to embrace a “middle path” and it was clear on the evidence that the tribunal had given notice to the seller that it would adopt the interpretation that it eventually did, having questioned the seller’s expert witnesses on this point during cross-examination. the sicc thus concluded that there was no breach of natural justice: at [116]–[136]. 14 on the pedi complaint, the sicc again observed that the seller’s arguments were premised on a breach of natural justice as the allegation was that the tribunal arrived at its decision without having before it expert evidence on the relationship between the sec standards, and the uk generally accepted accounting principles and the uk statement of recommended practice (collectively “the sorp”). however, the issue that was before the tribunal was one of causation namely, whether the pedi conduct caused a loss for the purpose of the pedi clause. it was therefore apparent that the sorp and its similarities to the sec standards were not important to the tribunal’s analysis and conclusion. further, the tribunal recognised that the issue of the similarities, if any, between the sorp and the sec standards should be explored in assessment of the damages to follow (“the quantum phase”) if liability was established, as the arbitration was bifurcated into the liability phase and the quantum phase. as such, there was no breach of natural justice and no prejudice suffered by the seller: at [137]–[165]. 15 on the business plan complaint, it was once again clear that the seller’s arguments were more accurately framed as a complaint that the tribunal’s finding that the 2012 business plan was “contaminated” by “project alpha” (ie, a sales case made to the purchaser) was made in breach of natural justice. the sicc rejected the seller’s argument. it found that the tribunal’s finding was consistent with the purchaser’s case and the seller’s defence to it, and that a reasonable litigant could have foreseen the possibility of the tribunal examining and reaching a conclusion on the integrity of the 2012 business plan. in any event, the sicc found that there was no prejudice as the tribunal’s finding did not impact or influence the conclusion in the second partial award in any meaningful way: at [166]–[185]. 16 on the reliance complaint, the sicc concluded that the majority of the seller’s complaints were thinly veiled attacks on the merits of the second partial award. its contentions that the tribunal did not consider important points lacked merit as the tribunal either did specifically address those points, or reasoned that they were immaterial and did not require extensive consideration: at [186]–[217].third partial award17 the seller took issue with five aspects of the third partial award: at [220](a) first, the tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction and breached natural justice by allowing the the deceit claim on the production representation (the “production deceit claim”) on the basis of a radically reformulated representation that the seller never had an opportunity to test, or answer in evidence and submissions (the “representation complaint”).(b) second, the tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction and breached natural justice because the effect of the third partial award was that the purchaser would be allowed to recover damages as if it had made a claim in respect of the net present value (“npv”) of the subsidiary’s entire business when this was not an issue that was submitted to arbitration (the “npv complaint”).(c) third, the tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction and breached natural justice because it purported to pre-determine how damages for the production deceit claim would be assessed in the quantum phase, notwithstanding that the parties had agreed that all issues concerning quantum would be deferred to the quantum phase as a result of the bifurcation of the arbitration (the “quantum complaint”).(d) fourth, the tribunal exceeded its jurisdiction and breached natural justice in making certain findings of falsity in relation to the production representation on issues such as the rig schedule, the maturity of the infill wells and the operating efficiency (“oe”) optimisations notwithstanding, inter alia, that the purchaser had not pleaded a case in relation to these (the “falsity complaint”).(e) fifth, the tribunal breached natural justice when it failed to consider and/or disregarded the seller’s arguments relating to whether the seller had reasonable grounds to believe that the production and pe forecasts figures were achievable (the “honesty complaint”).18 the sicc dismissed the falsity complaint and honesty complaint as it found that they were thinly disguised attacks on the merits of the third partial award: at [221]–[227].19 the sicc dismissed the representation complaint as it found that the scope of the parties’ submission to arbitration showed that the purchaser’s claim was not framed as narrowly as the seller suggested. the scope of the tribunal’s jurisdiction was not necessarily limited by the “pleadings”, as any reference to “pleadings” was no more than a convenient analogy adopted by common-law lawyers. a practical view must be taken regarding the substance of the dispute being referred to arbitration: at [243] and [245]. 20 the third partial award therefore did not involve matters outside the scope of submission to arbitration such that it constituted a “new difference” that was irrelevant to the issues requiring determination by the tribunal: at [285]–[287]. 21 the sicc dismissed the npv complaint as the tribunal’s observation on the npv was a recognition that the capital expenditure (“capex”) and operating expenditure (“opex”) figures had a direct influence on the npv of the subsidiary. the tribunal did not say that the purchaser had succeeded on a deceit claim based on the entire npv of the subsidiary. it merely commented on the relationship between the production representation, capex and opex, and their influence on the computation of the npv: at [288]–[300].22 the sicc dismissed the quantum complaint as it found that the challenge was premature. the tribunal had yet to come to a definitive conclusion on the appropriate quantum of damages so there could be no question of breach of natural justice. in any event, there was no prejudice caused to the seller as it was still open to it to ventilate its points on damages in the quantum phase: at [302]–[308].23 for these reasons, os 7, os 8 and os 9 were dismissed in their entirety: at [309].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.