supreme court of

singapore

17 august 2017 

media summary

lee wei ling and

another v attorney-general
civil appeal no 149 of 2016 

decision of the court of appeal (delivered by

sundaresh menon cj)
1                   

this was an appeal by the

executors of the estate of singapore’s founding prime minister, mr lee kuan yew

(“mr lee”), against the decision of the high court judge to dismiss their

application for certain declarations of rights in tape recordings and

transcripts of interviews conducted with mr lee in the 1980s (collectively “the

transcripts”). this appeal fundamentally turned on the proper construction of

an interview agreement signed by mr lee and two government officials which

governed the rights in and the use and administration of the transcripts. 
background to the appeal 
2                   

in the early 1980s, the

government embarked on an oral history project to document significant

historical, political and social events in singapore. this project involved

interviews with key political appointment-holders, including mr lee. in 1983,

mr lee signed an agreement setting out the terms and conditions governing the

rights in and the use and administration of the transcripts with the cabinet

secretary and the director of the archives and oral history department, ministry

of culture. the interview agreement was drafted by the incumbent

attorney-general at that time, mr tan boon teik (“attorney-general tan”). all

three signatories to the interview agreement, as well as attorney-general tan,

have passed away.   
3                   

prior to mr lee’s death, a copy

of the transcripts was kept at his residence as he was working on his memoirs.

after mr lee passed away, a family member handed the copy of the transcripts to

the current cabinet secretary. when the executors of his estate, ms lee wei

ling and mr lee hsien yang, discovered this, they requested permission to

peruse the transcripts. mr lee hsien yang was allowed to do so at the premises

of the ministry of home affairs, on the condition that he undertook to safeguard

official information. 
4                   

thereafter, solicitors for the executors

wrote to the attorney-general’s chambers (“agc”) (a) requesting a copy of the

transcripts; (b) seeking confirmation as to whether mr lee had, during his

lifetime, permitted any person to access, to be given a copy, or to use the

transcripts and (c) seeking confirmation that going forward, such access would

only be granted with the permission of mr lee’s estate. the agc declined to

provide a copy of the transcripts to the executors on the ground that mr lee

did not contemplate copies being made unless he had personally sanctioned this,

and that in any event, the information therein was protected by the official

secrets act (cap 213, 2012 rev ed) (“the osa”). further, the right to grant

access to the transcripts was a right personal to mr lee and did not pass on to

the estate. it also declined to provide confirmation as to whether mr lee had

provided such permissions to persons during his lifetime. 
5                   

on 2 september 2015, the

executors filed an originating summons in the high court seeking the following

declarations: 
(a)               

all rights accorded to mr lee

under the interview agreement are vested in mr lee’s estate; 
(b)              

mr lee’s estate is entitled to

use and have copies of the transcripts;
(c)               

there shall be no access to,

supply of copies of, or use of the transcripts by anyone until five years after

mr lee’s death, without the express written permission of mr lee’s estate; and
(d)              

the cabinet secretary is under

a duty to inform mr lee’s estate of any request made after the death of mr lee

for access to, supply of copies of, or use of the transcripts, and of the grant

of any such request without the express written permission of mr lee’s estate.
6                   

the high court judge refused to

grant the declarations sought by the executors, holding that the osa applied to

the transcripts. he also held that although mr lee’s estate inherited the

copyright to the transcripts for five years after his death, this was for the

limited purpose of ensuring that the government abided by the interview

agreement. 
judgment 
7                   

in the executors’ appeal

against the decision of the high court judge, the court of appeal dismissed the

appeal and declined to grant the declarations sought by the executors. 
reasons for the judgment
the context of the

interview agreement
8                   

the court of appeal emphasised

that the interview agreement must be construed with due regard to its critical

context in which it was drafted. these considerations include the following.

first, mr lee had a pre-eminent role as the founding and incumbent prime

minister of singapore at the time of the interviews, which meant he would have

been privy to a large amount of critical and confidential information ([28]). second, the interviews, being

part of an oral history project, were not creative endeavours but an attempt to

record the history of a young nation state. restrictions on such transcripts were

envisaged and in fact imposed by some interviewees, including mr lee ([29]). third, while some parts of the transcripts

pertained to mr lee’s personal matters, most of the transcripts canvassed

materials that were at least potentially of a politically sensitive nature ([30]). the material was likely to be

subject to the osa as they contained information that mr lee obtained by virtue

of his position as a person who held office under the government at that time ([33]). fourth, the correspondence between

mr lee and attorney-general tan regarding the drafting of the interview

agreement clearly evidenced mr lee’s specific concern to safeguard the

confidentiality of the politically sensitive transcripts; the interview

agreement was drafted with a view to addressing that concern ([35]–[40]).     
the contents of the

interview agreement
9                   

taking into account the text of

the interview agreement and the specific context outlined above, the effects of

the interview agreement were as follows. the ownership of the physical transcripts vested in the

government; this was unsurprising as they were produced as part of the

government’s oral history project and undertaken using public resources ([44]). however, the government’s

ownership of the physical transcripts was not unfettered; instead, it owed

certain duties and responsibilities to mr lee as set out in the interview

agreement, primarily to protect mr lee’s desire for confidentiality of the

transcripts ([45]). significantly,

mr lee owned the copyright in the transcripts

until the year 2000 or five years after his death, whichever was later (“the

critical time”) ([47]). consequently,

the ownership of the physical transcripts

and the ownership of the copyright in

the transcripts vested in different parties. as a result, neither the

government nor mr lee, acting alone, would be able to have complete control

over the transcripts: if mr lee, as the copyright owner, wished to exercise his

rights in the transcripts (such as to reproduce, publish, communicate or adapt

them), he needed to have access to the physical documents. this would require

the consent of the government. as noted below at para 12, mr lee did secure

such a right for his own use of the materials during his lifetime. similarly,

although the government owned the physical transcripts, it would not be

entitled to exercise any of the rights of a copyright owner (such as making a

copy of the transcripts) without mr lee’s consent. otherwise, it would be in

breach of copyright. this system of dual controls furthered the objective of

safeguarding the confidentiality of the transcripts ([49]).
10               

the interview agreement further

stipulated that until the critical time, the transcripts were to remain in the

custody of the cabinet secretary. this again directly addressed mr lee’s

concerns of safeguarding the politically sensitive information in the

transcripts ([51]). further, there was

to be no access to, supply of copies

of or use of the transcripts except with mr lee’s prior written permission and

subject to any conditions he might impose. this reserved flexibility for

further and more nuanced control on mr lee’s part and dovetailed with the desire

to protect the security and confidentiality of the information in the

transcripts ([52]). however, even if

mr lee had given such permission to third parties, the government was not bound

to allow such access if it did not consider this appropriate in the

circumstances.
11               

after the critical time, the

government will own both the physical

transcripts as well as the copyright in them. it can also make the transcripts

available to persons, but such access is only allowed for the purposes of such research

as the government may approve. this means that the government retains the

right, even after the critical time, to withhold access to the transcripts ([55]).
12               

the interview agreement further

provides that mr lee’s own right to

use and access the transcripts, including to publish them, was not affected

(subject, of course, to the strictures of the osa). this would overcome the

conundrum caused by the separation of ownerships of the physical transcripts

and the copyright in them, as explained above ([57]). in the event that mr lee chose to publish the transcripts, the

copyright would remain vested in him even after the critical time. the

government would also, immediately upon such publication, acquire the right to

make the transcripts available for research. but as it turned out, the

transcripts were never published ([58]).



whether mr lee’s rights

under the interview agreement passed to his estate
13               

the entire bundle of mr lee’s copyright

passed on to his estate. this included both the positive rights (to do and to

authorise others to do certain exclusive acts, such as to reproduce and publish)

as well as the negative rights (to prevent others from doing those very acts)

of a copyright. however, because the ownership of the physical transcripts and the ownership of the copyright in them vested in different parties, the estate could not

practically exercise any of the positive rights of its copyright without the

consent of the government, who owned the physical transcripts. although mr lee

had carved out certain rights for himself

in the interview agreement to ensure that he

could use and access those transcripts, the text of the interview agreement

made it clear that these were personal in nature and did not pass on to the

estate. in arriving at this conclusion, the court of appeal noted that mr lee

did not even have a known will at the time of the interview agreement and had

also not yet appointed any executors ([63]).

nonetheless, the estate would be able to exercise its negative rights to bring

infringement actions against third parties for any breaches of copyright ([64]). 
14               

mr lee’s right to grant

permission to persons for access to, supply of copies of and use of the transcripts

was personal to him and did not pass on to his estate. again, this was because

the language of the interview agreement clearly showed that only mr lee himself was authorised to grant

such permissions. however, if the government manifested an intention to allow the

copying or use of the transcripts without mr lee’s permission, the estate was

in a position, by virtue of the negative rights under its copyright, to bring

an action to restrain the government from being in breach of copyright ([65]).
15               

mr lee’s personal right to use

the transcripts also did not pass on to his estate. if it did, the information

in the transcripts would likely have to be communicated to the executors, but

this would potentially be an offence under the osa. it would equally be an

offence for the executors to retain such information ([66]). 
16               

thus, although mr lee had

secured for himself certain rights under the interview agreement while imposing

some restrictions on the government’s ownership rights, these were personal

rights of his and not transmissible even to his estate. these do not, however,

affect the right of his estate to bring copyright infringement actions in the exercise

of its negative rights under the copyright ([69]).
conclusion
17               

for these reasons, the court of

appeal declined to grant any of the declarations sought by the executors. as

explained above, it was not the case that all rights vested in mr lee under the

interview agreement vested in his estate. the estate was not entitled to use

and/or have copies of the transcripts. the right to grant permission for access

to, supply of copies and use of the transcripts was a personal right of mr lee

and his estate did not inherit this right. without such personal permission

from mr lee, even the government could not allow such access until after the

critical time. there was also no obligation on the part of the cabinet

secretary to make the estate aware of any requests for copies of the

transcripts after mr lee’s death ([70]).


this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the

court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the

court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding

paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment. 
**********