supreme court of singapore
9 may

2017 

media

summary
tuc v tud 
district

court appeal no 158 of 2016 

 

 
background to the appeal 
1                   

this appeal arose from an

application by the appellant, the father, under s 8 of the international

child abduction act (cap 143c) (“the icaa”) for an order that his two

children be returned from singapore to san francisco, california, usa. the

respondent in this appeal was the children’s mother, with whom the children

presently reside. 
2                   

the father, the mother, and

their two children are us citizens. the father and the mother were married in

india in 2003 and registered their marriage in california in 2004. their

marriage was a strained one even before their two children were born in 2011

and 2014 respectively. 
3                   

in july 2015, the mother started

exploring career opportunities in singapore, which is where her parents and

extended family live. in late 2015, the father, the mother, and the children came

to singapore for a holiday (they arrived on different dates in october and

november). the plan at that time was to return to san francisco, california on

9 january 2016. however, the father had a disagreement with the mother’s

parents and returned to san francisco alone on 6 december 2015. 
4                   

while on vacation in singapore,

the mother pursued and secured a one-year consultancy contract with a private

equity firm which was the main investor in a financial technology start-up in

the region. the arrangement was for her to be employed by a company of which

her uncle was a director; that company would in turn contract with the private

equity firm for her to provide it with consultancy services. between 12 and 25 december

2015, the father and the mother exchanged a number of emails in which the

possibility of a long-term move to singapore was discussed. 
5                   

after the private equity firm

sent the mother the consultancy contract on 7 january 2016, the father and

the mother made plans to relocate to singapore. the mother went back to

california to serve out her two-week notice period with her us employer and

returned to singapore on 2 february 2016. the father obtained permission

from his us company to work remotely and came to singapore on 20 february

2016. the mother’s consultancy contract commenced on 15 february 2016, but

the private equity firm terminated it on 14 april 2016. the mother

nonetheless continued to work in singapore for her uncle’s company.
6                   

there was no easing of the

marital tensions between the father and the mother during their stay in

singapore. on 2 june 2016, the mother told the father that they should

file for divorce, and on 8 july 2016, she filed for divorce in california.

in the meantime, the father sought legal advice on how to ensure the return of

the children to the usa. he returned to the usa on 3 july 2016, and on 20 july

2016, he filed an application in the family justice courts for the return of

the children.
the legal issues 
7                   

according to s 8 of the

icaa, a person who claims that a child has been wrongfully retained in

singapore in breach of that person’s rights of custody under the law of a contracting

state to the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction

(“the hague convention”) may apply for an order that the child be returned. the

usa, like singapore, is a contracting state to the hague convention. the

provisions of the hague convention, as set out in the schedule to the icaa,

have the force of law in singapore.
8                   

according to article 3 of

the hague convention, the retention of a child is wrongful if it is in breach

of the rights of custody attributed to a person under the law of the country in

which the child was habitually resident immediately before the retention. it

was not disputed that the father had rights of custody under us law and that

the retention of the children in singapore would be in breach of those rights,

and therefore wrongful, if they were indeed habitually resident in the usa. on

the other hand, if the children were habitually resident in singapore, their

retention here would not be in breach of any rights of custody under singapore

law. 
9                   

the father’s application was brought

on the basis that the children had been wrongfully retained in singapore by the

mother in breach of his rights of custody under us law. the mother opposed the

application on two grounds. first, she argued that her retention of the

children in singapore was not wrongful because the children were no longer

habitually resident in the usa at the date of their retention here in the face

of the father’s request for them to be returned to the usa; instead, they were

habitually resident in singapore. second, she relied on an exception in article 13

of the hague convention, which provides that even if a child has been

wrongfully retained, a court is not bound to order the return of the child if,

among other things, the parent making the application had consented to the

child’s retention. the father denied that he had consented to the children’s

retention in singapore. he also argued in the alternative that the mother had deceived

him into consenting. 
10               

in the court below, the

district judge found that the father had consented to the family relocating to

singapore for a period of two years, and that the father had failed to prove

that he had been deceived into consenting. the district judge therefore

dismissed the father’s application. the father then filed the present appeal

against the district judge’s decision. 
11               

the two issues on appeal were whether

the habitual residence of the children immediately before their retention in

singapore was the usa or singapore; and second, if the answer was that their

habitual residence remained the usa, whether the father consented to their

retention in singapore. 
the court’s decision
12               

on the first issue, the court found

that the habitual residence of the children remained the usa. 
13               

the court took the date of

wrongful retention to be 2 june 2016, when the mother told the father that

she would be filing for divorce. the court noted that where the parents agreed

that a child could be brought to another country for an agreed period of time, the

child would, in the usual case, be wrongfully retained if he or she were not

returned at the end of the period. however, there might also be wrongful

retention even before the expiry of the period if the parent who brought the

child away intimated to the other parent that the child would not be returned

at the end of that period. this could be deduced from the conduct of the

parties if it was clear that the conduct was no longer consistent with the

terms of the agreement which formed the basis of the child’s consensual removal

in the first place. 
14               

in the court’s view, that was

the position in this case. in agreeing to relocate to singapore, the father’s

intention had been to salvage the marriage and keep his family together. he

envisioned a stay of at least six months. the family’s stay commenced in

february 2016, and the earliest time the agreed period of stay would have

expired would have been in august 2016. nonetheless, even before that, the

mother indicated her intention to file for divorce on 2 june 2016. her

conduct showed that she wanted the children to continue living in singapore and

did not contemplate their returning to the usa. this meant that the basis on

which the father had agreed to the children’s consensual removal to singapore –

to salvage the marriage and to keep the family together – no longer existed. hence,

the wrongful retention of the children in singapore occurred on 2 june

2016. the question then was whether the habitual residence of the children

immediately before that date was the usa or singapore. 
15               

the court found that the

habitual residence of the children was the usa. the test for habitual residence

was a question of fact requiring a court to consider a range of factors which

clustered around two main concerns: the degree to which the child was settled

or integrated into a country, and the intention of the parents as to whether

the child was to reside in that country. in the case of very young children, it

would be the intentions of their parents in relocating them and the objective

factors of the case which would be significant in determining whether their

habitual residence had changed. 
16               

with regard to the parents’

intentions in this case, the court found that there was no shared intention on

the part of the father and the mother to relocate to singapore. they each viewed

the move to singapore differently. the only reason the father agreed to move

was to attempt to rehabilitate the marriage and to be with the children while

doing so. he saw the move as a temporary arrangement and contemplated that the

family would return to the usa eventually. the mother moved here to pursue her

career opportunities and to be close to her family. she was seemingly

determined to remain in singapore for the foreseeable future. 
17               

furthermore, the objective

circumstances did not support a finding that the habitual residence of the

children had changed. the court noted in particular that the length of the

children’s stay here was not significant. the effective period of the

children’s relocation, for the purposes of assessing habitual residence, was

four months – from february 2016, when what was originally envisaged to be a

family holiday became a relocation, to 2 june 2016. the court was referred

to cases where the habitual residence of children was found to have changed in

periods of similar duration, but held that those cases could be distinguished

because there, there was a joint intention on the part of the parents to

relocate. in this case, the absence of such a joint intention to relocate,

coupled with the brief duration of the children’s stay in singapore, led the

court to conclude that the habitual residence of the children remained the usa immediately

before 2 june 2016, the date of their wrongful retention. 
18               

on the second issue, the court

found that the father did not consent to the retention of the children in

singapore after 2 june 2016. the court noted that in finding that the

father had consented to the children’s relocation to singapore, the district

judge had relied on a number of statements by the father to the effect that the

family was moving to singapore for two years, along with conduct consistent

with those statements. however, in the court’s view, what was important was not

the length of the move which the father consented to, but why he did so. since

the father agreed to the move as part of an attempted reconciliation with the

mother and to keep his family together, the crucial question was whether he

consented to the children remaining in singapore even if he and the mother were

to be divorced. the court found that he did not. the father’s consent to

relocate here was not unconditional, and the basis of his consent no longer existed

on 2 june 2016 once the mother indicated her wish to file for divorce. in

view of this finding, the court considered it unnecessary to determine whether the

father had been deceived into consenting. 
19               

in the circumstances, the court

allowed the appeal and ordered that the children be returned to san francisco,

california, usa within 30 days of the date of the judgment.
 
this summary is provided to assist in the

understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute

for the reasons of the court.