supreme court singapore
 
9

may 2017
media

summary
ramachandran jayakumar and another v woo hon wai and

others 
and another matter
civil

appeal no 11 of 2017 and summons no 39 of 2017 
decision

of the court of appeal (delivered by sundaresh menon cj)
 
background

to the appeal
1          this was an appeal

against the high court’s decision to approve the application for the collective

sale of a development known as shunfu ville (“the property”). the appellants were

the subsidiary proprietors of the property who opposed the collective sale. the

first, second and third respondents were members of the collective sale

committee (“csc”) in conduct of the transaction. the central question was

whether the collective sale of the property should be allowed to proceed. the two

issues which determined this question were: (a) whether the transaction was in

good faith taking into account the sale price of the property; and (b) whether

the csc acted ultra vires in making

the collective sale application.  
facts
2          the property is a

32-year-old development. since 2014, it has experienced a deficit in its

operating budget due to various maintenance issues. these remain a live concern

today as the buildings continue to deteriorate with age.
3          in 2013, the csc was

formed to explore the possibility of a collective sale of the property. on 12

july 2014, a collective sale agreement (“the csa”) was presented to the

subsidiary proprietors of the property and the first signature to the csa was

obtained on the same day. based on the requirements prescribed under the land

titles (strata) act (cap 158, 2009 rev ed) (“ltsa”), the csc had a maximum

period of approximately 24 months to complete the entire collective sale

process, during which a number of milestones had to be met. first, the csc had

to obtain the consent of subsidiary proprietors who together held 80% of the

share values as well as of the total area of all the lots within 12 months from

the date the first signature to the csa was acquired, and execute the csa among

them by that time. in this case, the statutory threshold of consents had to be

met by 11 july 2015. second, the collective sale must be launched by way of

public tender, although a sale may be concluded by private treaty within ten

weeks from the close of the public tender. third, the csc had to bring the

collective sale application to the board for approval within 12 months from the

date the csa had been executed by the requisite majority of subsidiary

proprietors.
4          the statutory

threshold of consents required from the subsidiary proprietors was crossed on

11 july 2015 itself. the reserve price at which the subsidiary proprietors

consented to the property being sold was $688m. with this, the csc proceeded to

launch a public tender. although no formal bids were received, a number of

developers submitted expressions of interest. one of these was the qingjian

group of companies (“qingjian”) which, subsequent to negotiations with the csc,

agreed to offer $638m for the property. none of the other developers were

prepared to match that price.   
5          in any event, the

csc had already begun efforts to secure a fresh mandate from the subsidiary

proprietors at a revised reserve price of $638m, and supplementary agreements

were prepared in accordance with the terms of the csa in order to effect this.

while efforts to obtain the requisite consents were ongoing, the csc proceeded

to launch a second public tender but this too was at the initial reserve price

of $688m. this again failed to attract any formal bids. 
6          within the ten weeks

from the close of the second public tender and after the subsidiary

proprietors’ consents required to effect the sale at $638m were finally

obtained, the csc entered into a private contract with qingjian to sell the

property at that price. this was followed by the csc’s application to the strata

titles board (“the board”) for a collective sale order on 8 july 2016, with

only a few days to spare before the statutorily imposed deadline. in other

words, it appeared that the csc had met the timelines prescribed under the ltsa

at each stage, but only just. 
7          following the csc’s

application to the board, a number of dissenting subsidiary proprietors proceeded

to lodge objections to the collective sale. the csc eventually succeeded in

having the collective sale application approved by the high court, and the

subsidiary proprietors appealed against the decision made. 
judgment
8          the court of appeal

dismissed the appeal. the appellants’ allegation that the transaction was not

in good faith was not established on the facts, and the claim that the csc had

acted ultra vires in making the

collective sale application was not made out. 
reasons for the judgment
9          in determining

whether the transaction was in good faith, the court emphasised that the entire

circumstances of the transaction, taking into account the factors enunciated in

the case of ng eng ghee and others v

mamata kapildev dave and others (horizon partners pte ltd, intervener) and

another appeal [2009] 3 slr(r) 109, must be appraised in the round. absent

any reason for thinking that members of a collective sale committee were

actuated by any improper motives or any conflict of interest, and absent clear

evidence that the transaction was tainted by unfairness towards some subsidiary

proprietors, in particular the dissenting subsidiary proprietors, or by some

deficit in the transaction, the transaction would less likely be refused

approval. in addition, the question of whether the “best price” had been

obtained was more appropriately framed in terms of whether the price obtained was

appropriate in the circumstances. in

this connection, whether the price was appropriate always entailed a

fact-sensitive inquiry. finally, a party seeking to make the argument that the

price obtained was not an appropriate one for the purpose of letting the sale

proceed should particularise the steps that should have been but were not taken

and explain how the taking of those steps would have realised a better price. 

10        given the particular

circumstances of this case, although the facts indicated that the csc was in

somewhat of a rush, there was nothing to suggest an absence of good faith or

impropriety in the transaction. the appellants had also not led any evidence to

show that the price at which the csc sought to conclude the sale with qingjian

was inappropriate in the prevailing market conditions or, for that matter, in

the reasonably foreseeable future. there did not appear to be any other

tangible interest in the property from any other developers and there was no

evidence to suggest that the price of $638m reflected an undervalue. failing to

commit to qingjian not only did not assure that a better offer would come

along, but could also have resulted in the loss of qingjian’s offer.
11        as for whether the

respondents had acted ultra vires in

making the collective sale application, the appellants argued that the wording

of s 84a(1) read with paras 1 and 2 of the first schedule to the ltsa

suggested that the group of subsidiary proprietors who made the application for

collective sale must come from the very same group of subsidiary proprietors

who had signed the csa by 11 july 2015. the court acknowledged that this was,

at least in general, how the collective sale process would logically proceed.

an interpretation to the contrary would also give rise to a difficulty where

one or more subsidiary proprietors, whose consent was essential to meet the

required 80% thresholds under the ltsa agreed to enter into a collective sale

at a certain price only to find that a year later, a differently constituted

group of subsidiary proprietors then applied for approval of a collective sale

at a different price and for that matter on terms which were different in other

respects as well. 

12        all this would have

led to the disapproval of the collective sale in this case but for the fact

that the csa itself contained a contractual provision that permitted each of

these developments to take place. where this very eventuality was contractually

provided for, there was no basis for holding that such an arrangement would

violate, offend or be otherwise contrary to the scheme envisaged by the

provisions of the ltsa. in all other respects, the pre-conditions for an

application to the board had been met and the court was therefore satisfied

that the respondents had not acted ultra

vires in making the collective sale application under the ltsa. 
 

this summary is provided to

assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a

substitute for the reasons of the court.