supreme court of singapore19 december 2022case summarybcbc singapore pte ltd and another v pt bayan resources tbk and another [2022] sghc(i) 17--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by quentin loh jad, vivian ramsey ij and anselmo reyes ij):outcome: sicc awards costs of s$2,761,787.00 and disbursements of s$1,932,846.20 to defendants who, despite failing on issues of liability, succeeded on limited issues of causation of loss and quantum and prevailed overall in a drawn-out litigation. pertinent and significant points of the court’s judgment •  an “issue-based approach”, under which the parties to the litigation would each be entitled to the costs of the issues on which they respectively succeeded, was not appropriate in a case where there is a clear overall winner in the litigation. •  the court has a sufficiently broad discretion to depart from the starting point in o 110 r 46(1) of the rules of court (2014 rev ed) that a successful party was entitled to “reasonable costs”, and look beyond the overall outcome of the litigation to make an order as to costs that properly took into account the realities and circumstances of a case. •  having regard to the fact that the defendants, whilst the successful party overall, failed on the majority of the issues and only succeeded on limited issues of causation of loss and quantum, the court exercised its discretion under o 110 r 46(1) to reduce the costs to which the defendants would otherwise have been entitled. background1 this judgment dealt with the costs of a drawn-out litigation in sic/s 1/2015 (“sic 1”), arising from a joint venture between australian and indonesian companies to exploit a new technology to upgrade coal for commercial sale (“the bcb process”) that ended in a series of disputes. 2 sic 1 was heard by the singapore international commercial court (“the sicc”) in three tranches (each referred to as “tranche 1”, “tranche 2” and “tranche 3”). the sicc ruled largely in the plaintiffs’ favour on issues of liability, which occupied tranche 1 and tranche 2 of the proceedings, and also dismissed the defendants’ counterclaim against the plaintiffs in tranche 1. in tranche 3, the sicc ultimately ruled in the defendants’ favour on the issues of causation of loss and quantum. the overall result was that the plaintiffs’ claims failed. the parties’ submissions on costs 3 following the sicc’s decision in tranche 3, the parties agreed that costs of sic 1 be dealt with by way of two rounds of written submissions without a further hearing. 4 the plaintiffs submitted that an “issue-based approach” be adopted in the assessment of costs, so that the parties would each be entitled to the costs of the issues on which they respectively succeeded, with the net result that no order as to costs be made. the defendants argued that an issue-based approach should not be adopted, and sought costs for the period before the case was transferred to the sicc (“pre-transfer costs”) and for the period after the transfer (“post-transfer costs”), as well as disbursements.the issues before the court 5 the following issues arose for the sicc’s determination: at [25]. (a) what approach should be adopted in the award of costs in this case? (b) applying that approach, what is the quantum of costs (if any) that the defendants should recover? (c) what is the quantum of disbursements that the defendants should recover? how should costs be awarded in this case 6 the sicc held that the defendants were the overall winner in this case, despite failing on significant aspects of their defence, because the ultimate result was that the plaintiffs failed in their claims for damages and obtained nothing by their litigation. therefore, an issue-based approach, as argued for by the plaintiffs, was not appropriate. adopting an issue-based approach where there is an overall winner as such could run counter to the reasonable expectation of litigants that they will recover costs from the losing party if they succeed overall, regardless of whether they prevailed only on some (but not all) grounds raised: at [29] to [31], [34] to [35] and [39]. 7 the sicc held that the court’s discretion under o 110 r 46(1) is sufficiently broad to allow it to look beyond the overall outcome of the litigation and make a costs order that properly takes into account the circumstances of the case. the sicc noted that, generally, parties in the sicc were likely to adopt a more liberal approach to raising different claims or issues in the litigation. even if those claims or issues on which the successful party failed have been reasonably pursued, it does not follow that the unsuccessful party should be required to compensate the successful party for any and all expenses that the latter chooses to incur. an all-or-nothing effect of awarding the successful party the entirety of his claimed costs would not be appropriate in every case: at [40] to [42]. 8 the sicc held that sic 1 was a case in which the court should exercise its discretion under o 110 r 46(1) to reduce the costs to which the defendants would otherwise have been entitled. that took into account the reality that the defendants, whilst the successful party overall, failed on the majority of issues and succeeded only on limited issues of causation of loss and quantum: at [43]. 9 in determining the extent to which the defendants’ costs should be reduced, the starting point was to consider those issues on which the successful party failed, to identify the measure of the winning party’s success in the litigation. in this regard, the sicc held that there were at least two relevant considerations: (a) the legal significance of those issues on which the successful party had failed, in terms of how crucial or central they had been vis-à-vis the case or defence of the unsuccessful party; and (b) the amount of resources that had been expended on those issues, relative to the entire expense of the litigation: at [44] and [45]. 10 the sicc found that in sic 1, the issues on which the plaintiffs succeeded were legally significant, and were issues that occupied a significant part of the proceedings and on which extensive resources were expended. that said, the defendants should still be awarded a significant proportion of their claimed costs to reflect their overall success in sic 1. the sicc held, balancing these considerations, including the fact that the defendants had failed on their counterclaim, that it would be appropriate to reduce the costs to which the defendants would otherwise have been entitled to recover by 40%: at [46] to [49].  the quantum of the defendants’ recoverable costs pre-transfer costs 11 in calculating pre-transfer costs, the sicc held that the higher costs ranges in the construction, intellectual property, admiralty and medical negligence category in part iii/a/ii appendix g of the supreme court practice directions 2013 (“appendix g”) (up to s$18,000 for pleadings and up to s$35,000 for discovery) were more appropriate as they better reflected the level of complexity in sic 1. the highest tariff in each of the costs ranges should be used, thereby yielding a figure of s$18,000 for pleadings-related work and s$35,000 for discovery-related work: at [53] to [55].12 as for the uplift to be applied, the sicc held that, for pleadings-related work, a slight uplift of s$2,000 was justified, and an overall figure of s$20,000 sufficiently reflected the complexity of the pleadings-related work undertaken during the pre-transfer period. as for the discovery-related work that had been undertaken in the pre-transfer period, its complexity far exceeded that which was likely to be undertaken in ordinary construction, intellectual property, admiralty or medical negligence suits in the high court. a significant uplift of 2x should therefore be applied, producing an overall figure of s$70,000 for discovery-related work. the sum total of the pre-transfer costs is therefore s$90,000: [57] to [60]. post-transfer costs 13 as for post-transfer costs, the sicc noted that the defendants did not substantiate their claimed costs with any costs schedule. all the defendants did was to set out the costs incurred by its lawyers at each tranche of the proceeding, which in turn was calculated by reference to the hourly rate of each lawyer multiplied by the total number of hours attributable to each lawyer for that tranche. the sicc held that the level of particularisation provided by the defendants fell short of the required standard and was insufficient: at [64]. 14 faced with the insufficient particulars provided by the defendants, the sicc was initially minded to direct the defendants to provide a more detailed costs schedule. however, it ultimately decided against doing so. the sicc noted that, although the plaintiffs did argue that the insufficient level of particularisation prevented them from disputing the hours claimed by the defendants and the reasonableness of their claimed costs, the plaintiffs’ challenge was a general one and not mounted by reference to the level of costs which they themselves had incurred. in those circumstances, the sicc was doubtful that a further breakdown from the defendants would assist and instead could end up necessitating further rounds of submissions and would ramp up costs further: at [66]. 15 in the circumstances, the sicc used the post-transfer costs claimed by the defendants as a starting point, applied a 10% discount for lack of particularisation, and then applied a further 40% discount on account of the measure of the defendants’ success in sic 1, producing a figure of s$2,671,787.00 for post-transfer costs: at [67] and [69] to [70]. the quantum of the defendants’ recoverable disbursements 16 the sicc also awarded disbursements of s$1,932,846.20 to the defendants, having applied the same 40% discount: at [71] to [72]. conclusion17 in sum, the sicc awarded a total sum of s$4,694,633.20 to the defendants for the costs and disbursements of sic 1: at [73] to [74]. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court.