supreme court of singapore2 december 2022case summaryok tedi fly river development foundation ltd and others v png sustainable development program ltd [2022] sgca 76  civil appeal no 4 of 2022, summons no 6 of 2022 and ad/summons no 37 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: coa dismisses appeal against decision that company did not owe fiduciary duties to members of the affected communities. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  where parties have gone to considerable lengths to provide for and delineate their respective rights and obligations by contract, it seems implausible that the parties will have also undertaken similar obligations in favour of others with whom there are no binding contractual arrangements (at [12]).background to the appeal1 this was the latest chapter of a long-running dispute over the liabilities and proper corporate governance of the respondent, png sustainable development program ltd, a company limited by guarantee. the respondent was incorporated in singapore in october 2001 to be the special purpose vehicle through which an australian multinational mining company now known as bhp group limited was to exit its investment in a company in papua new guinea (“png”), known as ok tedi mining limited (“otml”). otml owned and operated a mine in the western province of png (“the mine”). around the time that proceedings were commenced in the general division of the high court by way of suit no 628 of 2020 (“suit 628”), the value of the respondent’s assets was about us$1.48bn. 2 in suit 628, it was argued that in the light of all the circumstances giving rise to the incorporation of the respondent and the statement of its objects, it could be inferred that the respondent had voluntarily undertaken to act in the interest of members of the affected communities, and that by so undertaking, the respondent became a fiduciary and was subject to fiduciary duties that were owed to members of the affected communities. the affected communities are certain communities in the western province of png which have been adversely affected by the environmental damage caused by the operations of the mine. the appellants are representative members of the affected communities. the appellants contended that the respondent had acted in contravention of the fiduciary duties that it allegedly owed to the affected communities. 3 the judge was not persuaded and struck out the entirety of the appellants’ claim against the respondent. the judge found that the respondent gave no undertaking whatsoever – voluntary or otherwise, express or implied, in respect of any of its assets – to the members of the affected communities at any time. it followed that there could be no fiduciary duties owed by the respondent to the affected communities. 4 civil appeal no 4 of 2022 was the appellants’ appeal against the judge’s decision. in ad/summons no 37 of 2021 (“sum 37”) and summons no 6 of 2022 (“sum 6”), the appellants sought leave to amend their statement of claim and to adduce further evidence in support of their appeal. the appellants contended that they should be allowed to take their claims to trial.the decision of the court5 the court agreed with the judge that the only undertakings which the respondent gave in respect of its assets to anyone at any time were those set out in the suite of written contracts it entered into following its incorporation and it gave them only to the counterparties to those contracts. the members of the affected communities were not party to the contracts that the respondent had entered into (at [12]). the fact that the respondent had given various undertakings to the other parties to those contracts did not mean that it had given a similar undertaking to the appellants with whom the respondent was never in a contractual relationship. in fact, the converse was more likely to be true (at [11] and [13]). to suggest that those undertakings in the contracts somehow extended to the appellants would also have contradicted some of the terms of those very contracts that provided that the rights were not intended to be conferred upon non-parties (at [14]).6 the court affirmed the judge’s finding that the express contractual obligations which the respondent undertook and the express discretionary powers which the respondent acquired under the suite of written contracts it entered into made it unsustainable for the respondent to have undertaken any duty or obligation to members of the affected communities. the appellants’ principal case that the respondent owed fiduciary duties to members of the affected communities simply could not get off the ground (at [24]). the appellants’ application in sum 37 to adduce further evidence in the appeal would not have made a difference as the considerable difficulties in the appellants’ fiduciary claim had not been overcome (at [25]). the court affirmed the judge’s finding that the appellants’ fiduciary claim was plainly and obviously unsustainable (at [32]).7 as to the appellants’ attempt in sum 6 to advance new arguments based on the existence of a trust relationship, the court held that on appeal, the appellants should not be allowed to advance claims against the respondent that would put their claims on a wholly different footing from that on which the judge had considered them. in any event, the court held that the judge’s earlier reasons for striking out of the fiduciary duty claim would likewise have applied to defeat the new claims founded on an alleged breach of trust that the appellants advanced on appeal (at [2] and [33]–[34]). this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.