supreme court of singapore24 november 2023case summarylim siau hing @ lim kim hoe and another v compass consulting pte ltd and another appeal [2023] sgca 39court of appeal / civil appeal nos 23 and 24 of 2023-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------outcome: the ca allows the appeal in ca/ca 23/2023 (“ca 23”), reversing the gdhc’s decision to allow compass consulting pte ltd’s (“compass”) claim for bonus shares pursuant to an agreement. the ca dismisses the appeal in ca/ca 24/2023 (“ca 24”), affirming the gdhc’s decision that compass is not entitled to a cash fee arising out of the same agreement.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  it remains an open question whether evidence of subsequent conduct may be admitted for the purposes of contractual interpretation. the key issue in these appeals pertains to the existence of a particular term, and not the interpretation of a term. therefore, the court is not concerned with the parol evidence rule or the principles that govern the admissibility of extrinsic evidence in a case of contractual interpretation, and there is no restriction on the evidence which the court may consider: at [96]–[97]. background 1 mr lim siau hing @ lim kim hoe (“mr lim”) and mr lim vhe kai (“damien”) (collectively, “the lims”) were executive directors and controlling shareholders of knit textiles mfg sdn bhd (“ktm”). the lims had appointed compass to structure a reverse takeover (the “rto”) of lereno bio-chem ltd (“lereno”), in order to list ktm and its related companies on the catalist board of the singapore exchange securities trading ltd. compass’s directors are mr kelvin chin wui leong (“kelvin”) and his wife, ms chong lee ching (“ms chong”). 2 on 3 may 2017, compass entered into a corporate advisory agreement (the “1st loe”), under which it was appointed as “project manager” for the rto. 3 on or around 11 may 2017, the lims attended a “kick-off meeting” with kelvin and ms chong at ktm’s office in malaysia. shortly after, on 15 may 2017, compass entered into an addendum to the 1st loe (the “2nd loe”). the 2nd loe expressly provided that compass’s fees for its services were estimated to be $1.1m which could be “adjusted subject to mutual agreement should there be a change in the scope or finalised transaction structure”.4 from may to july 2017, kelvin and ms chong facilitated separate discussions with the lims and the then-managing director and ceo of lereno, mr ong puay koon (“mr ong”), on how the rto would be structured. 5 at a meeting on 17 july 2017, the lims, kelvin, ms chong and mr ong finalised the structure of the rto (the “17 july 2017 meeting”). they also agreed that upon successful completion of the rto, compass would be paid incentives in the form of $500,000 worth of bonus shares in lereno (the “bonus shares”) and a $480,000 cash fee (the “cash fee”) for its services in respect of the rto (the “agreement”). three documents were signed by the lims at the same meeting (the “17 july documents”): a. a document titled “project libra: sale of knit textile manufacturing sdn bhd and its related companies (ktm) to lereno bio-chem ltd (transaction)” addressed to mr ong and kelvin (“document 1”). document 1 stated that the lims “being the directors and shareholders of ktm, hereby agree to the sale of ktm to [lereno] provided our net share of equity in the listed issuer … is no less than 65% at completion of the transaction”. the structure of the rto was recorded in a scheme spreadsheet annexed to document 1 (the “scheme spreadsheet”).b. a document titled “project libra – corporate service agreements” addressed to mr ong and kelvin (“document 2”). document 2 stated that the lims, “being the directors and shareholders of ktm, hereby agree to provide both [mr ong] and [kelvin] and/or their nominated representatives a corporate advisory service agreement (agreements) for a period of 2 to 3 years from completion of transaction (the period). the total fees for the agreements for both mr ong and [kelvin] is no less than s$480,000 per person for the period”.c. a document titled “project libra: sale of knit textile manufacturing sdn bhd and its related companies (ktm) to lereno bio-chem ltd (transaction)” addressed to lereno’s board of directors (“document 3”). document 3 stated that the lims, “being the directors and shareholders of ktm, hereby agree to the sale of entire equity in ktm to [lereno] for a consideration of s$30 million”.6 the rto was completed on 18 february 2019, with the lims holding a 77.79% stake in lereno and their shares being worth a total of $26.4m. compass was paid $1.1m by the lims for its services, via the issuance of shares in lereno. however, compass was not paid the bonus shares and the cash fee, and compass commenced hc/s 433/2021 (“s 433”) claiming for these incentives. 7 in the court below, compass’s case was that it had communicated to the lims that it expected to receive a fee of $2.08m in relation to the rto, and the lims did not object to this. thus, under the terms of the agreement entered into at the 17 july 2017 meeting, compass would be paid the $1.1m as stated in the 2nd loe, and its balance fees in the form of: (a) the bonus shares; and (b) the cash fee over a period of two to three years upon completion of the rto. in this regard, compass argued that the agreement was made orally between the parties at the 17 july 2017 meeting, and documents 1 and 2 were then prepared to record the fact that the agreement was reached. compass also averred that document 3 was only prepared for the purpose of facilitating mr ong’s discussions with lereno’s board of directors and was not meant to be read together with documents 1 and 2. 8 the lims accepted that the agreement was partly written and partly oral. however, they contended that under the terms of the agreement, the bonus shares and the cash fee were only payable if: (a) the lims held more than 65% of the shares in the listed entity upon completion of the rto (the “65% condition”); and (b) the lims’ shares were worth at least $30m upon completion of the rto (the “$30m condition”) (collectively, the “conditions”). the agreement was reflected in documents 1, 2 and 3. given that the lims’ shares were only worth $26.4m upon completion of the rto, the $30m condition had not been satisfied and the bonus shares and the cash fee were therefore not payable.9 the high court judge (the “judge”) held, inter alia, that the agreement was wholly written and comprised only documents 1 and 2, to the exclusion of document 3. he also held that the $30m condition did not form part of the agreement. thus, given that compass had satisfied the 65% condition, the judge found that it was entitled to be paid the bonus shares. however, the judge found that compass was not entitled to the cash fee, as document 2, which referred to its payment, clearly contemplated in writing that compass was to enter into a separate corporate advisory service agreement to earn this sum, but no such agreement had been entered into.10 further, the judge ordered that the parties were to each bear their own costs and expenses of s 433, and that compass was entitled to pre-judgment interest from 18 february 2019, being the date on which its cause of action arose, to the date of payment.11 compass and the lims subsequently each filed an appeal against the judge’s decision. ca 23 is the lims’ appeal against the judge’s decision on the bonus shares and computation of pre-judgment interest, while ca 24 is compass’s appeal against the judge’s decision on the cash fee and costs of the action.decision of the court 12 the principal issue which divides the parties is whether the agreement was subject to both the 65% condition and the $30m condition, or only the former condition. in deciding this issue, it is first necessary to examine the nature of the agreement, which then impacts the determination of its terms, bearing in mind the text and context of the 17 july documents: at [42]–[43]. 13 the agreement was partly written and partly oral. the judge erred in failing to consider whether there was a set of oral terms in light of which the 17 july documents were meant to be construed, and if so, what these terms were. given that the 17 july documents do not set out the entire agreement pertaining to the bonus shares and the cash fee, regard must inevitably be had to the parties’ evidence of what was orally discussed and agreed at the 17 july 2017 meeting. it was also both parties’ positions in the proceedings below, and their final position in these appeals, that the agreement was partly written and partly oral: at [45]–[56].14 the $30m condition was a term of the agreement. compass has not satisfactorily accounted for why the lims would have agreed to payment of the bonus shares and cash fee, if not for the $30m condition. the judge below rejected compass’s case that the parties had agreed that its fees for the rto would be $2.08m, and that the bonus shares and cash fee were therefore part of compass’s completion fees. compass did not seriously challenge this finding on appeal. as for compass’s alternative explanation that the bonus shares and cash fee were promised in exchange for kelvin achieving the 65% condition, this is not supported by the evidence. in any event, it is not plausible that the lims would have agreed in july 2017 to pay compass additional incentives for achieving the 65% condition, as the 65% condition was already in play from as early as may 2017: at [68]–[75].15 it is much more plausible that as the lims contend, the parties agreed to payment of the bonus shares and cash fee because kelvin had promised that he could achieve the $30m condition. the lims’ account of events is corroborated by the evidence of mr ong. such an outcome is also more commercially sensible for the lims and would justify the increase of fees to compass: at [62]–[66] and [75].16 the 17 july documents were all prepared for the purpose of evidencing the agreement. the judge erred in finding that document 3 was a standalone document. kelvin’s account of events, which is that document 3 was prepared for the separate purpose of allowing mr ong to appear to lereno’s board to be negotiating the consideration for the rto downward from $30m, is difficult to believe and is uncorroborated by the other evidence. the judge took an untenable position when he accepted kelvin’s evidence, because he also accepted mr ong’s evidence, which instead corroborated the lims’ account that document 3 was meant to evidence the $30m condition. further, no particular significance should be attached to the fact that document 3 has different addressees from documents 1 and 2. none of the documents had been addressed to compass and importantly, they were all prepared by kelvin and signed at the same time during the 17 july 2017 meeting: at [82]–[86].17 the 17 july documents comport neatly with the lims’ case that both the 65% condition and the $30m condition were part of the agreement. the 65% condition is evidenced by document 1, while the $30m condition is evidenced by document 3. the fact that document 3 does not spell out the $30m condition in full is entirely consistent with the court’s finding that the agreement is partly written and partly oral. little can also be made of the fact that the $30m condition is reflected in a standalone document such as document 3, given that the 17 july documents were prepared solely by kelvin without the benefit of legal advice. finally, there is nothing in the point that the scheme spreadsheet annexed to document 1 purportedly provides for payment of the bonus shares and the cash fee even where the consideration for the rto was $25.3m. as compass conceded, that spreadsheet was prepared prior to the 17 july 2017 meeting, but the $30m condition was agreed to at the meeting itself: at [87]–[91].18 it remains an open question whether evidence of subsequent conduct may be admitted for the purposes of contractual interpretation. the key issue in these appeals pertains to the existence of a particular term (ie, the $30m condition), and not the interpretation of a term. the court is therefore not concerned with the parol evidence rule or the principles that would govern the admissibility of extrinsic evidence in a case of contractual interpretation, and there is no restriction on the evidence which the court may consider. in any case, the parties’ subsequent conduct does not assist compass’s case: at [96]–[100]. 19 it is unnecessary to deal with the lims’ alternative submission in ca 23 that the agreement is unenforceable for want of consideration. given that the terms of the 2nd loe provide that compass’s fee of $1.1m can be “adjusted subject to mutual agreement should there be a change in the scope or finalised transaction structure”, this raises an interesting question as to whether it was for compass as the claimant to establish the requisite consideration by way of a change in the scope or structure of the rto to justify the variation in its fees. however, this issue does not arise for consideration: at [103].20 given the decision to allow the lims’ appeal in ca 23, the issue concerning the judge’s calculation of pre-judgment interest does not arise for consideration. nevertheless, in so far as the judge’s order stipulated that interest was awarded pursuant to s 12 of the civil law act 1909 (2020 rev ed) (“cla”) from the date when the cause of action arose to the date of payment, this is erroneous. section 12 of the cla provides for the court’s discretion to award pre-judgment interest, ie, interest up to the date of the judgment, rather than the date of payment of the judgment debt. the court’s power to award interest on the judgment debt is separately provided for in o 42 r 12 of the rules of court (2014 rev ed). in any event, as it is undisputed that compass had been aware of a share moratorium that prevented the transfer of the bonus shares, the court would have been minded to award pre-judgment interest commencing from the date the share moratorium was lifted, in accordance with both parties’ expectations: at [104]. 21 the judge’s decision to disallow compass’s claim for the cash fee was plainly correct. compass’s pleaded case that the parties had intended for the cash fee to be payable upon completion of the rto, and not pursuant to any corporate advisory service agreement, is simply not borne out by the evidence. given that no such agreement was entered into, it is clear that compass is in no position to claim for the cash fee: at [106].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.