20 april 2016 
media summary 
high court

magistrate’s appeal no 9041 of 2015 
chan chun hong v

public prosecutor [2016]

sghc 75 
background to the

application 
1 child sex tourism has given

rise to a global human rights crisis. the cross-border nature of the problem

demands a transnational response. as part of this response, countries have

acceded to international conventions and treaties that seek to protect the

rights of children and have enacted domestic legislation targeted at deterring

the demand for child sex tourism from within their borders. singapore followed

this path by introducing two provisions into the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev

ed) (“the penal code”): s 376c which gives extra-territorial effect to the

offence of engaging in commercial sex with minors, and s 376d which separately

criminalises acts that facilitate or promote the commission of an offence under

s 376c. 
2 the subject matter of the

appeal pertained to s 376d. this was an appeal brought by the appellant against

the decision of the district judge sentencing the appellant to an aggregate

imprisonment term of 56 months. the appellant pleaded guilty to 12 charges of

which four were the focus of the appeal: one of organising a child sex tour (s

376d(1)(a)) and

three of distributing information to promote child sex tourism (s 376d(1)(c)). the district judge

sentenced the appellant to 36 months’ imprisonment for the s 376d(1)(a) charge, and 20 months’

imprisonment for each s 376d(1)(c)

charge. the sentences for the s 376d(1)(a)

offence and for one of the s 376d(1)(c)

charges were ordered to run consecutively. the appellant contended that the

sentence for each of the offences was manifestly excessive, and in any case,

that the aggregate sentence too is manifestly excessive. 
facts 
3 the appellant first

encountered child pornography in 2009 and from december 2011 to early september

2012, exchanged child pornographic material with other internet users by email.

for transmitting such obscene material by electronic means, a total of 135

charges were brought against the appellant – seven were proceeded with against

the appellant and the remaining 128 charges were taken into consideration for

the purpose of sentencing. the level of the appellant’s involvement in trading

child pornographic material was such that it caught the attention of the united

states federal bureau of investigation (“fbi”) who in turn informed the

singapore police force (“spf”). 
4 following the fbi’s

tip-off, the spf deployed an undercover police officer who used a moniker “teo

dennis” to interact with the appellant from november 2013 to february 2014 to

carry out investigations against the appellant. in the course of their

interactions, the appellant shared information on places to visit overseas to

engage in child sex tourism, and his own experiences. the appellant also

offered to organise a child sex tour for teo dennis and accompany him if teo

dennis would pay for his return air ticket to cambodia. after teo dennis

transferred the sum of money to the appellant, the appellant purchased the air

tickets and contacted a local guide to bring them to brothels during their

trip. the proposed trip never materialised as the appellant was arrested prior

to the trip. 
judgment 
5 the conclusion of the high

court (“the court”) was that save in one respect, the sentences imposed by the

district judge were not manifestly excessive and the appeal was dismissed. the

sentence for one of the offences was reduced, but as it was to run concurrently

with two other sentences ordered to run consecutively, this did not impact the

aggregate sentence ordered by the district judge. 
reasons for the

judgment 
6 the court emphasised that a

strong deterrent message must be sent to all would-be offenders from

participating in the child sex trade in any way to protect vulnerable child

victims from suffering irreparable harm as a result of being trapped in the

trade. the acts of engaging in commercial sex with minors abroad and the

related offence of facilitating or promoting this contribute to such evils as

child trafficking, child pornography, physical abuse and coercion of

child-victims. these are evidently serious offences. “sending countries” must

curb demand for child sex tourism from within their borders through legislation

and robust enforcement. the difficulties of detecting such offences call for

the courts to adjust the punishment so as to ensure that would-be offenders are

sufficiently discouraged from running the risk in the hope that they might

successfully evade arrest. 
7 before considering the

appropriate sentence to be given, the court considered a few arguments made for

the reduction of any sentence imposed in this case. the court considered

whether entrapment was relevant as a mitigating factor in sentencing and

rejected it on the facts of the case. the key question in each case would be

the extent to which the element of entrapment can be shown to have actually

diminished the culpability of the offender. if the agent provocateur provides

nothing more than an unexceptional opportunity for the crime to be committed,

entrapment would not have mitigating value. the court concluded on the facts

that teo dennis had merely provided an unexceptional opportunity for the

present offences to be committed. 
8 the court affirmed that a

mental condition like paedophilia will not be a mitigating factor if it has

little bearing on the offender’s ability to appreciate the nature and

consequences of his actions, or if it has not affected the offender’s ability

to stop himself from committing the criminal act. in either of these

circumstances, the offender is capable of being deterred by punishment and

should therefore face the consequences imposed by the law. the general

understanding of paedophilia and the appellant’s imh report both support the

conclusion that the appellant’s mental condition had neither impacted his

understanding of the offence nor diminished his ability to control his

impulses. 
9 the court considered that

it was permissible for a sentencing court to have regard to relevant decisions

of foreign courts in order to discern sentencing principles and considerations.

however, the precise sentence should not be derived unthinkingly from the

decisions of foreign courts. this is because sentencing, and in particular, a

deterrent sentence such as that necessitated by the facts of the present case,

is founded on, and an expression of, important public policy considerations

which may be unique to our society. in the present context, the court concluded

that the foreign sentencing precedents were relevant because there was no local

sentencing precedent applicable to the offences before the court, and the

foreign precedents cited were enacted to give effect to similar obligations

arising under international treaties or conventions. 
10 in determining the

appropriate sentence in the case, the court drew a distinction between the

full-fledged commercial operator driven by profit and the ad-hoc offender whose

acts are opportunistic and not driven primarily by financial returns. for the

offence of organising a sex tour under s 376a(1)(a) of the penal code, the

court set a benchmark sentence of two years’ and six months’ imprisonment as a

starting point for an ad-hoc or opportunistic organiser who knowingly makes

travel arrangements for a prospective child tourist in circumstances such as

the present where there was no profit motive. 
11 the next stage of the

inquiry would involve the court determining whether the benchmark sentence

should be adjusted based on applicable aggravating or mitigating circumstances.

the court identified some relevant factors specific to offences under s

376a(1)(a):
(a) whether the offence was

committed in the context of the offender being approached to do so by the

recipient;
(b) the extent to which the

offender had facilitated the proposed trip;
(c) whether the proposed trip

has in fact taken place;
(d) the age of the victims in

the “destination country” that might be involved in the proposed trip; and
(e) the number of child

victims that might possibly be targeted in the proposed sex tour. 
12 the court found that the

appellant did not merely arrange the bare logistics of the trip but had held

himself out as a seasoned companion who would ensure that the trip would be a

fruitful and safe venture. the appellant had also targeted girls of a very

young age, and had engaged a local guide well-versed in the hotspots for child

sex tourism. these factors materially enhanced the personal culpability of the

appellant, calling for a sentence higher than the starting point of two years’

and six months’ imprisonment. in these circumstances, the court did not

consider the sentence imposed by the district judge of three years’

imprisonment as excessive. 
13 for the offence of

distributing information to promote child sex tourism, the court classified the

spectrum of offending conduct into categories of ascending levels of

seriousness:
(a) at the lowest end of the

spectrum, there is general information it he reportage provided to like-minded

individuals. a sentence not more than nine months’ imprisonment would as a

general rule be appropriate.
(b) the transmission of

detailed knowledge about specific locations or particular contacts, but

conveyed to like-minded individuals would be more serious. a starting point of

12 to 30 months’ imprisonment is appropriate.
(c) the offender’s

culpability increases sharply when he has encouraged the recipient to embark on

a venture that the recipient was not already intending to embark on. both the

nature of the information and the effect on the initial inclinations of the

recipients can aggravate the offence and where this is the case, a sentence in

excess of 36 months’ imprisonment may be considered as a starting point.
14 at the next stage of the

inquiry, the court will consider where in the spectrum between the ad-hoc

facilitator and the commercial sex tour operator the offender falls. the court

recognised that the closer the offender is to a sophisticated and large-scale

commercial operation, the greater the case for imposing a more serious sentence

falling outside the ranges suggested. the court identified some relevant

factors specific to offences under s 376d(1)(c):
(a) how wide the reach of the

information is;
(b) the nature of the

information and the impact that it is likely to have on the recipient;
(c) whether the information

is difficult to obtain freely from the public domain; 
(d) the extent to which the

offender provided any form of encouragement to the recipient. 
15 the court recognised that

all three charges fell within the moderate range of offending conduct, but

imposed different sentences for each of them. the court set aside the district

judge’s sentence of 20 months’ imprisonment for the 134th charge because the

information distributed was not unavailable in the public domain, and imposed a

12 months’ imprisonment sentence instead. the court upheld the district judge’s

sentence of 20 months’ imprisonment for the 135th charge. for the last charge

which the court viewed as the most serious amongst the three, noting that the

appellant had sent explicit photographs of young girls. given the severity of

the offending conduct in question, the court considered that a sentence of

around 30 months’ imprisonment would not have been out of place. however, no

appeal had been lodged by the prosecution and the court did not interfere with

the sentence imposed. 
16 lastly, the court observed

that s 376d(1)(a) and s 376d(1)(c) did relate to the same legally protected

interest but considered that the 135th charge and the charge under s 376d(1)(a)

related to separate violations of the legal interest of preventing child sex.

the 135th charge did not relate to the organising of a child sex tour, but

concerned the encouragement of a more egregious variety of underaged sex. there

was nothing wrong in principle in ordering the sentences for these two offences

to run consecutively and the court was satisfied that this would not be disproportionate

or involve any mismatch between the overall culpability of the appellant and

the aggregate sentence. the court thus upheld the aggregate sentence imposed by

the district judge of 56 months’ imprisonment and dismissed the appeal. 
 
*this summary is provided

to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to

be a substitute for the reasons of the court.