supreme court of singapore25 november 2022case summarysenda international capital limited v kiri industries limited [2022] sgca(i) 10--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):outcome: court of appeal sets out important principles on the assessment of costs for proceedings in the siccpertinent and significant points of the court’s judgment •  the starting point for the assessment of costs under o 110 r 46 of the rules of court (2014 rev ed) (“roc 2014”) is a subjective inquiry into just what costs were in fact incurred by the successful party in the particular case. •  for proceedings in the sicc, it is typically for the trial court that heard the matter to assess costs under o 110 r 46. the court enjoys a broad discretion as to how costs are to be assessed. •  under o 110 r 46, the burden is on the successful party to prove that its claimed costs are “reasonable costs”. it should adduce evidence of the costs that it had incurred and include a sufficient breakdown of such costs. •  once the successful party adduces the requisite level of information in support of its claimed costs, the evidential burden will generally shift to the unsuccessful party to show that the claimed costs are not “reasonable costs”. the best evidence for this purpose will often be information as to the costs that the unsuccessful party had correspondingly incurred for the matter. it will not suffice for the unsuccessful party to make unsubstantiated contentions that the successful party’s claimed costs are disproportionate, exorbitant or unreasonable.background1 the appellant, senda international capital ltd (“senda”), was ordered by a three-judge bench (“the court”) of the singapore international commercial court (“sicc”) to pay costs and disbursements in sic/s 4/2017 (“sic 4”) in the sum of s$8.1m to the respondent, kiri industries ltd (“kiri”). sic 4 was a suit commenced by kiri, in which it succeeded in its claim of minority oppression against senda. 2 sic 4 was tried before the court in two tranches. the first tranche of sic 4 involved the determination of senda’s liability for minority oppression (“the liability tranche”). it concluded with the court finding that senda had oppressed kiri and ordering that senda buy out kiri’s shareholding in dystar global holdings (singapore) pte ltd, which was to be valued as at the date of its judgment, 3 july 2018. the second tranche of sic 4 involved the determination of the value of kiri’s said shareholding for the purposes of the buyout order (“the valuation tranche”). 3 after the conclusion of the valuation tranche, the court directed the parties to file written submissions on costs. in its submissions, senda submitted, amongst other things, that costs should be assessed based on appendix g of the supreme court practice directions 2013 (“appendix g”). on the other hand, kiri claimed a sum of s$500,000 as costs for the period before the transfer to the sicc (“pre-transfer costs”) and a sum of s$7,297,718.50 as costs for the period after the transfer to the sicc (“post-transfer costs”). kiri also claimed disbursements totalling s$5,944,073.44, which included payments amounting to s$3,336,800.42 made to its valuation expert, accuracy singapore corporate advisory pte ltd (“accuracy”). only that part of kiri’s disbursements claim was relevant in the appeal. 4 kiri’s claimed costs were based on calculations set out in a costs schedule (“kiri’s costs schedule”), which it provided to the court as part of a bundle of documents filed together with its costs submissions. kiri also sought to substantiate its disbursements claim for payments made to accuracy by producing invoices from accuracy, each of which consisted of three components: “fees”, “direct expenses” and “indirect expenses”. save for one invoice, there was generally no explanation or description in the invoices or substantiation by kiri as to what those “direct expenses” and “indirect expenses” were. as for “fees”, which taken together across all the invoices amounted to s$3,036,504.000, kiri did not provide any breakdown and it was claimed as a lump sum. 5 the court awarded kiri s$114,636.90 in pre-transfer costs and s$4,846,178.36 in post-transfer costs. in respect of post-transfer costs, the court held that the “reasonable costs” to which kiri was entitled under o 110 r 46(1) of the roc 2014 referred to all costs that had been “sensibly and reasonably incurred”. the court therefore used the claimed costs for the post-transfer period in kiri’s costs schedule as the starting point for the assessment but excluded some items for double recovery. the court also held that costs incurred in arguing matters doomed to fail or to oppress the other party would not have been “reasonably incurred” and ought not to be awarded as “reasonable costs”. the court held that there was one such issue in sic 4 that had not been reasonably pursued - the account of profits issue in the valuation tranche - and so the costs of that issue were excluded by way of a 30.41% deduction to kiri’s claimed costs, reflecting the value of that part of kiri’s claim to the value of kiri’s overall claim. 6 also, the court only allowed the sums represented as “fees” in accuracy’s invoices to be recovered by kiri as disbursements. those sums were also subject to the same 30.41% discount, as expert fees incurred in relation to the account of profits issue would similarly not be recoverable. the court quantified this part of kiri’s recoverable disbursements as s$2,113,103.15.the appeal 7 in the appeal, senda’s arguments were directed to the post-transfer costs and accuracy’s expert fees. the main point made by senda in the appeal was that the court erred as a matter of principle in (a) how it assessed “reasonable costs”; and (b) in allowing kiri to recover accuracy’s expert fees as disbursements. in particular, senda argued that the information furnished in kiri’s costs schedule did not provide a sufficient breakdown that would enable senda or the court to assess the reasonableness of the claimed costs. the same applied to accuracy’s expert fees because kiri similarly provided no breakdown whatsoever for those fees: at [27]-[29]. 8 the court of appeal identified three issues for determination in the appeal: at [31]. (a) first, what is the proper interpretation of “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46? (b) second, what is the manner in which such “reasonable costs” are to be assessed? (c) third, in the light of the court of appeal’s views on the first and second issues, whether the court erred (i) in its assessment of post-transfer costs; and (ii) in allowing kiri to recover part of accuracy’s expert fees as disbursements? what is the proper interpretation of “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46? 9 the court of appeal held that the starting point of the analysis was the “indemnity principle”, which underlies the costs recovery scheme in the common law civil litigation system. the indemnity principle dictates that a successful litigant is to be indemnified by the unsuccessful party for the legal costs he has incurred. it ensures that a successful party is not prejudiced by having to assert its rights or defend itself against the unsuccessful party in court proceedings. the indemnity principle therefore has a restorative or compensatory function: at [43] to [44]. 10 however, the entitlement of a party to costs recovery is an incident of the legal system’s scheme for costs recovery, which in turn is driven by social policy. depending on what these policies are, limitations may be placed on the restorative or compensatory function of the indemnity principle, limiting what it means for the successful litigant to receive an “indemnity” for his legal costs: at [45]. 11 an example where limitations are placed on the restorative or compensatory function of the indemnity principle is the costs regime under o 59 of the roc 2014, that applies to proceedings in the high court. the civil litigation system in the high court is underpinned by the policy of enhancing access to justice for all. securing complete restoration or compensation to the full extent of the costs incurred by the successful party may be inconsistent with the policy of enhancing access to justice: at [46]. 12 therefore, costs awarded under o 59 are assessed at such a level as would enable a litigant with reasonable merits to pursue justice. this requires the application of an objective standard to determine the level of recoverable costs in each case, shaped by the normative question of what ought to be the amount of costs a successful party may recover for the particular work done in the context of the dispute in question, irrespective of the level of costs it may have actually incurred in the legal proceedings. the use of such an objective standard manifests itself in costs assessments under o 59, in the use by the high court of costs precedents, as well as the use of appendix g in the assessment of costs. the tariffs in appendix g and the costs precedents reflect what is the generally accepted level of costs for a particular type of work done in a particular type of case and also represent the notional level of costs necessary to enable a meritorious litigant to pursue justice: at [47] to [50]. 13 the nature of the disputes that come to be litigated in the sicc means that the parties who come before the sicc will generally be better-resourced. such parties may generally also be more willing to incur greater expense on litigation. the policy of enhancing access to justice is therefore less relevant in the sicc. instead, in the sicc, the principal underlying consideration is a commercial one of ensuring that a successful litigant is not unfairly put out of pocket for sensibly prosecuting his claim or defence: at [51]. 14 an award of costs under o 110 r 46 is thus intended to restore or compensate the successful party for the expense it had reasonably incurred in the legal proceedings. the determination of the level of recoverable costs in each case therefore involves, as a starting point, a subjective inquiry into just what costs were in fact incurred by the successful party in the particular case. still, o 110 r 46 incorporates some limitation on the indemnity principle because the successful party is only entitled to recover “reasonable costs” from the unsuccessful party, and not whatever costs it had incurred. however, given the subjective starting point from which costs are assessed under o 110 r 46, this test of reasonableness will be directed at the costs that had in fact been incurred in the particular case, and not at what an appropriate level of costs to be incurred might be in a generic sense for a type of case similar to the one at hand: at [52]. 15 given the very different bases on which the level of recoverable costs are to be determined under o 59 and o 110 r 46, they are not comparable in terms of their approaches to costs: at [53]. 16 the assessment of “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46 entails the court looking both at whether costs were reasonably incurred and whether the overall quantum of costs is reasonable. the two inquiries are fundamentally inseparable from each other because the manner in which costs were incurred and whether they were reasonably incurred will almost inevitably bear on what the overall quantum of costs would be, and whether that overall quantum is or is not reasonable. the court of appeal therefore disagreed with the court’s view that an inquiry into “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46 excluded the inquiry into whether the costs incurred are, on the whole, reasonable in amount: at [34] to [35], [39] and [55]. 17 the principles the court of appeal had set out in the judgment on “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46 of the roc 2014 are consistent with the position now provided for in o 22 r 3 of the singapore international commercial court rules 2021 (“the sicc rules 2021”), which is the equivalent of o 110 r 46 in the sicc rules 2021: at [56] and [57].  how are “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46 of the roc 2014 assessed? 18 for proceedings in the sicc, it is typically for the trial court that heard the matter to assess costs under o 110 r 46. this position is now made express in the sicc rules 2021: at [67]. 19 as stated in para 152(4) of the sicc practice directions (effective 2 june 2021) (“sicc pd 2021”), the court enjoys a broad discretion as to how costs are to be assessed. thus, whether costs are to be fixed, assessed at the conclusion of the substantive proceeding as the court had done in this case, or assessed by way of a separate process after the conclusion of the proceedings, is a matter for the court’s discretion. this is also the position under the sicc rules 2021: at [68] and [69]. 20 the factors which the court should consider in the exercise of its discretion as to how to determine questions of costs include: (a) the complexity of the issues in the substantive proceeding; (b) the amount of costs claimed by the successful party; and (c) the nature and extent of the differences in the respective positions on costs taken by the parties. in its exercise of discretion, the court should be guided by the need to maintain a measure of proportionality between, on the one hand, the nature of the inquiry into “reasonable costs”, the corresponding level of detail involved in such an inquiry, and the expense associated with such an inquiry, and on the other, the amount of costs claimed by the successful party: at [70]. 21 under o 110 r 46(1), the legal burden is on the successful party to prove that its claimed costs are “reasonable costs”. since the starting point for the assessment of costs under o 110 r 46 is just what costs had actually been incurred by the successful party, the successful party should adduce evidence of the costs it had incurred and include a sufficient breakdown of such costs. this would typically include: (a) a breakdown of the claimed costs in terms of the number of hours claimed; (b) information identifying by whom those hours were incurred, their levels of seniority and corresponding hourly rates; and (c) some explanation as to the types of work those hours were incurred for. this same level of information ought also to apply to expert fees that the successful party seeks to claim as disbursements. this is also the level of information contemplated in form 24 of the sicc pd 2021, as well as form 24 of the sicc practice directions (effective 1 august 2022) that is presently in force: at [72] to [74]. 22 once the successful party has put forth the requisite level of information in support of the contention that its claimed costs are “reasonable costs”, the evidential burden shifts to the unsuccessful party to adduce evidence to show that the claimed costs are not “reasonable costs”. the best evidence that the unsuccessful party can adduce to discharge its evidential burden will often be information as to the costs that it had correspondingly incurred for the matter, which might well be a sound proxy by which the court can determine what the appropriate level of costs in the particular case is. it will not suffice for the unsuccessful party to make unsubstantiated contentions that the successful party’s claimed costs are disproportionate, exorbitant or unreasonable: at [75] to [78].whether the court erred in its assessment of post-transfer costs and in allowing kiri to recover accuracy’s expert fees as disbursements23 kiri’s costs schedule was not defective on the ground of insufficient breakdown. a successful party substantiating its claimed costs is not required to provide an exhaustive line-by-line breakdown of each item of incurred costs. instead, it need only provide information showing broadly how costs had been incurred at each stage of the proceeding. it is sufficient that the overall claimed costs are broken down in terms of the costs incurred at different broad stages of the proceedings, such as commencement of proceedings/pleadings, interlocutory hearings, affidavits, preparation for hearings and attending hearings, as is presently required by form 24. it is then for the paying party to seek further information and if necessary, to seek the assistance or guidance of the court. kiri’s costs schedule, which was based on form 24, was therefore fit for purpose: at [88] and [89]. 24 once kiri furnished such information in support of the contention that its claimed costs are “reasonable costs”, the evidential burden was on senda to adduce evidence showing that kiri’s claimed costs are not “reasonable costs”. however, whether before the court or before the court of appeal, senda adduced no evidence of information pertaining to its own incurred costs. it was insufficient for senda to contend that individual items in kiri’s claimed costs are exorbitant or unreasonably high without explaining why and without pointing, for instance, to its own incurred costs. thus, the court of appeal also did not accept senda’s argument that kiri’s claimed costs are unreasonably high and exorbitant: at [88] and [90]. 25 senda’s arguments in the appeal had not raised any ground for it to interfere with the court’s discretion in its award of post-transfer costs: at [93]. 26 the level of information provided by kiri in its claim for accuracy’s expert fees was deficient and inadequate. this was because no breakdown was provided as to how those sums payable to accuracy had been incurred, in terms of the number of hours claimed, the relevant hourly rates of accuracy’s fee earners, and for what work those hours had been incurred. as there was no breakdown, there would have been no basis on which senda could contend that these sums had not been “reasonably incurred”: at [94]. 27 the court of appeal was initially minded to remit this aspect of the matter to the court for re-assessment but ultimately decided against doing so. this was because the quantum of expert fees that senda had itself correspondingly incurred showed that the level of expert fees which kiri was ultimately allowed by the court to recover was within an appropriate range. remitting this aspect of the matter would therefore serve no purpose than to protract the dispute between the parties: at [96] and [97]. conclusion28 for these reasons, the court of appeal dismissed senda’s appeal: at [99]. 29 for the benefit of the parties and counsel, the court of appeal also provided at the conclusion of its judgment a summary of the points of principle pertaining to the assessment of “reasonable costs” under o 110 r 46 for proceedings in the sicc: at [100]. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court.