supreme court of singapore23 november 2022 case summaryv v technology pte ltd v twitter, inc [2022] sghc 293tribunal appeal no 4 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by judicial commissioner goh yihan):outcome: high court dismisses the appeal. twitter, inc’s opposition to the applicant’s registration of its trade mark succeeds under ss 8(2)(b) and 8(7)(a) of the trade marks act as the competing marks are similar.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  it is important to strictly follow the court of appeal’s holding in staywell hospitality group pty ltd v starwood hotels & resorts worldwide, inc and another and another appeal [2014] 1 slr 911 (“staywell”) that distinctiveness is not a separate step within the marks-similarity inquiry, but rather, it is integrated into the visual, aural, and conceptual analysis. it is substantively inconsistent with staywell’s guidance to consider distinctiveness as a separate threshold inquiry and reasons of “convenience” and “practicality” are not good enough to justify this: at [75] and [76].•  acquired technical distinctiveness should not be considered at the marks-similarity inquiry based on precedent, principle, and policy. the issue of acquired technical distinctiveness should be considered at the likelihood of confusion stage of the inquiry to preserve conceptual clarity: at [90] and [119(c)]. background to the appeal1 this is the applicant’s appeal against the decision in twitter, inc v v v technology pte ltd [2022] sgipos 4, where the principal assistant registrar (the “par”) decided that the respondent’s opposition to the applicant’s registration of the  mark in class 42 (“the application mark”) succeeded under both ss 8(2)(b) and 8(7)(a) of the trade marks act (cap 332, 2005 rev ed) (“the act”). the application mark has a pictorial representation of the applicant’s initials and depicts a hummingbird. the application mark had been registered for a very broad range of goods and services, and some of these overlapped with those for which the respondent’s  mark has been registered (“the registered mark”).2 the applicant is a technology start-up which has been engaged in the development of a mobile application called “v v life” since december 2018. the application is meant to serve as a user’s smart personal concierge by operating as a single platform to host a wide range of products and services that cater to a user’s personal lifestyle needs. the respondent is a publicly listed company on the new york stock exchange since 2013. it owns and operates the twitter platform, which is a microblogging and social networking service where registered users can post and interact with each other with messages known as “tweets”. it is undisputed that twitter is one of the largest social networks globally.3 the applicant first applied to register the application mark on 10 september 2018 and it was published on 24 may 2019. the respondent then filed its notice of opposition on 24 september 2019. the par eventually gave his decision in favour of the respondent on 11 march 2022. the applicant’s appeal in respect of s 8(2)(b) of the act is that the par had erred in finding that (a) the application mark and the registered mark were similar overall; and (b) a likelihood of confusion between the competing marks was established. the applicant does not dispute the par’s finding that the services of the competing marks are similar. the applicant’s appeal in respect of s 8(7)(a) of the act is that the par had erred in finding that the elements of misrepresentation and damage under passing-off were established.the court’s decision 4 the court dismissed the applicant’s appeal. the competing marks are visually and conceptually similar to a fair degree, and there is a likelihood of confusion between the competing marks. there is a real risk that the misrepresentation could divert sales and customers away from the respondent: at [177], [202] and [213].5 in sum, the court agrees with the par that the respondent’s opposition to the applicant’s registration of the application mark succeeded under both ss 8(2)(b) and 8(7)(a) of the act: at [214]. whether the par’s decision in respect of s 8(2)(b) of the act should be upheldthe correct approach to understanding and applying the concept of “distinctiveness” in the marks-similarity inquiry6 the concept of “technical distinctiveness” was introduced for the first time into singapore trade mark law in the case of staywell (where the court of appeal drew a distinction between technical and non-technical distinctiveness) and this concept had originated from the english court of appeal decision of budejovicky budvar narodni podnik v anheuser-busch inc [2002] ewca civ 1534 (“bud”). however, lord walker in bud was merely intending to illustrate existing principles in his own words, and the term “technical distinctiveness” has not been mentioned in subsequent decisions emanating from the uk and other commonwealth jurisdictions. before staywell, the case law was already quite stable in terms of the taxonomy employed to describe the two well-accepted concepts in trade mark law: at [35] to [37] and [43].7 taxonomical uncertainty has resulted after staywell’s introduction of new terms, and if this court was not so bound, it would have respectfully suggested that the word “distinctiveness” should simply mean “technical distinctiveness” without the need to attach any appellation as lord walker never intended to introduce any taxonomical change, and there was and remains a stable taxonomical practice for the various terms. but as this court is bound by higher authority, it can only suggest a more consistent use of the relevant expressions with the understanding that “distinctiveness” bears the following three meanings in so far as it applies to the marks-similarity inquiry: (a) inherent technical distinctiveness, (b) acquired technical distinctiveness; and (c) non-technical distinctiveness: at [52], [60] and [61].8 despite the court of appeal’s guidance in staywell that distinctiveness is a factor integrated into the marks-similarity inquiry, there are numerous cases that have treated distinctiveness as a separate threshold inquiry. this has become common practice as it is probably simpler to deal with the assessment of distinctiveness separately as a matter of practicality, as opposed to truly integrating it into each step of the visual, aural, and conceptual marks-similarity analysis. however, reasons of “convenience” and “practicality” are not good enough to unilaterally decide to depart from what is clearly a binding authority emanating from the court of appeal: at [65], [67], [74] and [76].9 quite apart from stare decisis, there are substantive reasons why distinctiveness should not be analysed as a separate step. the first is the need for conceptual certainty. the danger of treating distinctiveness as a “threshold” inquiry is to mar the very conceptual clarity that the court of appeal emphasised in staywell as this may allow for the permeation of extraneous factors into the marks-similarity inquiry. second, the precise meaning of distinctiveness will depend on the context in which it is being applied within the visual, aural, and conceptual comparisons. to coalesce the issue of distinctness into a single “threshold” risks obscuring the context. it is important to return to the court of appeal’s exhortation in staywell and not treat distinctiveness as a separate, threshold enquiry: at [77] to [79].10 there was a related problem as to whether acquired technical distinctiveness (which would require the consideration of external matter) should be considered in the marks-similarity inquiry. this issue arose from the two apparently contradictory propositions in staywell, namely (a) that distinctiveness is an integral factor in the marks-similarity inquiry; and (b) the assessment of marks-similarity is mark-for-mark without consideration of any external matter. the court is of the view that acquired technical distinctiveness should not be considered at the marks-similarity inquiry for reasons based on precedent, principle, and policy: at [80], [82] and [90].11 in terms of precedent, the decisions at the registry and high court levels were of no direct assistance as there was no clear answer derived. looking at the court of appeal cases both before and after the seminal decision in staywell, a close examination would reveal that while there may have been rather strong obiter comments on the issue, none of these statements actually formed the ratio decidendi of the case as the controversial issue of acquired technical distinctiveness did not have to be decided in the end. given the inconclusiveness of the other apex court decisions, the court must therefore turn to staywell itself where the tenor behind the judgment is that the court of appeal likely regarded the inquiry of acquired technical distinctiveness to include considerations of external matter, and these would go beyond the mark-for-mark comparison. the recognition in staywell that technical distinctiveness comprises both inherent and acquired technical distinctiveness was meant to be descriptive and not prescriptive, and hence, the court likely did not intend to contradict its own statement that the mark-for-mark assessment must be done without consideration of any external matter. as a matter of precedent, this court is bound by staywell: at [92], [95], [100], [104], [106] and [109].12 taking this view is also consistent with principle as, amongst other reasons, this would uphold the distinction between the issue of resemblance between the competing marks and the question of the effect of such resemblance. by considering acquired technical distinctiveness at the likelihood of confusion stage (as opposed to the marks-similarity stage), there is also the benefit of avoiding the evaluation of the same kind of evidence twice over at different stages. finally, on policy, not considering acquired technical distinctiveness at the marks-similarity inquiry would stop the adducing of much irrelevant evidence with the attendant cost consequences on all parties: at [110], [115], [117] and [118].whether the competing marks are similar13 in relation to visual similarity, the court found that the registered mark has a normal level of distinctiveness from a visual perspective in all aspects of the concept, and will correspondingly enjoy only a normal threshold before a competing sign will be considered to be dissimilar to it: at [129].14 the court finds that the competing marks are visually similar considering the general shape and composition of the competing marks of a two-dimensional, side profile of a small bird with curvilinear features, swept back wings opening out, etc. the court should not focus on pedantic stylistic dissimilarities based on a side-by-side comparison of the marks. the general movement of the competing marks is also similar as the average consumer with imperfect recollection would simply perceive two birds which are in flight. the applicant’s rather involved analysis of drawing body lines through the marks was not appropriate. in relation to general features, the court should not adopt a “detailed spot-the-difference” comparison and the various differences identified by the applicant in the beak, eyes, etc, are ultimately trivial and unlikely to feature in the average consumer’s overall impression of the marks. thus, the competing marks have a fair degree of visual similarity: at [135], [137], [152], [153], [155] and [156].15 aural similarity is not relevant for the present case because, amongst other reasons, device-only marks do not contain an oral component and parties have not questioned the par’s holding on this: at [157] to [159].16 regarding conceptual analysis there is no immutable rule that conceptual similarity should be considered as a more important or less important factor in relation to visual similarity when dealing with device marks. the par adopted the correct level of analysis in assessing the conceptual similarity of the competing marks as involving birds in flight. the competing marks were conceptually similar to a fair degree: at [172], [173] and [177].whether there is a likelihood of confusion17 a significant proportion of the relevant public would likely be confused by the application mark in relation to the registered mark as, amongst other reasons, the general public is unlikely to pay much attention and care in the purchasing process (the competing specifications cover a wide range of it and computer software-related goods or services with a broad price range), where the goods or services in question are unsophisticated and inexpensive: at [187] to [189].18 on the present facts, the reputation in the registered mark would tend to reduce the likelihood of confusion between the competing marks as the average consumer would be more discerning of the details that comprise a reputable mark (though the court does not foreclose the possibility of a different relationship between reputation and confusion on different facts). however, there was also a likelihood of confusion arising from the application mark being perceived as a new iteration of the registered mark, and also confusion due to a perceived economic link as the application mark would be viewed by the public as a modified mark that the respondent is using for closely-related digital services. for all these reasons, there is a likelihood of confusion between the competing marks: at [191], [197] to [202].whether the par’s decision in respect of s 8(7)(a) of the act should be upheldmisrepresentation and damage19 as the competing marks are similar and the relevant public is likely to be confused in the light of the fair and notional uses of the application mark under s 8(2)(b) of the act, this would be sufficient to amount to a misrepresentation under s 8(7)(a). there is a likelihood of damage as the parties operate in the same fields of business activity and their respective products provide similar services, such that there is a real risk that the misrepresentation could divert sales and customers away from the respondent: at [211] and [213].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.