supreme court of singapore14 november 2022case summarymuhammad feroz khan bin abdul kader v public prosecutor [2022] sghc 287criminal motion no 32 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: the high court dismisses the application.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  cross-examination in a criminal motion would only be considered, if at all, in the most exceptional of cases because of the “interlocutory nature” of criminal motions: at [10].•  where the state courts had originally denied bail, the high court would only exercise its power under s 97(1)(a) of the criminal procedure code 2010 (“cpc”) and grant bail where the state courts’ decision would give rise to a “serious injustice”, which is the standard that must be met for the high court to exercise its revisionary jurisdiction: at [18]•  medical conditions cannot automatically require a grant of bail due to the fact that they vary greatly in severity. further, this wide range precludes the development of any general rules save that it would be exceptional for a medical condition to justify the grant of bail where the denial of bail is otherwise found to be appropriate on account of a real and substantial flight risk: at [31].•  an applicant seeking the grant of bail on medical grounds should provide medical evidence that documents the severity of his or her medical condition, details the recommended care arrangements, and sets out the concerns harboured over singapore prisons service’s (“sps”) ability to manage the condition: at [32].background 1 the applicant faces 61 charges for various offences, ranging from minor offences under the road traffic act (cap 276, 2004 rev ed), to more serious offences under the penal code (cap 224, 2008 rev ed) such as the sexual penetration of a minor. he was arrested on three separate occasions and bail was extended to him on various occasions. the final grant of bail was on 26 november 2020. but the applicant did not turn up to his next scheduled mention and so bail was revoked and a warrant for his arrest was issued. eventually, the applicant was arrested more than six months later on 6 november 2021. 2 prior to his arrest, the applicant had a history of seizures. while in remand, he suffered seizures on two occasions. he applied to the state courts for bail to be extended to him on the basis that sps could not adequately manage his seizures. this application was rejected.the application 3 the applicant then filed a criminal motion, moving the high court to exercise its powers under s 97(1)(a) of the cpc and grant him bail. he relied on the same ground that he did in the state courts: that the sps could not adequately manage his seizures. 4 the court considered two preliminary issues:a. the applicant had also made an application to cross-examine the chief medical examiner of the sps and the superintendent in charge of his prison cell block. this raised the question of whether cross-examination should be allowed in a criminal motion. the court held that cross-examination in a criminal motion would only be considered, if at all, in the most exceptional of cases because of the “interlocutory nature” of criminal motions: at [10]. b. the court also considered the proper standard to be applied where an application is made under s 97(1)(a) of the cpc to the high court after bail is refused by the state courts. the court held that the high court would only act in such a situation where the state courts’ decision would give rise to a “serious injustice”, which is the standard that must be met for the high court to exercise its revisionary jurisdiction: at [18].5 the court dismissed the application for bail. a. to begin with, it was clear that there was a high risk that the applicant would not surrender to custody, be available for investigations, or attend court: at [26].b. next, the court noted that medical conditions cannot automatically require a grant of bail due to the fact that they vary greatly in severity. further, the court observed this wide range would preclude the development of any general rules save that it would be exceptional for a medical condition to justify the grant of bail where the denial of bail is otherwise found to be appropriate on account of a real and substantial flight risk: at [31].c. the court also observed that an applicant seeking the grant of bail on medical grounds should provide medical evidence that documents the severity of his or her medical condition, details the recommended care arrangements, and sets out the concerns harbored over sps’s ability to manage the condition: at [32].d. the court was satisfied on the evidence that sps could provide sufficient care to the applicant if he did suffer a seizure. further, it was satisfied that there were adequate measures in place that would allow the sps to detect the onset of any seizures that the applicant may suffer: at [38], [39], [42].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.