supreme court of singapore9 november 2022case summaryhow weng fan and others v sengkang town council and other appeals [2022] scga 72 civil appeals nos 196 to 200 of 2019---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by sundaresh menon cj):outcome: the court of appeal (“coa”) allows in part the appeals brought by the members and senior employees of aljunied-hougang town council (“ahtc”) and finds that they do not owe ahtc fiduciary or equitable duties. coa finds these members and senior employees liable to ahtc for negligence in certain respects.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  section 52 of the town councils act (cap 329a, 2000 rev ed) (“tca”) immunises an individual from personal liability where such person has acted in the execution or purported execution of the tca and such act has been done or intended to be done in good faith. section 52 applies even where the town council’s member, officer or employee is being sued by the town council, as opposed to a third party: at [238] to [266].•  the members and senior employees of ahtc did not owe fiduciary or equitable duties of skill and care to ahtc: at [168] to [212].•  the members and senior employees of ahtc owed a common law duty of care and skill in tort to ahtc in respect of their statutory duties under the tca and town councils financial rules (cap 329a, r 1, 1998 rev ed) (“tcfr”) for which they may be liable for damages subject to the limits set out in s 52 of the tca: at [219] to [237].background1 as members of the workers’ party (“wp”), ms sylvia lim swee lian (“ms lim”), mr low thia khiang (“mr low”) and mr pritam singh (“mr singh”) were elected as members of ahtc following the 2011 general elections (“2011 ge”). mr chua zhi hon (“mr chua”) and mr kenneth foo seck guan (“mr foo”) were subsequently appointed as members of ahtc ms lim, mr low, mr singh, mr chua and mr foo are collectively referred to as “the town councillors”. ms how weng fan (“ms how”) and her husband, mr danny loh (“mr loh”), were later appointed deputy secretary/general manager and secretary of ahtc respectively. ms how and mr loh are collectively referred to as the “employees”. fm solutions & services pte ltd (“fmss”), the eighth defendant in the suits, was incorporated on 15 may 2011 with mr loh as its sole director and shareholder. ms how was later appointed a director of fmss on 16 june 2011. at the material time, mr loh also operated a sole proprietorship, fmsi. the employees, fmss and the town councillors are referred to collectively as the “defendants”.2 ahtc and pasir ris-punggol town council (“prptc”) (collectively, the “plaintiffs”) commenced separate suits (the “suits”) against the defendants alleging, among other things, that the town councillors breached various fiduciary and equitable duties owed to ahtc. prptc made similar claims against the defendants because the punggol-east single member constituency was part of ahtc from 2013 to 2015. it became part of prptc on 1 october 2015, resulting in the rights of the punggol-east single member constituency being transferred to prptc on 1 october 2015. as mr loh was deceased at the time of the institution of the suits, he was represented in these proceedings by his wife, ms how, as the personal representative of his estate. the suits were not consolidated but were ordered to be tried at the same time. the trial was bifurcated and this stage of the proceedings was concerned only with the liability of the defendants.3 the suits broadly centred on four main areas of contention: a) first, ahtc’s award of two contracts each for managing agent (“ma”) and essential maintenance service unit (“emsu”) services to fmss (collectively, the “contracts”), which were specifically:i. the first ma and emsu contracts being awarded to fmss in 2011 without a tender being called, purportedly in breach of the requirement for tenders to be called when such tender was waived under rr 74(17) and 74(18) of the tcfr ostensibly as a result of urgent and “very special circumstances”, which the plaintiffs contend did not in fact exist;ii. the second ma and emsu contracts being awarded to fmss in 2012 after a tender was called, in which fmss was the sole bidder, but which the plaintiffs say was a state of affairs entirely engineered by the defendants;b) second, the institution of an allegedly flawed process by which payments were approved and made to fmss and mr loh (trading as fmsi), as well as specific payments made pursuant to the contracts;c) third, claims concerning the propriety of award of contracts to various third-party contractors, namely, (a) lst architects; (b) red-power electrical engineering pte ltd (“red-power”); (c) titan facilities management pte ltd (“titan”) and j keart alliances pte ltd (“j keart”), which the plaintiffs claim either failed to comply with the tcfr or were awarded at higher rates than were necessary; andd) fourth, claims against the defendants for investigation expenses. 4 the judge found that the town councillors and employees owed fiduciary duties to ahtc, by virtue of being town council members and senior executives and members of top management respectively. the judge also interpreted s 52 of the town councils act (cap 329a, 2000 rev ed) (“tca”) as protecting a town council’s members and employees from personal liability only in relation to claims brought by third parties, and not from claims made by a town council itself. thus, the judge found that s 52 did not immunise the town councillors and employees from liability. 5 as to the award of the contracts, the judge made the following findings:a) first, ms lim, mr low and ms how acted in breach of their fiduciary duties owed to ahtc and mr singh, mr chua and mr foo acted in breach of their equitable duties of skill and care in waiving the tender for the first ma and emsu contracts (save that mr loh did not act in breach of his duties in respect of the first ma contract but was liable for dishonest assistance) and fmss was liable for dishonest assistance and knowing receipt.b) second, there was no independent or continuing breach of duties in respect of the award of the second ma and emsu contracts, but there might be possible consequential loss.  6 as to the payments system, the plaintiffs alleged that there were “control failures” in the process that was implemented for ahtc to approve payments to fmss and fmsi. specifically, the allegation was that the system instituted to approve payments to fmss for the contracts and fmsi was flawed because the payments were authorised or made by persons in positions of conflict of interest, that is to say, persons who had an interest in fmss but concurrently held positions in ahtc. these conflicted persons were mr loh and ms how. the judge found that the involvement of conflicted persons in the approval process for payments to fmss and fmsi created an inherent risk of overpayment in the absence of safeguards and that such “control failures” were systemic and represented a breach of the equitable duties of skill and care owed by the town councillors and the employees.7 as to the award of contracts to various third-party contractors, the judge found that there was no breach of duties in respect of the award of the contract to rentokil as the reasons for the decision were properly documented. however, the judge found ms lim, mr singh, mr chua and mr foo (as members of ahtc’s tenders and contracts committee (“tenders committee”)) in breach of their equitable duties of skill and care in respect of the award of the contracts to the following contractors: (a) lst architects; (b) red-power; (c) titan and j keart. 8 as to the plaintiffs’ claim that the defendants’ breaches had resulted in them incurring expenses in investigating those breaches, the judge deemed it preferable to consider the claim for investigation expenses as giving rise to equitable compensation because such expenses represented a loss flowing from breaches of fiduciary duties and the equitable duties of skill and care.the appeals9 on 28 october 2020, all the assets and liabilities of prptc were transferred to sengkang town council (“stc”), and it was on this basis that stc replaced prptc as a party in these appeals. consequently, stc substituted prptc on appeal. civil appeals no 196 to 199 of 2019 (respectively, “ca 196” to “ca 199”) were the town councillors’, employees’ and fmsi’s appeals against the judge’s findings that they were liable for breaches of fiduciary duties, equitable duties of skill and care, dishonest assistance, knowing receipt as well as against the plaintiffs’ claim for investigation expenses. civil appeal no 200 of 2019 (“ca 200”) was stc’s appeal against the judge’s findings on the remedies available to it, arising out of the town councillors’ and employees’ breaches of fiduciary duties and equitable duties owed to ahtc. the court of appeal’s decisionwhether the town councillors and employees owed fiduciary duties and equitable duties of skill and care to ahtc?10 the town councillors and employees did not owe fiduciary duties to ahtc. this was so for various reasons. first, the plaintiffs’ claims stemmed from breaches of statutory duties arising under the tca and tcfr. second, the distinction between public law duties and private law duties meant that a court must carefully consider whether it was appropriate to overlay private law duties over statutory duties such that an impugned act stemming from a breach of statutory duty could also give rise to a concomitant breach of a private legal duty. this was not one such case. third, a town council’s relationship with its members and senior employees was not properly characterised as fiduciary in nature because the town councillors and employees were executing statutory duties under public law. fourth, the potential danger of undermining the doctrine of separation of powers further weighed against the imposition of fiduciary duties in this context. fifth, the parliamentary debates during the introduction of the town councils bill showed that the nature of the relationship between a town council and its members and employees was conceived primarily in political terms, given that the members of the town council were ultimately accountable to the constituents of that town council. finally, the tca and tcfr already prescribe various remedies that are available to secure compliance with the obligations arising thereunder: at [168] to [212].11 the town councillors and employees did not owe equitable duties of skill and care to ahtc. this is because equitable duties of skill and care were parasitic on the finding that the town councillors and employees were fiduciaries, and this had been determined in the negative: at [213] to [217].12 the finding that no fiduciary duties were owed by the town councillors disposed of the claims of dishonest assistance and knowing receipt against the employees as well as fmss. in addition, the issue of the remedies available to the plaintiffs arising from the breach of fiduciary duties and equitable duties of skill and care, which was the subject of ca 200, fell away accordingly: at [410] and [413].whether the town councillors and employees owed a tortious duty of care and skill to ahtc at common law?13 the town councillors and employees owed a tortious duty of care to ahtc at common law: at [236] and [237]. 14 there was factual foreseeability of damage. the actions and/or omissions of the town councillors and the employees in carrying out ahtc’s duties under the tca and the tcfr may cause harm or damage to ahtc: at [223].15 there was sufficient legal proximity between the parties concerned, such that a prima facie duty of care and skill arose. first, the town councillors and employees accepted and assumed their appointments and responsibility for their acts in carrying out their respective duties under the tca and the tcfr for ahtc. second, there was also clearly reliance by ahtc on their acceptance of such responsibility. ahtc, being a body corporate, would necessarily have relied on the actions of the town councillors and the employees: at [224] to [228].16 there were no material policy considerations that negated or limited the prima facie duty of care and skill. when considering the tort of negligence in the specific context of a public body charged with statutory duties, the primary question was whether, in the light of the statutory scheme, such an action might lie. at the second stage of the spandeck test, parliamentary intent is relevant, but not determinative. in this regard, s 52 of the tca was not a blanket statutory immunity clause, suggesting that parliament did contemplate that a private right of action might subsist against a town council’s members, officers and employees for any actionable civil wrong committed by them while executing the duties under the tca, if and to the extent that these actions were not done in good faith. further, the imposition of a common law duty of care on a town council’s members and senior employees would not offend the principle of the separation of powers: at [230] to [235].what is the proper interpretation and scope of s 52 of the tca?17 section 52 stated that “[n]o suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against any member, officer or employee of a town council or other person acting under the direction of a town council for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in the execution or purported execution of this act or any other act”. the purpose of s 52 of the tca should first be gleaned from the text of that provision itself and the ordinary meaning conveyed by the text of s 52 showed that its purpose was to protect individuals attempting to discharge a public duty for a town council in good faith from personal liability for their actions. there was no ambiguity in the text of s 52 and the ordinary meaning conveyed does not lead to a result that is manifestly absurd or unreasonable: at [246] to [248].18 section 52 of the tca applied both to claims brought by third parties and to claims brought by the town council itself. first, the plain text of s 52 left little ambiguity and drew no distinction between claims by third parties and claims by the town council itself against the persons named in s 52. second, because a public body may act in both a private capacity and a public capacity, s 52 would apply only where an action was based on the performance of public or statutory duties rather than on the basis of a private contractual relationship. third, given the purpose of s 52, which was to protect those discharging a public duty in good faith, it made little, if any, difference whether the lawsuit was brought by a third party or by the town council itself. fourth, s 52 would not provide immunity against criminal prosecution. fifth, there was compelling public interest in protecting those who discharged public duties in good faith from liability for acts done in the course of discharging those duties: at [254] to [266] and [291(c)].19  while it was not possible to list exhaustively the factors that indicate when an act was done in good faith within the meaning of s 52 of the tca, good faith would minimally entail the absence of deceit or intentional wrongdoing, and the absence any intent to gain an improper benefit and advantage or of any improper purpose. good faith required that the disputed act be done honestly, for proper purposes and with a basic degree of competence and diligence. gross negligence might amount to bad faith if the negligence was such that a dishonest intention, an improper purpose or an utter lack of diligence could be inferred. moreover, the inquiry into good faith should be a subjective one: at [281] to [283] and [291(b)]. 20 section 52 of the tca was satisfied when the defendant town council member, officer or employee (i) acted “in the execution or purported execution of [the tca] or any other act”, and (ii) such act was done or intended to be done “in good faith”. the burden of proof was on a plaintiff to show that the impugned acts were not in the execution or purported execution of the tca or some other statutory function, while it was incumbent on the defendant to prove good faith: at [285] to [287] and [291(a)].liability of the defendantsthe award of the contracts21 the town councillors and ms how had acted in good faith when they decided to waive the tender for and award the first contract for ma services to fmss. they were thus entitled to claim immunity from personal liability under s 52 of the tca. among other things, the evidence showed that, even at an early stage after the 2011 ge, the town councillors had taken seriously the feedback they received suggesting that cpg facilities management pte ltd (“cpg”), as the then-ma, had started or might soon start “not to manage” or had gone or might soon go into “inactive” management. mr low’s perception of the risk of cpg’s lack of commitment of inadequate performance following the 2011 ge was not challenged by the plaintiffs. further, given the way cpg’s position appeared to the town councillors to be unfolding, it was not surprising that they were developing plans premised on the contingency that cpg would likely not be willing to continue as ma, and for that matter, that none of the other established ma service providers would step in. as the parties were working towards a handover on 1 august 2011, which was the ministry of national development’s directed date for the reconstituted town councils to assume responsibility for the new areas under their charge following the 2011 ge, the feedback received by mr low on 13 may 2011 had clearly and subjectively influenced him, which in turn stressed the urgency of the circumstances. hence, the town councillors’ claim that they perceived the situation as one of urgency was not incredible. simply put, mr low harboured a belief, which developed and strengthened as events unfolded, that the difficulties affecting the prospects of a wp-led town council working successfully, meant that it would better serve the residents in ahtc if the wp-led ahtc engaged a new company, established from scratch, made up of people who would serve a wp-led town council wholeheartedly and competently. and in the town councillors’ view, ms how and mr loh had demonstrated their competence and commitment to serve the wp-led ahtc residents and considered that they could be persuaded to undertake the work as an ma for an interim period of one year so the handover could be effected smoothly and a public tender be called after: at [296] to [403]. 22 the town councillors and the employees had acted in good faith when they decided to waive the tender for and award the first contract for emsu services to fmss. while there might have been some time for a tender to be called, the evidence shows that it was thought likely to be difficult in any event to find a willing service provider given the paucity of emsu service providers, and the town councillors’ perception that the existing emsu service providers in the market were aligned with the pap: at [404] to [407]. 23 there was no breach of duties in respect of the award to fmss of the second contracts for ma and emsu services and the actions carried out by the town councillors were undertaken in good faith. first, no independent cause of action was pleaded against either the town councillors or the employees in respect of the award of second contracts for ma and emsu services to fmss. second, the evidence shows that the appointment of fmss was only an interim plan for one year; there was no evidence at all that the town councillors had designed a plan for fmss to be appointed to either ossify or cement its position for the longer term: at [408] to [413].the payments process24 the town councillors and employees were grossly negligent in implementing the payments process, as the involvement of conflicted persons for payments to fmss and fmsi created an inherent risk of overpayment in the absence of safeguards. this was not mere negligence because the town councillors were aware of ms how’s and mr loh’s potential conflict of interest as early as 19 may 2011. the standing instruction for payments to fmss to be co-signed by the ahtc chairman or vice-chairman was not a sufficient safeguard because there was no system to ensure that each cheque presented was fully verified by independent parties. in some instances, there was no proper verification even by conflicted persons, as supporting documents were signed after a mere tallying exercise. as such, the town councillors and employees breached their tortious duty of care owed to ahtc and are not entitled to rely on the statutory immunity afforded under s 52 of the tca. the appropriate quantum of damages, if any, will be dealt with fully at the assessment damages stage of the suits, subject to proof of loss suffered as a result of the town councillors’ and employees’ actions: at [433] to [454] and [460].25 subject to the parties’ further submissions on ahtc’s pleadings and what the appropriate final order should be the town councillors and employees are liable for such damages in negligence: at [455].the award of the contracts to third-party contractors26 ms lim, mr singh and mr foo, as members of the tenders committee, acted in good faith when awarding the contracts to lst architects over design metabolists and did not breach their duties of skill and care. there was sufficient evidence that they genuinely and honestly assessed the ongoing performance of lst architects and design metabolists, and awarded subsequent contracts to lst architects under the belief that it was the more efficient contractor. they were entitled to rely on s 52 of the tca: at [469] to [476].27 as for the contract which was awarded to red-power instead of digo and terminal 9, even though the latter contracts were for the same services at significantly cheaper rates, mr singh, mr chua and mr foo were not liable as they were not part of the specific decision to award the contract to red-power even though they were part of the standing tenders committee at the time. ms lim was involved in the decision to award the contract to red-power, but she provided no reasons for her decision to do so at the trial. accordingly, ms lim had failed to discharge her burden of proof that she acted in good faith when she chose not to renew the contracts with digo and terminal 9 for ahtc. this also constituted a breach of ms lim’s duty of skill and care in tort owed to ahtc, and ms lim was thus liable in negligence in this respect: at [477] to [484].28 ms lim, mr singh and mr foo acted in good faith when awarding the contracts to titan and j keart and did not breach their duties of skill and care. it is undisputed that a staff member of fmss had sent an e-mail to the members of the tenders committee to request approval to publish a list of contracts, which reflected that there were no options to extend the existing contracts within titan and j keart. the tenders committee relied on these representations. absent evidence that the staff member was untrustworthy or inexperienced, the award of contracts to titan and j keart would not constitute a breach of the town councillors’ duties. it was not unreasonable for the tenders’ committee to rely on the representations, as they did, and this was sufficient to establish that the tenders committee acted in good faith, and therefore were not liable by reason of s 52 of the tca (at [486] to [489]).investigation expenses29 as to the claim for costs of the investigations relating to the town councillors’ and the employees’ alleged breach of duties, the plaintiffs were only allowed to pursue the claim in respect of the issue of the “control failures” in the payments process and ahtc’s award of the contract to red-power. expenses incurred in connection with this part of the legal proceedings might be recovered but only as costs rather than as damages. whether expenses incurred by the plaintiffs, if any, as a resulting of investigating the “control failures” and the award of contract to red-power, were in fact claimable as a matter of costs, was a matter to be canvassed in full before the judge, with the necessary evidence to be led at the assessment stage of the trial (at [490] to [497]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.