supreme court of singapore28 october 2022case summarycivil appeal no 67 of 2021united overseas bank ltd v lippo marina collection pte ltd [2022] sghc(a) 38--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by justice woo bih li):outcome: the appellate division partially allows appeal against decision that property developer was not part of a conspiracy against financing bank.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the respondent developer of a condominium development combined with two property agents and purchasers of units in that condominium to enable the purchasers to obtain housing loans for amounts that were higher than would otherwise be obtainable from the appellant bank. the respondent awarded significant rebates to the tune of well over $1m for each of the units purchased, which were not reflected in the prices stated on the respective options to purchase issued by the respondent. the stated purchase prices on the respective options to purchase thus did not reflect the actual price at which the respective units were purchased.•  the respective valuations obtained by the appellant bank did not truly support the stated purchase prices on the respective options to purchase. the independent appraisers used a method which considered the stated purchase prices as the benchmark for valuations for the sale of other units within the same condominium development. all of the appraisers attested that had they been aware of the substantial rebate given by the respondent vendor, they would have considered such a rebate in valuing the units.•  the appeal against the judge’s dismissal of the appellant bank’s claim against the respondent vendor in the tort of deceit (for allegedly misrepresenting to the appellant that the respondent had received payments of certain fees for each of the respective units) failed. the appellant failed to demonstrate that the alleged misrepresentations by the respondent was made to the appellant.1 this dispute concerned housing loans disbursed by the appellant (“uob”) to purchasers of 38 units between december 2011 and july 2013 in a condominium development at sentosa cove (the “38 units” and “marina collection” respectively) which was developed by the respondent “lippo”. as the vendor of the 38 units, lippo issued each option to purchase (“otp”) and stated the purchase price therein (“spp”). the sales of the 38 units were brokered by two property agents, a husband-and-wife team (“mr goh” and “ms ho” respectively). lippo was represented by its director (“ms woo”). by 1 april 2015, all 38 purchasers had defaulted.background2 the marina collection was launched for sale in or around december 2007. at the material time, the government introduced various measures to cool the property market in singapore. between december 2007 to 10 march 2011, only 42 of 124 units in the marina collection were sold.3 the payment schedule for each of the 38 units was as follows: (a) 1% of the spp to be paid when lippo issued an otp to the purchaser (“1% option fee”); (b) 4% of the spp to be paid upon the exercise of the otp by the purchaser (“4% exercise fee); (c) at least 15% of the spp to be paid prior to completion (“completion fee”); and (d) about 70% to 80% of the spp to be disbursed by uob as the amount of housing loan granted to the purchaser (upon the satisfaction of certain conditions such as uob’s satisfaction that the purchaser had paid the difference between the spp and the housing loan). close to completion, lippo’s solicitors (“tsmp”) wrote to the solicitors for the purchasers (“pkwa”) to inform that lippo had received payment of the completion fee for the relevant unit. pkwa also acted for uob.4 in or around december 2011, mr goh raised difficulties in getting buyers for the marina collection which arose because of the government’s cooling measures. under the market conditions, ms woo and mr goh agreed to a “furniture rebate plan” (“frp”) which entailed the following: (a) the purchaser received an in-principle sum amounting to a furniture rebate (“fr”) from lippo – which itself did not exist tangibly but only notionally – prior to issuing the otp;(b) despite such in-principle agreement, lippo issued an otp to each purchaser stating a purchase price that did not reflect the fr;(c) the purchaser would provide lippo with cheques for the 4% exercise fee and the completion fee based on the spp;(d) lippo, however, would not encash any of these cheques;(e) upon uob’s approval of a purchaser’s housing loan application for the purchase of his unit, lippo would document the fr by way of letter, which was used to set-off against the 4% exercise fee and completion fee (meaning that these fees were paid from the loan by uob and not any other party);(f) the fr granted by lippo to the purchaser amounted to the total of the 4% exercise fee, completion fee, and a surplus sum for the purchaser; and(g) lippo would return the cheques for the 4% exercise fee and completion fee to the purchaser without encashing them on completion (effectively meaning that no part of such fees were paid by the purchaser).the actual purchase price that each purchaser was liable to pay lippo for (and which would be paid using the loan with a leftover surplus) was thus spp less the fr, which is referred to as the adjusted purchase price (“app”).5 the purchasers were required to declare any rebates that they had received in the application forms for housing loans. all except one failed to declare the fr. the sole purchaser who stated that he had received a rebate grossly underdeclared it as $3,510 compared to the true quantum of the fr received of $1,784,150. the end result was that uob was unaware of the fr (or its full extent in that one case) and hence the app.6 uob was also led to believe that the purchasers were to pay the difference between the spp and the loan to be disbursed (the “balance purchase price”, comprising the 1% option fee, the 4% exercise fee and the completion fee). the balance purchase price was not in fact paid by any of the 38 purchasers. nor was any part of the app paid by the purchasers from their own pockets at the end of the conveyancing process.7 uob claimed against lippo in the tort of unlawful means conspiracy. uob pleaded that the conspiracy between lippo and the two property agents were to obtain financing, among others, in excess of the app. in that connection, the spp was inflated by lippo to the extent of the fr. uob also claimed against lippo in the tort of deceit on the basis that lippo, among others, represented that it had received payment of the completion fee for each property when such payment had not been made (the “payment misrepresentations”).8 the judge below (the “judge”) dismissed both of uob’s claims against lippo. the judge found that lippo knew that the purchasers concealed the fr from uob and that uob would be over-lending. however, such knowledge was insufficient to sustain the inference that lippo had combined with the other defendants to deceive uob. lippo’s agreement to the frp could be explained by its apathy to the unlawful activities taking place at the loan procurement stage. furthermore, the judge found that there was no true price for real property and each of the units were supported by valuations such that uob could not have been said to have suffered harm as a result of the conspiracy. uob’s claim in unlawful means conspiracy against lippo was accordingly dismissed. uob’s claim in deceit was also dismissed. the judge found that uob needed to ensure that the balance purchase prices were paid before it disbursed the housing loans. however, uob did so through a form issued by pkwa (ie, form 3) to the exclusion of the representations contained in letters from tsmp (“tsmp letters”). the judge accordingly held that there was no reliance on the payment misrepresentations.9 uob appealed against the judge’s decision, contesting the judge’s determination of both claims. decision on appeal10 the fr was not a genuine rebate for several reasons. first, the sheer magnitude of the fr (ie, the difference between the app and the spp), in absolute numbers and in percentage terms (ranging between 30.6% and 52.6% of the app) suggested that the fr was not a genuine rebate. second, contrary to lippo’s argument, the respective valuations obtained by uob did not truly support the spp. the independent appraisers used a method which considered the spps as the benchmark for valuations for the sale of other units within the marina collection. all of the appraisers attested that had they been aware of the substantial rebate given by the respondent vendor, they would have considered such rebate in valuing the units. third, the only logical reason why lippo did not state the app on the otp and the fr was concealed from uob and the appraisers was to obtain a valuation and a loan that was higher than would otherwise be obtainable if the fr were revealed to uob which was, in turn, because the spp was an inflated price and not the real purchase price (at [48]–[49], [56]–[57], [60] and [72]).11 the real purchase price and the true value of a property ought not to be conflated. the real purchase price was the net price which lippo and the purchasers agree that the purchasers are to pay (ie, after taking into account all rebates). the real purchase price is different from the true value. on the facts, the real purchase price was the app, not the spp. there was no doubt that lippo and the brokers knew that the real purchase price was as such. whether the spp can be supported by valuations was a separate question and was answered in the negative (at [61]–[63]).12 the spp was not the real purchase price. it was an inflated price from the real purchase price which was the app which lippo had falsely reflected on the otp (the “otp misrepresentations”). the otp misrepresentations were crucial because the entirety of the financing and the conveyancing processes flows directly from the spp in the otp. the genesis of the steps taken under the frp was the issuance of the otp by lippo using the spp and not the app such that it could not be said that lippo was merely apathetic to the loan procurements. another step was to mislead its solicitors and pkwa  into believing that the balance purchase price, which amounted to at least 20% of the spp, had been paid so that uob would disburse the moneys under the loans (at [95]–[96], [101]–[102] and [108]).13 whether the frp was part of a plan to earn profits by way of investing in the 38 units cannot ipso facto demonstrate that there was no intention to cause damage to uob. even taking lippo’s case at its highest, injury to uob must have been intended as a means to an end. the harm that uob suffered is that it had lent more than it would have had the app been reflected in the otp. it did not assist lippo to say that there would have been no actual loss if the purchasers had not defaulted. that is a rhetorical argument since all 38 purchasers in the present case have defaulted on their respective loans (at [119]–[120] and [124]).14 the tsmp letters suggesting that the completion fee had been paid by 37 out of the 38 purchasers could not found uob’s claim in deceit as against lippo. the tsmp letters which were pleaded were addressed to pkwa in pkwa’s capacity as solicitors for the purchasers. it would have been a simple matter for uob to elaborate that lippo knew and intended that the false information would be further conveyed to uob’s solicitors and hence also to uob for both of them to act upon. it did not do so and, to that extent, uob’s pleading was defective (at [138] and [140]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.