supreme court of singapore27 october 2022case summarymunusamy ramarmurth v public prosecutor [2022] sgca 70criminal appeal no 31 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice judith prakash):outcome: the court of appeal dismisses the appeal.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  law enforcement officers are not required to make it clear to the accused during investigations what evidential presumptions will be relied upon by the prosecution at trial: at [35].•  an accused who receives drugs with the intention of returning them could still be liable for trafficking or possession for the purposes of trafficking if he knew or intended that the “bailment” would be part of the process of supply or distribution: at [66].•  misconduct of an investigating officer during the trial could not give rise to a “presumption of prejudice”. even if such a presumption could arise, it would need to be precipitated by at the very least, substantial misconduct: at [75]. background 1 diamorphine (“the drugs”) was found in the rear box of the appellant’s motorcycle and he was arrested. he claimed that the drugs were left in the rear box of his motorcycle by a person referred to as “boy” who was acting on the instructions of a man named “saravanan”. his defence was that he thought the drugs were actually stolen handphones and that “boy” was going to retrieve them later. the judge rejected his defence and he was convicted in the general division of the high court on one charge of possessing 57.54g of diamorphine for the purposes of trafficking under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“mda”) and was sentenced to the mandatory death penalty.2 on appeal, the appellant challenged the judge’s decision on (a) the accuracy and authenticity of his investigative statements; (b) whether he had knowledge of the nature of the drugs; (c) whether he possessed the drugs for the purposes of trafficking; and (d) the conduct of the investigating officer (“io”) during the trial. decision3 the court of appeal (“ca”) dismissed the appeal.accuracy and authenticity of the statements 4 the ca rejected the appellant’s arguments that some of his investigative statements were either inaccurate or fabricated as it found no reason to depart from the trial judge’s conclusions: at [23].5 the appellant also raised several other arguments:a. first, he argued that less weight should be given to his investigative statements as he was not legally advised on the operation of the presumptions under the mda. the ca rejected this argument, finding that there was no prejudice to the appellant by virtue of not having the mda presumptions explained to him: at [33].b. second, he argued that it should have been made clear to him, during investigations, what presumptions would be relied upon by the prosecution. the ca rejected this argument as the case cited by the appellant did not support this proposition: at [35].knowledge of the nature of the drugs6 the ca did not accept that the trial judge erred in finding that the appellant had actual knowledge of the drugs. although he did deny knowledge in his early investigative statements, this by itself could not rebut the presumption of knowledge under the mda. further, the trial judge was entitled to reject the appellant’s assertion that he thought the drugs were stolen handphones: at [41].possession for the purposes of trafficking 7 the appellant further argued that he did not possess the drugs for the purposes of trafficking, raising several arguments, all of which were rejected by the ca:a. first, the appellant took issue with the prosecution’s argument that the weight of the drugs was suggestive of an intention to traffic. he argued that this was tantamount to invoking the presumption of trafficking under the mda which would be impermissible as the prosecution had already relied on the presumption of knowledge. the ca rejected this argument as it was based on a misunderstanding of the effect of a presumption: at [54]. b. secondly, the appellant argued that he did not possess the drugs for the purposes of trafficking as they were going to be retrieved by “boy”, ie, he raised the “bailment” defence. the ca held that this defence was rightly rejected by the trial judge because it was an afterthought raised by the appellant. furthermore, the ca observed that even if the appellant’s version of events was accepted, it would not have been sufficient to establish the “bailment” defence because the circumstances showed that he knew or intended that his storing of the drugs was a part of the process of supply or distribution: at [59]–[60], [68]–[71].conduct of io 8 the appellant’s final point was that the io had gestured to a prosecution witness during trial, and that this had prejudiced his case thus rendering his conviction unsafe. but the appellant did not point the ca to any concrete examples of prejudice and instead asked the ca to presume prejudice. the ca rejected this submission because there was no case law supporting a presumption of prejudice. it further observed that if such a presumption could ever arise, there would need to be “substantial misconduct”, which in this case did not exist : at [75]–[76]. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.