supreme court of singapore24 november 2023case summarypt oki pulp & paper mills v sunrise industries (india) ltd and another appeal [2023] sghc(a) 38appellate division of the high court – civil appeal nos 10 and 15 of 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by justice kannan ramesh):outcome: the appellate division of the high court partially allowed cross-appeals against the decision of the general division of the high court in hc/s 8/2017, holding that: (a) pt. oki pulp & paper mills (“oki”) was to refund us$832,413.20 (with pre-judgment interest thereon at 5.33% per annum) to sunrise industries (india) ltd (“sunrise”); and (b) sunrise was to pay oki liquidated damages of us$144,154.50 (with pre-judgment interest thereon at 5.33% per annum). sunrise was considered the successful party in the proceedings below, and the judge’s decision as to the costs of the trial was not disturbed. as for the costs of the appeals, costs of s$20,000 (inclusive of disbursements) was awarded to oki in respect of ad/ca 10/2023, and s$30,000 (inclusive of disbursements) to sunrise in respect of ad/ca 15/2023. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  as a matter of law, an extension of the last shipment date in a letter of credit does not ipso facto result in a corresponding amendment to the last shipment date in the underlying contract. nevertheless, an amendment to a letter of credit may be evidentially relevant to the question of whether the parties intended to also amend the underlying contract correspondingly. any such amendment must be weighed against the entire factual matrix to ascertain whether it is evidentially significant: at [57]-–[58].•  pre-judgment interest generally runs from the date of accrual of the claimant’s loss. where a claim and a counterclaim involve losses accruing at different times, the date on which pre-judgment interest should run with respect to each claim would likewise be different. where there are successful claims and counterclaims, and assuming the court is inclined to exercise its discretion to award interest, the court must determine the date from which pre-judgment interest should run on each claim before setting off those sums awarded under those claims: at [125]–[126].background to the appeals and the material facts 1 the appellant in ad/ca 10/2023 (“ad 10”), pt. oki pulp & paper mills (“oki”), and the appellant in ad/ca 15/2023 (“ad 15”), sunrise industries (india) ltd (“sunrise”), agreed that sunrise would supply oki certain goods (the “goods”) and install them in a pump mill (the “mill”) in indonesia owned by oki. the parties entered into a contract for the supply of the goods (the “supply contract”) and a separate contract for the installation of the goods (the “installation contract”). various amendments were made to both contracts in the course of the parties’ dealings. 2 the supply contract was amended twice by “supply contract a1” and “supply contract a2” (collectively referred to as the “supply contract”). the total contract price of the supply contract was us$8,324,132 and was to be paid by oki in three tranches. under the supply contract, sunrise was required to procure a bank guarantee for the sum of us$832,413.20 (the “bank guarantee”), which it did from dena bank limited (“dena bank”), the second defendant in the suit below. 3 the installation contract was amended twice in accordance with the supply contract by “installation contract a1” and “installation contract a2” (collectively referred to as the “installation contract”). the total contract price of the installation contract was us$1,441,545. 4 on 24 september 2015, at oki’s request, a letter of credit for 80% of the initial contract price of the supply contract was issued to sunrise (“lc1”). lc1 was amended and re-issued on 16 november 2015 (“lc1 a1”) to reflect the increase in the contract price in supply contract a1. a second letter of credit (“lc2”) was later issued on 11 january 2016 in view of the increase in the contract price arising from supply contract a2. the letters of credit are collectively referred to as the “lcs”. 5 the delivery dates (ie, the date of arrival of the goods at the port of discharge in indonesia (the “port of discharge”)) under the supply contract were amended by supply contract a1 and supply contract a2 to 15 january 2016 (the “supply contract delivery deadline”). the last shipment date in the lcs differed from that stated in the supply contract in that lc1 a2 and lc2 stipulated the last shipment date as 29 february 2016. the parties accept that the goods were shipped by sunrise before 29 february 2016 and arrived at the port of discharge on 24 march 2016. it was apparent that the last shipment date in the lcs was after the date of delivery in the supply contract.6 to perform its obligations under the installation contract, sunrise deployed its personnel to the project site (the “project site”) at the mill in january 2016. sunrise’s general manager for the project, mr pradeep mahadeo thorat (“mr pradeep”), arrived at the project site on or about 25 february 2016. sunrise’s installation works stalled due to various disputes between the parties regarding, amongst other things, the provision of accommodation for sunrise’s personnel and payment by oki of moneys under the supply contract. sunrise demobilised its personnel on 8 march 2016 pending resolution of these disputes. 7 on 17 may 2016, sunrise informed oki that it did not wish to continue performing the installation contract as it had not received payment according to its terms. sunrise stated that if oki wished to proceed, it could vary the installation contract, make payment of the final 10% of the contract price in the supply contract (the “final 10%”) and make full payment under the installation contract under an irrevocable letter of credit. on 18 may 2016, oki informed sunrise that it did not wish to continue business with sunrise, and sunrise did not complete the installation works. on 23 may 2016, oki engaged pt piping systems indonesia (“pt piping”) to complete the installation works. on 10 october 2016, oki made a demand on the bank guarantee in the sum of us$832,413.20 to satisfy (in part) amounts allegedly due to oki from sunrise for breach of the supply contract which it received. on 24 may 2017, following commencement of the suit below by sunrise, oki issued sunrise formal notices of termination of the supply contract and the installation contract. 8 on 11 september 2022, in hc/sum 3368/2022 (“sum 3368”), sunrise sought leave to amend its reply and defence to counterclaim (amendment no 2). the application was partially allowed, with the amended pleading filed on 13 september 2022, the first day of trial.decision on appeal9 the following issues arose in the appeal: (a) whether the court had jurisdiction to hear sunrise’s appeal against the decision of the high court judge (the “judge”) partially allowing sum 3368; (b) whether sunrise had breached the supply contract by making late delivery of the goods such that oki was entitled to call on and receive the sum of us$832,413.20 under the bank guarantee; (c) whether oki was entitled to a refund of the amounts paid to sunrise under the supply contract; (d) whether sunrise was entitled to payment of the final 10%; (e) whether sunrise or oki had breached the installation contract and the remedies available to the party not in breach including the right to terminate the contract; and (f) whether sunrise and/or oki was entitled to pre-judgment interest on its claim or counterclaim respectively: at [30]. sunrise’s appeal against the judge’s decision in sum 336810 the effect of s 29a(1)(c) read with para 3(h) of the fifth schedule of the supreme court of judicature act 1969 (2020 rev ed) was that permission of the appellate court was required before an appeal may be brought against a decision of the general division of the high court where a judge makes an order refusing permission to amend pleadings. as sunrise failed to obtain permission to appeal, the court was not seised with jurisdiction to hear sunrise’s appeal against the judge’s decision in sum 3368: at [34]–[38]. whether sunrise breached the supply contract by failing to deliver the goods on time11 it was apparent that the last shipment date stated in the lcs, 29 february 2016, was well after the supply contract delivery deadline on 15 january 2106. if the lcs had the effect of extending the last shipment date under the supply contract to 29 february 2016, it followed that the last date for delivery of the goods to oki at the port of discharge could no longer be 15 january 2016. thus, the question of whether sunrise had breached the supply contract by failing to deliver the goods on time turned on the anterior question of whether the supply contract delivery deadline was extended by reason of the amendment to the last shipment date in the lcs to 29 february 2016: at [46].12 oki was precluded by its pleadings from arguing that the supply contract delivery deadline had not been extended by agreement. oki was bound to its position in the defence and counterclaim that the parties had agreed to extend the last shipment date under the supply contract to 29 february 2016 by the amendments in the lcs, although that plea was qualified by the plea of duress. however, duress was not pursued in evidence at trial, put to sunrise’s witness in cross-examination, or raised in these appeals. given that the last shipment date of 29 february 2016 was well past the supply contract delivery deadline, it necessarily followed that there was an extension of the supply contract delivery deadline to a date after 29 february 2016. it was therefore not open to oki to assert that the goods should have been delivered at the port of discharge by 15 january 2016. thus, sunrise had not breached the supply contract by failing to deliver the goods by 15 january 2016: at [47]–[52]. 13 oki also did not plead that: (a) sunrise had failed to comply with the conditions stated in the supply contract to vary the supply contract delivery deadline; and (b) any agreement to extend was unenforceable for want of consideration, which precluded it from making these arguments: at [53]–[55].14 as a matter of law, an extension of the last shipment date in a letter of credit does not ipso facto result in a corresponding amendment to the last shipment date in the underlying contract. nevertheless, an amendment to a letter of credit may be evidentially relevant to the question of whether the parties intended to also amend the underlying contract correspondingly. any such amendment must be weighed against the entire factual matrix to ascertain whether it is evidentially significant: [57]–[58].15 a holistic assessment of the factual matrix suggested that in agreeing to amend the last shipment dates in the lcs, oki and sunrise correspondingly agreed to vary the last shipment under the supply contract, and consequently also the supply contract delivery deadline. throughout the parties’ correspondence, oki did not reserve its right to seek damages against sunrise for delay in delivery under the supply contract, which showed that the focus of the parties was to amend the last shipment date in the supply contract, with the lcs being amended to ensure conformity. oki also never timeously asserted that sunrise had breached the supply contract as a result of failing to deliver the goods by 15 january 2016. finally, there was sound reason for the parties to agree to extend the last shipment date and the supply contract delivery deadline as oki had made downpayments under the supply contract belatedly. payment of the downpayments triggered the running of time for delivery. the late payment provided a basis for sunrise to contend that the deadline for delivery of the goods had to be pushed back: at [60]–[74]. 16 sunrise was therefore not in delay in the delivery of the goods. the question of breach of the supply contract therefore did not arise. oki was thus not entitled to any liquidated damages for late delivery under the supply contract and was not entitled to call on the bank guarantee and receive the sum of us$832,413.20. accordingly, oki was to refund to sunrise the sum of us$832,413.20 paid by dena bank: at [75]–[77].oki’s entitlement to a refund under the supply contract17 under the terms of the supply contract, oki must have terminated the supply contract on the ground that sunrise was in delay in the delivery of the goods thereby entitling oki to the maximum amount of liquidated damages in order to be entitled to a refund of the moneys it had paid thereunder. as sunrise was not in delay, there was no basis for oki to seek a refund. in any event, absent specific contractual provisions to the contrary, where a purchaser exercises his right to terminate a sale contract and claim a full refund prima facie the purchaser is not permitted to at the same time retain the goods delivered as that would be akin to double recovery. as oki had retained the goods by accepting delivery of and installing them, oki’s entitlement to a refund under the supply contract was not established: at [78]–[82].the final 10% of the supply contract 18 sunrise was not entitled to the final 10%. the final 10% was only payable after sunrise had carried out the installation works and oki had issued a “certificate of performance test acceptance” (the “acceptance certificate”) to it. the fact that pt piping had carried out the installation works and was issued the acceptance certificate was not relevant: at [85]–[89].19 sunrise’s submission that certain terms ought to be implied in the supply contract to enable the final 10% to be paid was not accepted. the implied terms would not have satisfied either the business efficacy test or the officious bystander test in circumstances where sunrise was in repudiatory breach of the installation contract: [92]–[94]. the installation contract 20 sunrise conceded in its pleadings that the installation works were to be completed by 31 january 2016. as the installation works remained uncompleted when oki terminated the installation contract on 18 may 2016, sunrise was in delay. oki was entitled to maximum liquidated damages of 10% of the price of the installation contract, which was us$144,154.50: at [97]–[104].21 oki did not breach the installation contract in not paying sunrise the first 20% of the price of the installation contract. the first 20% would only be payable two months after mr pradeep arriving at the project site and continuously working there in that period. as sunrise had demobilised its personnel on 8 march 2016, oki’s obligation to pay the first 20% did not arise. sunrise was in breach of the installation contract by insisting on payment of this sum as a condition for continuing the installation works: at [105]–[108].22 oki did not breach the installation contract in requiring advance payment for accommodation to be provided for sunrise’s personnel or refusing to set off the cost of accommodation against the first 20%. oki was not obliged under the installation contract to provide accommodation for sunrise’s personnel. sunrise was in breach of the installation contract by insisting that oki provide such accommodation and set off the costs thereof against payments under the installation contract: [109]–[112]. 23 sunrise was in repudiatory breach of the installation contract as a result of its e-mail of 17 may 2016, where it stated that it was not prepared to continue performing the installation contract unless, among other things, oki made full payment under the installation contract and paid the final 10%. further, sunrise’s demobilisation from the project site on 8 march 2016 made it not possible for it to perform the installation contract and was therefore also a repudiation of the installation contract: at [114]–[117].24 oki was entitled to terminate the installation contract either: (a) due to sunrise’s repudiation; or (b) under the terms of the installation contract. oki validly exercised its right to terminate by its e-mail of 18 may 2016: at [118]–[120].pre-judgment interest 25 pre-judgment interest generally runs from the date of accrual of the claimant’s loss. where a claim and a counterclaim involve losses accruing at different times, the date on which pre-judgment interest should run with respect to each claim would likewise be different. where there are successful claims and counterclaims and the court is inclined to exercise its discretion to award interest, the court must determine the date from which pre-judgment interest should run on each claim before determining whether it is appropriate to set off the sums awarded as regards those claims: at [125]–[126].26 sunrise was entitled to pre-judgment interest on the sum of us$832,413.20 that oki was to refund to sunrise. pre-judgment interest was to run from 23 may 2019 (when dena bank made payment to oki resulting in sunrise owing a liability to dena bank for this sum) until the date of judgment. although the supply contract contained a provision precluding a claim for interest by sunrise on unpaid sums, as oki did not plead that provision, it could not be raised: at [127]–[131].27 oki was entitled to pre-judgment interest on its counterclaim for liquidated damages under the installation contract. oki’s entitlement to liquidated damages accrued from 28 february 2016 until 29 march 2016 when the cap of 10% of the price of the installation contract was reached. pre-judgment interest was to run from the mid-point between those two dates, ie, 14 march 2016 until the date of judgment. it was immaterial that oki did not plead its entitlement to pre-judgment interest, as pre-judgment interest is awarded at the court’s discretion and need not be pleaded: at [132]–[133].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.