supreme court of singapore23 november 2023case summarydbo and others v dbp and others [2023] sghc(i) 21--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of chua lee ming j, thomas bathurst ij and zhang yongjian ij (delivered by chua lee ming j):outcome: the sicc dismissed the application to set aside an arbitral award. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the arbitral tribunal is not bound to assume the existence of a contract in an application for early dismissal; it only had to assume the existence of the facts alleged in support of the contention that the contract existed: at [44].•  the procedure for early resolution under the arbitration rules of the singapore international arbitration centre (6th edition, 1 august 2016) could be properly invoked in plain and obvious cases where either the claim or the defence was undoubtedly legally unsustainable: at [60]. •  a disagreement with the arbitral tribunal’s application of a legal test to the facts of the case is not a ground for challenging the award: at [62].•  the arbitral tribunal did not act in breach of natural justice by failing to call for a hearing for witnesses to give evidence where it had proceeded with the hearing on the application for early dismissal on the basis that the underlying pleaded facts (by the party which subsequently argued that natural justice was breached) were true: at [47] and [66].background facts1 a facility agreement (the “fa”) was entered into by the 1st and 2nd applicants and the 1st to 4th respondents, in which the 2nd to 4th respondents (the “lenders”) granted a term loan facility (the “loan”) to the 1st and 2nd applicants (the “borrowers”). the 1st respondent was the agent and security agent (the “agent”). the 3rd and 4th applicants, and the 5th respondent were the guarantors (together, the “guarantors”). the loan was for the construction and development project in the borrowers’ home country (the “project”). the covid-19 pandemic resulted in several control orders that adversely affected the sales of units in the project and the 2nd applicant’s income from a shopping mall (the “mall”) that it owned, operated and managed. the borrowers were unable to repay the loan when it matured. 2 the fa included an agreement providing for disputes to be resolved by arbitration in accordance with the arbitration rules of the singapore international arbitration centre (6th edition, 1 august 2016) (the “siac rules”), with the arbitral seat in singapore. parties proceeded to arbitration. the arbitration claimants, comprising the borrowers and guarantors, claimed that the fa was discharged by frustration. their case was based on the allegation that there was an express term, condition, implied term and/or common assumption that the payment under the fa was to be made from specific sources of funds (ie, the sales of the units in the project and/or income from the mall). the arbitration respondents, comprising the agent and lenders, denied that the fa was frustrated and counterclaimed against the arbitration claimants. 3 the arbitration respondents filed an application for early dismissal (“aed”) under rule 29 of the siac rules seeking a dismissal of the arbitration claimants’ claim that the fa had been discharged by frustration. during the hearing on the aed, the arbitration claimants sought to amend their pleadings for the purposes of the aed to include a pleading that there was a collateral contract that the funds for repaying the amounts due under the fa would come from the sales of units in the project and income from the mall (the “collateral contract”). the arbitration respondents did not object to the amendment. the arbitral tribunal (the “tribunal”) delivered its partial award (the “partial award”), allowing the aed on the basis that the arbitration claimants’ argument that the fa had been discharged by frustration was “manifestly without legal merit”. amongst others, the tribunal found that the collateral contract could not be made out by the facts relied on by the arbitration claimants in their pleadings. 4 the applicants subsequently applied to the general division of the high court to set aside the partial award, and the application was then transferred to the singapore international commercial court. the applicants’ case was that the tribunal acted in breach of natural justice and/or acted in excess of jurisdiction. 5 the applicants’ case was based on the following arguments. first, the tribunal had failed to assume the existence of the collateral contract despite: (a) having proceeded with the hearing on the basis that it would be assumed that the collateral contract existed, and the arbitration respondents having acknowledged that the hearing would proceed on this basis; and/or (b) the arbitration respondents having agreed to assume the truth of the case that repayment of the fa would only be from the proceeds of rental from the mall and sale of units in the project. second, the tribunal had failed to assume the existence of the collateral contract despite the tribunal being bound to assume the existence of the collateral contract. third, the tribunal should not have decided that the arbitration claimants’ case on the collateral contract was manifestly without legal merit when the existence of the collateral contract was in dispute. fourth, the tribunal should not have decided that the doctrine of frustration did not apply when the applicability of that doctrine involved a legal controversy. decision6 there was nothing to suggest that the tribunal proceeded on the basis that it would be assumed that the collateral contract existed or that the arbitration respondents acknowledged that the hearing would proceed on this basis. there was also nothing to suggest that the arbitration respondents agreed to assume the truth of the case that repayment of the fa would only be from the proceeds of rental and sale. the tribunal only assumed that the pleaded facts relied on by the arbitration claimants to prove their case on the alleged express term, condition, implied term, common assumption and/or collateral contract were true. the statements by the tribunal and counsel for the arbitration respondents had to be looked at in its proper context. counsel for the arbitration claimants also acknowledged the distinction between the collateral contract and the facts that establish the existence of the agreement: at [30] to [42].7 the tribunal was not bound to assume the existence of the collateral contract; it only had to assume the existence of the facts alleged in support of the contention that the collateral contract existed. in any event, even if the tribunal was bound to assume that the collateral contract existed, it would be an error of law which was not a ground to set aside the partial award: at [44] and [48]. 8 the applicants’ case that the tribunal’s finding that there was no factual substratum for the collateral contract was in breach of natural justice or in excess of its jurisdiction, was predicated on the submissions that the tribunal proceeded on the basis that it would be assumed that the collateral contract existed, and the arbitration respondents acknowledged that the hearing would proceed on this basis; and/or the tribunal was bound to assume that the collateral contract existed. as both of these submissions were rejected, the applicants’ case failed on this ground:  at [56] and [57]. 9 the arbitration claimants were not deprived of their right to present their case because of the tribunal’s summary dismissal of their claim. they were permitted to amend their statement of claim to include the pleading on the collateral contract without a formal application to amend, and they had every opportunity to argue their case based on the alleged collateral contract: at [58] and [59].  10 the tribunal did not act in excess of jurisdiction by not assuming the existence of the collateral contract and granting an early dismissal despite the existence of the collateral contract being a disputed fact. the tribunal was not bound to assume the existence of the collateral contract and could dismiss the collateral contract claim because the claim was legally unsustainable: at [60] and [61].11 the applicants’ submission was essentially that they disagreed with the tribunal’s application of the “manifestly without legal merit” test to the facts of the case. this was not a ground for challenging the partial award: at [62]. 12 the fact that there were conflicting authorities on whether the fa could be discharged by frustration in light of the covid-19 pandemic did not mean that the tribunal could not decide (at the stage of the aed) that the arbitration claimants’ case on frustration was manifestly without legal merit. in any event, this would have been an error of law, which was not a ground for setting aside the partial award: at [65]. 13 not granting the arbitration claimants the opportunity to make their submissions with reference to evidence and/or witness testimony taken at a full hearing did not give rise to a breach of natural justice because the tribunal had proceeded on the basis that the underlying pleaded facts by the arbitration claimants were true, and there was no reason for further evidence at a full hearing: at [47] and [66]. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.