supreme court of singapore5 september 2022case summarylaw society of singapore v chia chwee imm helen mrs helen thomas [2022] sghc 214court of three judges – originating summons no 1163 of 2020 (summons no 5437 of 2021)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of three judges (delivered by justice of the court of appeal andrew phang boon leong):outcome: c3j orders that the solicitor be struck off for practising without a valid practicing certificate (“pc”) and misrepresenting to the client about her lack of a pc, as well as for having entered into a prohibited borrowing transaction with the client. pertinent and significant point of the judgment:•  rule 23 of the legal profession (professional conduct) rules 2015 applied to the solicitor even though she had no valid pc in force at the material time. this was based on the plain text and the rationale of r 23. •  the definition of a “legal practitioner” does not require one to hold a pc. it was wholly consistent with the rationale of r 23, which was to protect clients who would be in a vulnerable position vis-à-vis their solicitors, that r 23 should apply to a legal practitioner who did not have a valid pc and yet acted as a de facto solicitor for the client.background to the appeal1 this was the law society of singapore’s application for the respondent, ms chia chwee imm helen mrs helen thomas, to be sanctioned under s 82a(12) of the legal profession act (cap 161, 2009 rev ed) (the “lpa”), and to pay for the costs incidental to the action, including the costs of the proceedings before the disciplinary tribunal (“dt”).2 the respondent was admitted to the roll of advocates and solicitors of the supreme court of singapore on 11 august 1999. between 17 december 2016 and 30 may 2018, the respondent did not have a practicing certificate, as she was an undischarged bankrupt during this period. the bankruptcy order was made against the respondent on 15 december 2016, and was annulled on 22 may 2018.3 the complainant contacted the respondent on 18 december 2016, seeking an appointment with the respondent, for the respondent to advise on a care and custody matter for the complainant’s son. after a first consultation the following day, they did not communicate again until 24 august 2017, when the complainant contacted the respondent again regarding the same custody issue. the complainant then formally engaged the respondent to act for her. the respondent gave her advice and also assisted with the preparation of court documents, drafted e-mails and letters to the opposing party. 4 on 18 december 2017, the respondent informed the complainant for the first time that the respondent was an undischarged bankrupt (“the disclosure”). on the same day, the respondent also borrowed $40,000 from the complainant for the purpose of annulling the bankruptcy order. separately, the respondent also approached the complainant’s mother to borrow $20,000.  5 after the disclosure, the respondent continued to act for the complainant. she told the complainant in a whatsapp message dated 10 january 2018 that she had had her annulment “sorted”. but she did not get her bankruptcy order annulled until 22 may 2018. she also sent out various whatsapp messages to reassure the complainant that the respondent was attending to her matter personally, representing her in court, even though it was another solicitor who was representing the complainant in court.6 in law society of singapore v chia chwee imm helen mrs helen thomas [2021] 5 slr 838, the court granted leave for a dt to be appointed. before the dt, the respondent faced two charges: the first charge was in relation to her acting without a pc and representing to the complainant that she was duly authorised to act for the complainant (“the first charge”), and the second charge was in relation to the prohibited borrowing transactions the respondent had procured (“the second charge”). the respondent admitted to the two charges save for one element of the first charge, which was whether she had represented to the complainant that she was duly authorised to act after she had made the disclosure (“the post-disclosure period”). this was the sole disputed issue before the dt. the dt found that both charges had been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, such that there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action under s 82a(3)(a) of the lpa. 7 the law society then applied for the respondent to be sanctioned under s 82a(12) of the lpa. it argued that due cause for disciplinary action had been made out, and that the appropriate sanction was for her to be struck off the roll.the decision of the court 8 the question before the court was whether due cause had been shown that the respondent was guilty of such misconduct unbefitting an advocate and solicitor as an officer of the supreme court. though the dt had made its findings, the court of three judges must be independently satisfied that the respondent’s conduct was serious enough to warrant sanction pursuant to s 82a(12) of the lpa: at [35], [36].   9 the first charge was proven beyond a reasonable doubt. it was undisputed that the respondent was practising without a valid pc between 17 december 2016 and 30 may 2018. the respondent’s claim that the complainant was aware of her lack of a pc after the disclosure was plainly contradicted by the evidence. the messages adduced before the dt showed that the respondent continued to misrepresent her status to the complainant as a duly authorised legal practitioner, even after she had made the disclosure: at [38]. 10 the second charge was also proved beyond a reasonable doubt. it was undisputed that the respondent had procured two loans from the complainant and the complainant’s mother, whilst acting for the complainant as an advocate and solicitor. it was also undisputed that she did not ask the complainant and the complainant’s mother to seek independent legal advice: at [41].11 although the respondent had no valid pc at the material time, rule 23 of the legal profession (professional conduct) rules 2015 (“lppcr”) applied to her. the definition of a “legal practitioner” for the purpose part 2 of the lppcr, under which r 23 is located, did not require one to hold a valid pc. further, the rationale of r 23 was to protect clients who would be in a vulnerable position vis-à-vis their solicitors, as the latter would enjoy a position of influence over the clients and should act with utmost good faith. it was therefore wholly consistent with the purpose of r 23 that it should apply to a legal practitioner who did not have a valid pc and yet acted as a de facto solicitor for the client: at [43]–[45].12 as for the appropriate sanction, the court would impose severe punishments on dishonest conduct in view of the need to protect public interest in the administration of justice, and public trust in the integrity of the legal profession. misconduct involving dishonesty would invariably warrant an order for striking off where the dishonesty revealed a character defect rendering the errant solicitor unsuitable for the profession: at [46], [48].13 striking off was warranted in this case in light of the aggravating factors. the respondent acted without a valid pc for a prolonged period of time. there was a clear element of dishonesty because the respondent had misled the complainant into thinking that she had the requisite authority to represent the complainant in court, even after she had made the disclosure. the dishonesty in this case violated the trust and confidence the complainant had reposed in the respondent, revealing a character defect rather than a mere lapse of judgment: at [50], [51].14 further, it was also in the context of a de facto solicitor-client relationship that the respondent procured the loans from the complainant and the complainant’s mother. this was further aggravated by the dt’s finding that there was an element of undue influence. the loans were procured at a time when the complainant had pending custody proceedings, and felt “trapped” and worried that she would be without a lawyer: at [52].15 there was no weighty mitigating factor in this case. the respondent’s reliance on her mental health issues as a mitigating factor was unsupported by evidence. moreover, the paramount consideration here was the public interests involved. difficult circumstances and dire financial straits could not be an excuse for wrongful conduct: at [53], [54].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.