supreme court of singapore26 august 2022case summarysic/s 3/2020 larpin, christian alfred and another v kaikhushru shiavax nargolwala and another [2022] sghc(i) 12--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by roger giles ij):outcome: the sicc awarded costs of s$392,340.78 inclusive of gst and disbursements to the defendants, to be paid by the plaintiffs.background and facts1 the judgment on the substantive issues, larpin, christian alfred and another v kaikhushru shiavax nargolwala and another [2022] sghc(i) 4 (the “main judgment”), was given on 21 february 2022. in the main judgment, the court dismissed the proceedings and ordered that the plaintiffs pay the defendants’ costs. 2 in a further judgment given on 25 april 2022, larpin, christian alfred and another v kaikhushru shiavax nargolwala and another [2022] sghc(i) 7, the court dismissed the defendants’ application for an order that the costs be on the indemnity basis from a particular date (“indemnity costs application”), and ordered that the defendants pay the plaintiffs’ costs of the application.3 the parties agreed on the amount for disbursements inclusive of any gst applicable (s$15,840.78) and the amount for a pre-trial application to adduce evidence by video link (s$2,500) to be paid by the plaintiffs to the defendants. however, they were unable to agree on the amounts for profit costs for the substantive proceedings, for the indemnity costs application, and for the present costs determination.the court’s judgment 4 this was a transfer case. at the time of transfer, it was ordered that o 110 r 46 of the rules of court (2014 rev ed) (“the rules”) “is to apply to the assessment of costs in respect of proceedings in and arising from [the high court proceedings] after its transfer…”.  strictly, pre-transfer costs for the substantive proceedings should be determined as costs under o 59 r 27 of the rules, including with reference to appendix g of the supreme court practice directions (“appendix g”), and post-transfer costs should be determined as costs under o 110 r 46. however, parties sensibly agreed that the work done prior to transfer was unlikely to be significant, and that costs should be determined wholly under the sicc regime of o 110 r 46 and that the regime should be applied without particular regard to appendix g (at [3] and [4]).5 under o 110 r 46(1), the unsuccessful party is to pay the “reasonable costs” of the successful party, unless the court orders otherwise. the rule does not elaborate on what are reasonable costs, but paragraph 152(3) of the sicc practice directions state that reasonable costs are in the discretion of the court and lists, non-exhaustively, circumstances which the court may consider. as well as the conduct of the parties, the circumstances include the amount or value of any claim involved; the complexity or difficulty of the subject-matter involved; the skill, expertise and specialised knowledge involved; the novelty of any questions raised; and the time and effort expended in the application or proceedings (at [5]).6 as long as the costs were reasonably incurred, a successful party in the sicc should be compensated for those costs. ordinarily, the successful party should seek to show the costs actually incurred, with any recognised attenuation, the claimed costs then subject to consideration of their reasonableness. the court should be provided with a sufficient breakdown of the costs so that the paying party can make appropriate comments on the reasonableness of those costs and understand the work carried out for those costs (at [8] to [10]).7 it was far from ideal that the defendants did not provide any details or useful substantiation of the claimed costs regarding the substantive proceedings. however, it does not follow that they must be denied in the claimed amount in favour of a “rough justice” amount (at [16]).8 as regards the costs for the substantive proceedings, the court held that the incurred costs of s$374,500 claimed by the defendants was reasonable. the defendants had support for the reasonableness of the claimed amount, particularly in the plaintiffs’ own estimate of their costs in a considerably larger amount. perhaps in the light of that estimate, the plaintiffs really did not contest reasonableness of the claimed costs per se. the proceedings were of some factual complexity, requiring careful and detailed attention to what had occurred. there was some legal complexity in relation to misrepresentation by active concealment. the court also accepted the particular importance to the defendants of defending the claims of fraud and dishonesty (at [18]). 9 as regards the costs for the indemnity costs application, the court held that s$4,000 inclusive of disbursements was reasonable costs for the plaintiffs’ work considering that the application was conducted through correspondence (at [19]). 10 as regards the costs for the present determination, the court held that the defendants were entitled to s$3,500 inclusive of disbursements (at [20]).11 doing the arithmetic, the amount payable by the plaintiffs to the defendants was s$392,340.78 inclusive of gst and disbursements (at [21]). this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.