supreme court of singapore25 july 2022case summarycpu and ors v cpx and another matter [2022] sghc(i) 11originating summons no 1 of 2022 and summons no 8 of 2022--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by sir henry bernard eder ij):outcome: singapore international commercial court dismisses application to set aside arbitral award on the basis that the arbitral tribunal (the “tribunal”) breached the rules of natural justice and/or that the tribunal had no jurisdiction (“the “setting aside application”), as well as an application to adduce further evidence in support of the setting aside application. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the tribunal had not breached the rules of natural justice by refusing to admit evidence which the applicants had no leave to adduce, and which was produced on the eve of the hearing of the arbitration: at [60].•  the applicants were possibly precluded from alleging that the tribunal had no jurisdiction, as they had not elaborated on this ground of challenge in the supporting affidavits served with the setting aside application, nor had they raised an objection to the tribunal’s jurisdiction within the time limits provided for under art 16(2) of the model law. in any event, the evidence before the court did not show that the tribunal had acted in excess of its jurisdiction: at [69]–[77].•  the tribunal had not acted in breach of the rules of natural justice by refusing an application for joinder, in circumstances where the party sought to be joined had no claims in the arbitration, and the relevant arbitral rules provided that a party may be joined as “a claimant or a respondent”: at [90]–[91].•  the tribunal had not breached the rules of natural justice by failing to invite submissions on the law applicable to a specific issue before it. procedural fairness does not require a tribunal to expressly invite a party to address a particular point raised by the other party, provided that the party has a fair opportunity to do so if it wishes: at [98].background to the applications1 the third applicant (cpw) and the respondent (cpx) are companies. the first applicant (cpu) is a director of the third applicant, and the father of the second applicant (cpv). 2 the third applicant and the respondent had entered into a series of four agreements in 2012 and 2013, with the aim of facilitating investments by the respondent in the third applicant (collectively, the “preceding transactions”). under the preceding transactions, the third applicant and the respondent agreed to form a joint venture company, known as cpw singapore ltd (“cpw singapore”), with the third applicant and respondent as shareholders. in addition, the respondent agreed to, inter alia, invest in the third applicant a sum of us$10m, and a further us$200m by 31 march 2013. in return, the third applicant agreed to, among others, pay the respondent an assured annual return on its investment for a period of three years. 3 disputes subsequently arose as to whether the third applicant and the respondent had fulfilled their respective obligations under the preceding transactions. on 20 november 2015, the applicants and the respondent signed a settlement agreement, under which the applicants agreed to purchase the respondent’s shares in cpw singapore for us$10m (the “settlement contract”). 4 the settlement contract also provided that upon the transfer of shares in two companies related to the third applicant (“cpw-1” and “cpw-2”) to the respondent’s nominee, abc ltd (“abc”), abc would be liable to pay us$2.5m to the respondent. upon abc making such payment to the respondent, the applicants’ liability to pay us$10m to the respondents under the settlement contract would be reduced by us$2.5m.5 further, on 7 february 2018, the parties entered into a “supplemental settlement contract”, under which the applicants agreed to fulfil their obligations under the settlement contract by 6 march 2018. the settlement contract and the supplemental settlement contract (collectively, the “contracts”) each contained a clause providing for disputes to be resolved by arbitration administered by the singapore international arbitration centre (“siac”) (the “arbitration agreements”). the governing law of the contracts is the law of the republic of india.6 on 3 may 2019, the respondent commenced arbitration proceedings against the applicants pursuant to the arbitration agreements (the “arbitration”). the respondent advanced various claims related to the applicants’ alleged breaches of the contracts. the applicants’ defence was that: (a) the contracts had been entered into under duress and coercion and were therefore void and unenforceable; (b) the contracts were void as the first and second applicants had been of unsound mind at the material time, due to mental illnesses they suffered from; (c) the applicants were not liable under the contracts, as the respondent was in breach of the preceding transactions; and (d) in any event, the applicant was entitled to set off us$2.5m against the sums claimed by the respondent, pursuant to the settlement contract.7 the tribunal issued the final award on 26 july 2021 (the “award”). the tribunal found, among others, that: a. the applicants had not proven that the contracts were entered into under duress and/or coercion, or that the first and second applicants had been of unsound mind at the material time.b. the tribunal had no jurisdiction to examine and adjudicate on any disputes that preceded the settlement contract, including the preceding transactions.c. the applicants had breached their obligations under the contracts and were liable to pay damages to the respondent. the applicants had not proven that they were entitled to set off us$2.5m from the sums claimed by the respondent. 8 the applicants sought in sic/os 1/2022 to set aside the award under s 24(b) of the international arbitration act (cap 143a, 2002 rev ed) and art 34(2)(a)(i) of the uncitral model law on international commercial arbitration (“model law”), on the grounds that:a. the first and second applicants had been under an incapacity at the time the contracts (and the arbitration agreements therein) were entered into, due to the mental conditions they suffered from. the contracts were also invalid under indian law, as they had been entered into under duress and/or coercion. accordingly, the tribunal had no jurisdiction.b. the tribunal had breached the rules of natural justice by refusing to admit two medical reports prepared by one dr p, which detailed the mental illnesses suffered by the first and second applicants (“the medical reports”).c. the tribunal had breached the rules of natural justice by refusing the applicants’ application to join abc as a respondent to the arbitration (the “joinder application”).d. the tribunal had breached the rules of natural justice by failing to call for submissions on the applicable law, when deciding whether it had jurisdiction to adjudicate on disputes arising out of the preceding transactions.9 separately, the applicants sought in sic/sum 8/2022 to adduce a further affidavit from dr p in support of the setting aside application. the applicants claimed that dr p’s affidavit would expound on the mental illnesses suffered by the first and second applicants, and how their judgment and ability to think rationally was significantly impaired at the time the contracts were entered into.the court’s decision10 sir henry bernard eder ij dismissed both sic/os 1/2022 and sic/sum 8/2022.11 the tribunal had not breached the rules of natural justice by refusing to admit the medical reports. the applicants did not have leave from the tribunal to adduce the medical reports, which were produced on the eve of the hearing for the arbitration. accordingly, the tribunal’s decision could not be said to fall outside the range of what a reasonable and fair-minded tribunal in those circumstances might have done. neither had the applicants provided any intimation to the tribunal that they considered the decision to exclude the medical reports to be a breach of natural justice: at [60]–[61].12 in any event, the contents of the medical reports did not show that the first and second applicants had been suffering from some incapacity at the material time. the applicants had suffered no relevant prejudice by the tribunal’s decision to exclude the medical reports: at [62].13 the applicants were possibly precluded from alleging that the arbitration agreements were invalid, as the applicants had not elaborated on this ground of challenge in the supporting affidavits served with the setting aside application. the applicants were also arguably precluded from relying on this ground of challenge, as they had failed to raise an objection to the tribunal’s jurisdiction during the arbitration, within the time limits provided for under art 16(2) of the model law: at [69]–[76].14 in any case, the tribunal had not acted in excess of its jurisdiction. the evidence before the court did not show that the first and second applicants were under duress and/or coercion, or suffering from some incapacity, at the time the contracts (and the arbitration agreements therein) were entered into: at [77].15 the application in sic/sum 8/2022 for leave to adduce an affidavit from dr p had come too late in the day, nor had the applicants provided a draft of what the proposed affidavit would say. the application was therefore dismissed: at [80]–[83].16 the tribunal had not breached the rules of natural justice by refusing the joinder application. it was not in dispute that abc had no claims in the arbitration, and that no claims had been made against it. given that the relevant siac arbitration rules provide that a party may be joined to an arbitration as “a claimant or a respondent”, the tribunal’s decision to refuse the joinder application was unobjectionable. the applicants had also not proven how they had been deprived of a reasonable opportunity to present their case: at [90]–[91].17 the tribunal had not breached the rules of natural justice by failing to call for submissions on the applicable law, when deciding whether it had jurisdiction to adjudicate disputes arising out of the preceding transactions. procedural fairness does not require a tribunal to expressly invite a party to address a particular point raised by the other party, provided that the party has a fair opportunity to do so if it wishes. in the present case, the respondent had made submissions on the applicable law and the applicants had several opportunities to respond, but they chose not to: at [98].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.