supreme court of singapore18 july 2022case summarycef and another v ceh [2022] sgca 54court of appeal – civil appeal no 153 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice of the court of appeal judith prakash):outcome: court of appeal orders that an arbitral award be partially set aside on the ground of breach of natural justice.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  there was a breach of natural justice in one of the tribunal’s orders (the “damages order”). the tribunal’s chain of reasoning in respect of the damages order was not one which the parties had reasonable notice that the tribunal could adopt, nor did it have a sufficient nexus to the parties’ arguments. the tribunal’s reliance on a proposition in a case cited by the respondent had no connection to the issue before the tribunal of what the appropriate award for the respondent’s alleged reliance loss should be: at [116], [119].background and material facts1 the first appellant is incorporated in narnia, while the second appellant and the respondent are incorporated in ruritania. the first appellant is a multinational company which designs, builds, and sells plants for the iron and steel industry. it is the parent of the second appellant. in 2011, the appellants were contracted to design and build a steel-making plant for the respondent. the respondent manufactures hot-rolled steel coils and carries on business on the premises of its parent, a major steelmaker in ruritania (the “parent”). 2 in june 2011, the first appellant entered into a contract (the “contract”) with the parent. under the contract, the first appellant was to provide engineering equipment and services to design and build a steel-making plant (the “plant”) on a site in ruritania (the “site”) owned by the parent for a contract price of f$92.7m. in september 2011, the parent assigned its rights, title, interest and liabilities under the contract to the respondent. however, the parent continued to retain ownership of the site.3 in march 2014, the first appellant supplied the respondent with additional equipment worth f$49,000 and additional services worth approximately f$31,000. this equipment was subsequently used in or incorporated into the plant. the appellants received no compensation from the respondent for providing these additional services and equipment. about two months later, in may 2014, the appellants and the respondent entered into a service agreement (“service agreement”) whereunder the first appellant assigned to the second appellant, the first appellant’s obligation under the contract to provide supervision and training services to the respondent.4 there were delays in the construction of the plant and the completed plant never achieved its production target. each party subsequently commenced an arbitration against the other, and the arbitrations were consolidated into the arbitration by consent in october 2016. the claimant and respondent in the arbitration were the appellants and the respondent, respectively. the arbitration was commenced under contractual terms providing that disputes were to be arbitrated in singapore under the rules of arbitration of the international chamber of commerce (“icc rules”). 5 on 28 november 2019, the three-member tribunal issued the award. the majority of the tribunal found that the respondent had been induced to enter into the contract by the appellants’ misrepresentations, and that the respondent was therefore entitled to rescission of both the contract and the service agreement. the tribunal made various orders including the following: (a) the appellants were to pay the respondent the contract price of f$92.7m, less f$15m (to account for two loans which the first appellant had previously extended to the respondent) and f$54.5m (to account for the respondent’s use of the plant after it had been completed and the diminution in value of the plant) (the “repayment order”); (b) the respondent was to “transfer the title to the plant, including the additional equipment installed” to the appellants in return for payment under the repayment order (the “transfer order”); and (c) the appellants were to pay the respondent sums denominated in ruritanian currency totalling r$176,245,250 as damages under the misrepresentation act (cap 390, 1994 rev ed) (the “misrepresentation act”) to compensate the respondent for five heads of loss and/or expenses which it would not have incurred but for the first appellant’s misrepresentations (the “damages order”). the tribunal only permitted the respondent to recover 25% of the damages it had sought under each of the five heads as it found the respondent’s evidence of the quantum of the loss it had suffered under each head to be deficient.6 on 25 february 2020, the appellants applied to the high court to set aside the award. the high court judge (the “judge”) declined to set aside the transfer order, the repayment order or the damages order. the appellants then appealed to the court of appeal. subsequently, following an application both the respondent and the appellants were permitted to adduce further evidence in the appeal.the court’s decisionwhether the transfer order should be set asidewhether the transfer order was uncertain, ambiguous, impossible and/or unenforceable(1) unenforceability7 the court did not accept the appellants’ arguments that the transfer order was unenforceable and therefore in breach of the parties’ arbitration agreement. first, it did not make sense to suggest that an arbitral award could be set aside on the basis that it was “unenforceable”. section 31(2)(f) of the iaa and art 36(1)(a)(v) of the model law provided that an award could be refused enforcement if it had been set aside. thus, an arbitral award became unenforceable because it was set aside – an arbitral award was not set aside because it was unenforceable: at [35].8 second, there was no legal basis for the appellants’ claim to set aside the transfer order on the basis that it was unenforceable. while art 41 of the icc rules stated that the arbitral tribunal “shall make every effort to make sure that the award is enforceable at law”, this suggested that a tribunal’s primary duty under art 41 was to ensure that the procedural requirements for enforcement were satisfied. in so far as the substantive (eg, public policy) requirements for enforcement were concerned, the tribunal would be found to have discharged its duty under art 41 as long as it demonstrated that it had used “every effort” to ensure the enforceability of the award in the jurisdictions wherein the award could reasonably be expected to be enforced: at [36], [38] to [39].9 the appellants next contended that it was an “implied term in every arbitration agreement that the resulting award shall be in a form which is capable of being enforced in the same manner as a judgment”, based on the uk case of margulies brothers ltd v dafnis thomaides & co (uk) ltd [1958] 1 wlr 398 (“margulies”). however, margulies did not support the appellants’ case. the only ratio which could be extracted from margulies was that an award for the payment of money had to be in a form which was capable of being enforced in the same manner as a judgment. second, margulies involved an application for an award to be remitted based on common law principles. it was not an application for the award to be set aside under the model law as in the present case: at [41] to [42].(2) uncertainty/ambiguity10 the appellants argued that the tribunal had a duty to render an award that was certain, unambiguous, precise and possible and that the transfer order was uncertain, ambiguous and capable of multiple interpretations. however, uncertainty or ambiguity was not a basis to set aside an award under art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law: at [43] to [44].11 the appellants next submitted that the transfer order was capable of multiple interpretations as it was unclear. this ambiguity rendered the award defective and liable to be set aside. the court did not accept these submissions. first, the court did not understand the appellants’ reliance on arts 34(2)(a)(ii) to (iv) of the model law. second, the transfer order was not uncertain or ambiguous. the transfer order was clear that the respondent was obliged to transfer the title to the plant to the appellants. the appellants’ argument on this point was really about impossibility or unworkability: at [45] to [48].(3) impossibility/unworkability12 the appellants submitted that the transfer order was “unenforceable as worded” because there was no separate title to the plant that could be transferred, and enforcement depended on a certain position being taken and maintained by the parent, a non-party to the arbitration. however, the appellants did not cite any authority for their argument that impossibility or unworkability was a basis to justify setting aside an award, much less under art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law. in any event, the transfer order was not impossible or unworkable. the parent could and did consent to the removal of the plant from the site and was prepared to transfer title to the components resulting from the plant’s disassembly to the appellants and allow the appellants to take possession of those components. if the parent later changed its mind and the respondent was unable to comply with its obligation to transfer the plant and additional equipment to the appellants, the respondent would be in breach of the award: at [50] to [53].13 the appellants also did not adduce any evidence in support of their contention that it was impossible to disassemble the plant without destroying or rendering it or its components worthless. the appellants had not previously suggested, either before the award was made or thereafter, that it would be unworkable to disassemble and retake possession of the plant’s components or that disassembly would render the plant worthless. some of the further evidence adduced by both parties  also supported the judge’s conclusion that the appellants’ argument about the impossibility and unworkability of the transfer order was an afterthought and a contrivance, as the further evidence showed that the appellants had contemplated the possibility of disassembling and removing the plant from the site: at [54].14 lastly, the appellants submitted that the transfer order did not specify who was to pay to disassemble the plant. they submitted that the transfer order could not encompass such an order because such costs would constitute damages that the respondent did not claim in the arbitration, and in so far as it did encompass such an order, the transfer order would contain a decision beyond the scope of submission to arbitration. the court agreed with the judge that the appellants ought to have raised this issue with the tribunal under art 33(1)(b) or art 33(3) of the model law and asked the tribunal to make an additional award to cover these points: at [56].(4) the two preliminary points raised by the judge15 the judge raised two preliminary points on the applicability of art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law, both of which the appellants contested. first, the appellants submitted that the judge erred in holding that the challenge to the transfer order failed because art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law only concerned challenges to the “arbitral procedure” which the tribunal adopted and not the “substance” of the award. according to the appellants, the transfer order violated the parties’ agreement that the award be certain, unambiguous, possible and enforceable, and the ambit of art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law clearly extended to requirements on what the judge termed as the “substance” of the award or its contents. the court rejected this submission. the appellants had not shown that the transfer order violated the parties’ agreement as to the arbitral procedure for the award, which was what constituted a ground for setting aside under art 34(2)(a)(iv) of the model law. the us and uk cases relied on by the appellants did not address the question of how ambiguity, unenforceability, etc could constitute a basis for setting aside the transfer order under the model law: at [58] to [59].16 second, the appellants also submitted that the judge erred in holding that the challenge to the transfer order must fail because the appellants had failed to raise the ground for the challenge in the arbitration. the court agreed with the judge, however, that the appellants had waived their right to rely on this ground of complaint. an order for the respondent to make counter-restitution in specie by transferring title to the plant back to the appellants was a live issue throughout the arbitration – if the appellants believed that an order for the respondent to transfer title to the plant to the appellants was contrary to the agreed arbitral procedure or would be unenforceable, they should have raised this point to the tribunal: at [60] to [61].whether the transfer order contained decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission to the arbitration17 the appellants also sought to challenge the transfer order under art 34(2)(a)(iii) of the model law, on the basis that it contained decisions on matters beyond the scope of submission to the arbitration. in particular, the appellants said the issue of counter-restitution in specie and a transfer of title to the plant had not been raised in the terms of reference or in the parties’ pleadings: at [63].18 it was correct that the tribunal did not expressly include counter-restitution of the plant in specie as one of the issues in the terms of reference nor exercise its power under art 23(4) of the icc rules to authorise either party to seek an order for counter-restitution of the plant in specie. this did not mean, however, that the transfer order was outside the scope of the parties’ submission to arbitration. first, art 23(1)(c) of the icc rules only required the terms of reference to include “a summary of the parties’ respective claims and of the relief sought by each party” [emphasis added]. thus, just because a particular head of relief did not appear in the terms of reference did not mean it was outside the scope of submission to arbitration: at [65] to [66].19 second, the  tribunal’s omission to inform the parties that it intended to order a transfer of title to the plant was not in breach of art 23(4) of the icc rules. counter-restitution of the plant in specie was not a “new claim” outside the terms of reference. it was the natural legal consequence of the respondent’s counterclaim for rescission: at [67] to [68].20 the appellants also submitted that the judge erred in finding that they had waived their right to rely on art 34(2)(a)(iii) of the model law to challenge the transfer order because they could have raised the argument during the arbitration that counter-restitution in specie was outside the scope of the submission to arbitration. however, the court agreed with the judge’s reasoning on this point: at [70].whether the transfer order was obtained in breach of natural justice and/or without giving the appellants an opportunity to present their case21 the appellants argued that they were unable to present their case on the transfer order as the respondent had only sought pecuniary rescission. transfer of title to the plant was not a live issue in the arbitration and the transfer order should therefore be set aside under art 34(2)(a)(ii) of the model law and/or s 24(b) of the iaa as there was a breach of the fair hearing rule. in the court’s view, however, the transfer of title to the plant was indeed a live issue: at [71].22 the court had already addressed the point about pecuniary rescission in the terms of reference: at [73].23 second, the appellants submitted that, properly construed, the respondent’s reference to a “transfer” in certain paragraphs of its defence and counterclaim was only as a legal defence to the appellants’ claim for certain specific costs incurred in the project in relation to certain specific parts of the plant, with the respondent arguing that it was not liable to pay these costs because these parts of the plant would revert to the appellants in the event of counter-restitution, whether in specie or via a monetary order. however, given the repeated references in those paragraphs to the respondent’s position that the “contract should be set aside” and that “title” to various components should “revert to [the appellants]”, it was apparent that counter-restitution in specie upon rescission was a live issue in the arbitration: at [74], [76].24 third, the appellants submitted that the judge erred in finding that paragraph 424(b) of the respondent’s defence and counterclaim did not amount to a prayer for pecuniary rescission. however, the court agreed with the judge that it was inaccurate to characterise paragraph 424(b) as a prayer for “pecuniary rescission” which would “take into account the value [the respondent] had received and the value [the respondent] had transferred”. what the respondent was saying in paragraph 424(b) was that it wanted the appellants to pay back the contract price to the respondent in full, while the respondent did not need to pay the appellants anything. the respondent was entitled to take such a position. second, the appellants’ argument on appeal avoided the second aspect of the judge’s reasoning. the judge had said that there was a tactical burden on the appellants to take a position on counter-restitution as a natural consequence of rescission. instead, the appellants adopted an “all or nothing” defence to rescission, offering no alternative position in the event that the tribunal found that rescission was an available relief: at [77], [79] to [81].25 fourth, the appellants submitted that paragraph 201 of the respondent’s opening submissions must be read in its proper context – this statement did not have any reference to the possible transfer of title in the plant. the court did not accept this argument. on the contrary, it was clear from that paragraph that the respondent regarded a transfer of title to the plant to be a necessary consequence of rescission: at [82].26 fifth, the appellants submitted that the tribunal did not include the issue of whether title to the plant could or should be transferred from the respondent to the appellants in its list of issues, indicating the reality that a transfer of title to the plant was not a live issue in the arbitration. however, issue 2 concerned the issue of rescission, and restitution/counter-restitution in specie were the natural legal consequences of rescission. the appellants had also not addressed the judge’s observation that a list of issues was not intended to set out every possible issue in the arbitration or to prevail over the scope of the parties’ arbitration agreement, the notice of arbitration, the terms of reference or the pleadings: at [83], [85].27 sixth, the appellants submitted that the statements in oral closing submissions referred to by the judge had to be read in their proper context – those statements were not made in the context of whether the tribunal should order counter-restitution in specie in the event that rescission was available. the court agreed with the judge, however, that the statements of the appellants’ counsel showed that they accepted that counter-restitution in specie was available in principle as a relief – just that, according to the appellants, this was no longer possible in the circumstances. further, the statements of the respondent’s counsel made it clear that the tribunal’s decision to rescind the contract would oblige the respondent to return the plant to the appellants, and would oblige the appellants to accept the return of the plant: at [86] to [87].28 lastly, the appellants submitted that paragraph 67 of their reply post-hearing submissions was incorrectly interpreted by the judge – the appellants submitted that they had simply made the point that the diminution in value of the plant should be counted against the respondent in a monetary order awarded to the respondent, due to the respondent’s culpability in choosing to let the plant lie idle. the court rejected this submission. if the appellants contemplated that they would in fact get back the plant as a consequence of the award, then the appellants would receive the current value of the plant (which the appellants said had diminished in value due to the fault of the respondent), and the respondent would have to compensate the appellants for the diminution in the value of the plant in order to put both parties back in their pre-contractual positions, which should be set off against the amount the appellants had to pay to the respondent. this was exactly what the appellants asked for in paragraph 67(ii) of their reply post-hearing submissions. this showed that the appellants knew counter-restitution of the plant in specie remained a live issue at the close of submissions in the arbitration: at [88], [90] to [91].whether the repayment order should be set aside 29 the appellants submitted that the repayment order should be set aside as it was issued in breach of the fair hearing rule – the appellants were unable to present their case on the burden of proof and the condition/value of the plant. however, the court held that the judge did not err in finding that the diminution in the value of the plant was a live issue in the arbitration from the very outset. this was based on the respondent’s statement of defence and counterclaim, where it pleaded that rescission was not barred on the ground that the plant had been used because it could be accompanied by a monetary award of sufficient value to restore the appellants to the status quo ante, and the appellants’ reply and defence to the counterclaim where the appellants had pleaded that the respondent was not entitled to rescind the contract as, inter alia, the respondent had used and benefited from the plant: at [97] to [98].30 the pleadings showed that the issues of whether the plant had diminished in value since 2016 and the quantum of the diminution in the value of the plant were live in the arbitration. further, the tribunal had held that the appellants bore the burden of proving the quantum of the diminution in value of the plant. having failed to adduce any evidence in this respect, the appellants could not now argue that they had been denied a fair hearing. in fact, any error in this regard was to the appellants’ advantage: at [99] to [100].31 next, the appellants argued that this court should consider adopting the “no evidence” rule”. the court rejected this submission as the “no evidence rule” would run contrary to the policy of minimal curial intervention in arbitral proceedings and would not add anything to the existing grounds for setting aside an award: at [101] to [102].32 second, even if the “no evidence rule” were to be applied in the present case, it could not apply to a situation where the tribunal had no evidence before it on a material issue of fact because the party who bore the burden of proof on that issue had failed to adduce any such evidence: at [104].33 third, the appellants had not addressed the judge’s finding that the burden was on the appellants to deploy the appropriate procedural machinery at the appropriate procedural stage of the arbitration to secure the necessary evidence to discharge their burden of proof, or the judge’s finding that they failed to state a case on the diminution in the value of the plant at any point during the arbitration: at [105].whether the damages order should be set aside34 the appellants submitted that the damages order was issued in breach of natural justice and/or that the appellants were unable to present their case. the tribunal had found the respondent’s evidence in support of its five heads of reliance loss to be deficient. despite this, it inexplicably proceeded to adopt a “flexible approach” and to award the respondent 25% of each head of reliance loss, without first telling the parties it would be doing so or giving them the opportunity to address the tribunal on the same: at [110].35  the tribunal explained that it was applying a “flexible approach” to proof of damage, citing robertson quay investment pte ltd v steen consultants pte ltd and another [2008] 2 slr(r) 623 (“robertson quay”) at [28]–[30]: at [114] to [115].36 the court held that the tribunal’s chain of reasoning in respect of the damages order was not one which the parties had reasonable notice that the tribunal could adopt, nor did it have a sufficient nexus to the parties’ arguments. first, both parties would have expected that the tribunal would only award the respondent loss that the respondent could prove. a reasonable litigant in the appellants’ shoes could not have foreseen the possibility of reasoning of the type revealed in the award – ie, that the tribunal, having noted all the deficiencies in the respondent’s evidence, would then go on to adopt a figure of 25% of the amount claimed as being the loss incurred. instead, the parties would have expected the tribunal to dismiss the claim for reliance loss in its entirety: at [116] to [117].37 second, the tribunal’s chain of reasoning did not have a sufficient nexus to the parties’ arguments. the tribunal justified its reasoning with reference to the “flexible approach” in robertson quay. however, robertson quay did not stand for the proposition that, if the tribunal was not satisfied as to the state of the respondent’s evidence concerning proof of its loss, the tribunal could then rely on the “flexible approach” to justify awarding a certain percentage of the respondent’s total claim.. even the respondent acknowledged that, on the ‘”flexible approach”, the tribunal had to first be satisfied that the respondent’s evidence was “more likely to be true than not” in order to award any damages to the respondent. the tribunal’s reliance on the “flexible approach” in robertson quay had no connection to the issue before the tribunal of what the appropriate award for the respondent’s alleged reliance loss should be: at [118] to [119].38 third, this breach of natural justice was connected to the making of the award as the tribunal awarded the respondent 25% of its claimed reliance loss based on the “flexible approach”. in the court’s view, this breach of natural justice prejudiced the appellants’ rights, and compliance with the rules of natural justice could reasonably have made a difference to the outcome of the arbitration. the court thus allowed the appeal in relation to the damages order on the basis that there had been a breach of the fair hearing rule: at [121], [125].39 the respondent submitted that, in the event the court was troubled by the challenge mounted against the damages order, the court should remit the matter to the tribunal to reconsider the assessment instead of setting aside the damages order. the court concluded that this was not a proper case for remittal. a reasonable person would not have the necessary confidence that the tribunal would be able to reconsider the issue remitted in a fair and balanced manner. further, it would be pointless to send the claim back to the tribunal to repeat an exercise which, logically, should result in the same conclusion of lack of evidence: at [122] to [124].whether the tribunal had breached its duty to provide sufficient reasons on material issues in the award40 lastly, the appellants submitted that the award did not contain sufficient reasons for the tribunal’s decision on key issues, and the award should therefore be set aside. specifically, in respect of the transfer order, the award did not inform the parties of whether the tribunal decided that the transfer order was a “legally and factually possible/enforceable remedy”, or the basis on which it made that decision. in respect of the repayment order, the award did not inform the parties of the precise proportion of r$270m which the tribunal awarded for the diminution in value of the plant or the basis upon which it decided that the diminution in value amounted to a proportion of r$270m. in respect of the damages order, the tribunal did not inform parties of the basis or evidential route by which it decided to award 25% of the losses/expenses incurred by the respondent: at [126].41 the court had already dealt with the damages order. as for the transfer order and the repayment order, the court agreed with the judge that, taken as a whole, the award did provide sufficient reasons to inform the parties of the bases on which the tribunal had reached its decision on the essential issues. the tribunal had explained in detail why, in its view, rescission was not barred. as for the appellants’ argument concerning the diminution in value of the plant, the tribunal took a broad-brush approach to assessing the diminution in value of the plant, but this was not a result of any breach of the iaa or the model law. in fact, this was to the appellants’ advantage: at [128].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.