supreme court of singapore5 july 2022case summarychong hoon cheong v public prosecutor [2022] sgca 50criminal appeal no 28 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: coa dismisses appeal against conviction for drug trafficking and upholds mandatory death sentence. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the prosecution should seriously consider whether it even needs to run an alternative case when it is able to rely on the presumption and, if so, how such alternative case should be mounted.•  a question as to the interpretation of an accused person’s statement usually cannot be answered by reference to the standard of proof. the proper approach to be adopted in interpreting statements made by an accused person consists of two steps. the first is to determine the precise content of the statement that the accused person had made (whether orally or written). the second is to determine the intended meaning of that statement. if there is a reasonable doubt as to the answer in either step, the court should not place any weight on that statement, simply because it cannot be satisfied as to what was in fact said or meant.1 ca/cca 28/2021 was an appeal against conviction and sentence by chong hoon cheong (the “appellant”).background to the appeal and material facts2 on 8 december 2015, the appellant was arrested at room 7 of 26b hamilton road (“room 7”). various packets containing granular/powdery substances were retrieved at room 7, including exhibit a1a (which contained not less than 6.53g of diamorphine) and exhibit d1a2 (which contained 448.7g of brown granular/powdery substances (“heroin”) and not less than 14.08g of diamorphine). in the course of investigations, seven statements in english were recorded from the appellant between 8 and 16 december 2015, including a long statement recorded at 4.16pm on 16 december 2015 (the “fourth long statement”). the appellant, speaking in mandarin at that time, was translated by a translator. in the appellant’s earlier contemporaneous statements on the day of the arrest, including the statement recorded at 9.30pm (the “first contemporaneous statement”), the appellant spoke in hokkien and was translated by the inspector.3 the appellant claimed trial to a capital charge (the “charge”) of having in his possession for the purpose of trafficking 27 packets containing not less than 25.01g of diamorphine (the “drugs”), an offence under s 5(1)(a) read with s 5(2) of the misuse of drugs act (cap 185, 2008 rev ed) (“mda”). under the second schedule to the mda, the mandatory punishment for trafficking more than 15g of diamorphine is death.4 the respondent ran two cases at the trial below. the respondent’s primary case was that the evidence proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the appellant possessed the drugs in exhibit d1a2 for the purpose of trafficking. in support of its primary case, the respondent relied only on the appellant’s statements to submit that he had essentially admitted that exhibit d1a2 was meant for repacking and delivery in his statements. in the alternative, the respondent ran a secondary case that the appellant was presumed to have possessed not less than 25.01g of diamorphine for the purposes of trafficking under s 17(c) of the mda.5 the appellant’s case at the trial below, which he maintained on appeal, was that he had in his possession exhibit d1a2 for the purpose of his personal consumption (the “consumption defence”). the significance of the appellant’s consumption defence, if it is made out, is that only the remaining 10.93g of diamorphine would have been in his possession for the purpose of trafficking – which would be well under the statutory threshold of 15g for the imposition of the mandatory death penalty.6 the high court judge (the “judge”) who tried the matter rejected the respondent’s primary case, disagreeing with the respondent that the appellant’s statements could sustain the weight of his conviction. the judge held that two factors – the possibility of the appellant having experienced drug intoxication when making his first contemporaneous statement together with a reasonable doubt as to the proper interpretation of the fourth long statement – combined to raise a reasonable doubt as to the appellant’s guilt. on that basis, the judge concluded that the appellant had successfully raised a reasonable doubt within the respondent’s primary case. despite that, because of the way the respondent ran its case at trial, the judge was constrained to consider whether the respondent succeeded on its secondary case. the appellant sought to rebut the statutory presumption by relying on his consumption defence, which did not turn on the contents or interpretation of his statements. after a meticulous review of the evidence in respect of the appellant’s allegations, the judge found that the appellant failed to establish his consumption defence. the judge convicted the appellant of the charge and sentenced the appellant to the mandatory death penalty.7 on appeal, the appellant maintained his consumption defence and additionally argued that the judge erred in convicting him despite successfully raising a reasonable doubt in the respondent’s primary case by resolving a reasoned doubt in favour of the respondent on the balance of probabilities.8 while the sole issue on appeal was whether the appellant had established the consumption defence, that issue was addressed in two parts: first, whether the judge erred in finding that the appellant failed to rebut the presumption under s 17(c) of the mda and second, a reconciliation of the tension between the two seemingly contradictory conclusions that arose because of the problematic way in which the respondent ran its primary and secondary cases at the trial below. decision on appeal9 the crux of the case (and appeal) was whether the appellant made out his consumption defence because, in the final analysis, that was the true question – regardless of whether this was viewed from the perspective of rebutting the inference that he had the drugs in his possession for the purposes of trafficking by reason of its very large quantity or by reason of statutory presumption under s 17(c) of the mda. if the appellant was able to prove the consumption defence, then he must be acquitted. at the very least, the appellant must establish his level of consumption at the material time. the entirety of the debate on the interpretation of the first contemporaneous statement and the fourth long statement was therefore a red herring which was neither material nor determinative of the case: at [40]–[42].10 the appellant failed to establish the consumption defence. as to his rate of consumption, the appellant reported a rate of consumption at the material time that implausibly and dramatically increased, almost with each telling. at the time of the trial, in march and november 2020, the appellant alleged a rate of consumption that was approaching five to six times his original claim in december 2015. there was no explanation for such a rapidly inflating account of his rate of consumption, which inevitably meant that it would be viewed with considerable doubt. that significant discrepancy was unaccounted for at the trial below, and remains unaccounted for at the appeal: at [47]–[48].11 the appellant’s rate of consumption of 4g per day as initially claimed could not possibly support the appellant’s consumption defence. exhibit d1a2 contained 448.7g of heroin, which amounted to more than 112 days’ worth of supply at the time of his arrest. it was unbelievable that a person would possess such a large supply merely for his personal consumption. nor could the appellant, who was in considerable financial difficulties, afforded the luxury of stockpiling such a large quantity. the testimony of a witness called upon by the appellant in purported support of the appellant’s rate of consumption was also of little value as it lacked contemporaneity with the appellant’s rate of consumption at the material time of the offence. the appellant’s failure to prove the rate of his consumption was fatal to his case since the rate of consumption was the essential foundation of a consumption defence. on the totality of the evidence, the appellant failed to prove his consumption defence and, consequently, the appellant’s appeal against his conviction and against his sentence failed: at [49], [51]–[52] and [58].12 in finding that the fourth long statement could not sustain the weight of the appellant’s conviction, the judge incorrectly concluded that the ambiguity gave rise to a reasonable doubt as to the accused’s guilt but he was led into error because of the way in which the respondent mounted its case before him. that gave rise to an apparent tension between two differing conclusions that, on the one hand, there was a reasonable doubt as to the appellant’s guilt, yet, on the other hand, the statutory presumption under s 17(c) of the mda was not rebutted. the respondent needlessly complicated the case at the trial below by advancing a case of direct proof of the purpose element of the charge based on the appellant’s statements alone: at [62]–[64].13 the prosecution should seriously consider whether it even needs to run an alternative case when it is able to rely on the presumption. in most cases, whatever evidence the prosecution thought it had could be mounted to counter the accused person’s efforts to rebut the presumption. in the present case, it was unclear why the respondent ran its primary case as it did. the quantity of drugs that was involved in this case would seem to have been an obvious ground for asking the court to infer as a fact that such a large quantity was held by the appellant for the purpose of trafficking. had that been done, the inquiry would have shifted the focus back to the consumption defence. unfortunately, because the respondent erroneously ran its primary case purely on the basis of the appellant’s alleged admissions in his statements, much time was wasted in addressing that irrelevant issue: at [65]–[66].14 a question as to the interpretation of an accused person’s statement usually cannot be answered by reference to the standard of proof. the standard of proof concerns the legal threshold at which the prosecution and defence may be said to have established its respective cases. where the entirety of the case rests on an accused person’s statements, it may be necessary to consider exactly what was said and meant in a statement and this may then have to be determined by applying the relevant standard of proof. however, in the vast majority of cases, as was in the present case, an accused person’s statements will form just one part of the whole evidence before the court. when that is so, the court should first decide on the admissibility of an accused person’s statements and then consider its interpretation and weight together with all the other evidence before it to determine whether the parties have successfully made out their cases on the applicable standards of proof: at [69].15 the proper approach to be adopted in interpreting statements made by an accused person consisted of two steps. the first is to determine the precise content of the statement that the accused person had made (whether orally or written). this would likely be more easily determined where one has the benefit of a written statement, but, there may well be a need to consider whether a written statement, in all of the circumstances including a potential language barrier, properly records what the accused person had said at the material time. the second step is to determine the intended meaning of that statement (that is, the subjective intention of the statement-maker at the time the statement was made). the exercise of interpretation would necessarily be undertaken from an objective perspective but taking into account the accused person’s circumstances, and the words used to convey his intended meaning. if there was a reasonable doubt as to the answer in either step, the court should not place any weight on that statement, simply because it cannot be satisfied as to what was in fact said or meant: at [70].16 there was no reasonable doubt that arose at the first step in the present case. while the appellant alleged that there were some inaccuracies in his long statements due to his lack of proficiency in mandarin, the appellant was sufficiently proficient in mandarin to understand the questions being put to him during the recording of the long statements and to express his responses accurately and completely. however, there was some ambiguity and hence a reasonable doubt, at the second step, as to the meaning of the material parts of the fourth long statement which the respondent sought to rely upon. accordingly, no weight should have been placed on it: at [71]–[73].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.