supreme court of singapore21 june 2022case summaryng lim lee (as administratrix and trustee of the estate of lee ker min, deceased) v lee gin hong (as executor and trustee of the estate of ng ang chum, deceased) and another [2022] sgca 47civil appeal no 142 of 2020 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by steven chong jca):outcome: coa dismisses appeal by the appellant for his equal partner to bear half of the liabilities of their partnership, and affirms the finding for him to account for sums withdrawn in breach of his fiduciary duties.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the court of appeal found that the knowledge of the appellant’s late mother of breaches of fiduciary duties determines the reference point from which she could have commenced an action but elected not to do so. this is crucial in determining the length of the delay for the purposes of the defence of laches.•  the court of appeal also observed that it would be plainly wrong to look just at the length of delay for the purposes of the defence of laches. that delay must render it inequitable or unconscionable for the respondents to mount a belated counterclaim against the appellant. this would typically involve an examination of the prejudice suffered by the appellant as a result of any inordinate delay.1 this appeal concerned an action commenced by the litigation representative of the appellant (and later maintained by his estate after his passing) against the respondents (who were the executors of the estate of their late mother) for half of the liability due and owing under an overdraft facility which was extended to the appellant’s and his late mother’s partnership. the appellant and the respondents are siblings. 2 both the appellant and his late mother were equal partners of a business which was started by the appellant’s late father (“the partnership”). the late mother’s estate brought a counterclaim against the appellant for half of the assets of the partnership.3 the high court judge (“judge”) found that the appellant had breached his fiduciary duties and had overdrawn sums which far exceeded the amount due under the overdraft facility. the judge dismissed the appellant’s claim in light of her finding that the partnership was solvent and the appellant’s withdrawals (which were made without the knowledge and consent of his late mother) exceeded his half share and the sums due under the overdraft facility. consequently, the counterclaim was allowed, and the judge ordered the appellant to account for sums withdrawn by him from the partnership without the consent of his late mother.background to the appeal4 the partnership first commenced business as a sole proprietorship by the appellant’s late father in 1958. the partnership was a retailer of motorcycles, motor scooters, spare parts and accessories. it also operated a workshop. the appellant subsequently joined the business as a partner in 1975. after his father’s death in 1981, the appellant’s late mother was registered as a partner. the respondents started working for the partnership in the 1980s as administration clerks until they resigned in august 2016. they lived with their late mother at no 75 chua chu kang road (“75 cck”) for over 30 years until her passing. the respondents’ late mother bequeathed 75 cck to them in her will.5 the parties disputed the details of how the partnership was managed. according to the respondents, their late mother was illiterate, and the business of the partnership was conducted and managed by the appellant. the appellant also did not share the profits of the partnership and only gave his late mother a monthly allowance of about $1,000. the appellant did not admit that his late mother was illiterate. instead, his position was that she was a savvy businesswoman who was smart and well versed with every aspect of the partnership of which she was a cheque signatory.6 after the appellant’s mother passed away, the appellant, through his litigation representative sued the respondents for half of the liability due and owing under an overdraft facility of $1.5m extended to the partnership by united overseas bank (“the uob overdraft facility”) in 2018. the appellant also claimed for $20,000, which he alleged the respondents had withdrawn from the partnership’s account for the funeral expenses of their late mother. his position was that the partnership was insolvent as of the date of dissolution in december 2014 (“date of dissolution”), when his late mother passed away.7 the respondents counterclaimed against the appellant, alleging that he withdrew moneys from the uob overdraft facility and other bank accounts of the partnership for inter alia, his own real estate purchases and for investments in businesses unrelated to the partnership (“misapplied sum”). they also contended that the appellant was liable to account for private profits he withdrew from the partnership (“private profits”). their position was that the partnership was solvent as at the date of dissolution and their late mother was therefore entitled to half of the assets of the partnership.8 the judge made the following findings:a. the partnership was solvent as at the date of dissolution. the appellant’s expert was not objective, and the evidence of the respondents’ expert was to be preferred. the appellant’s claim was therefore dismissed.b. the appellant did owe fiduciary duties to his late mother, and such duties included not withdrawing the partnership’s moneys for his personal use and not making private profits to the exclusion of his late mother. he had breached those duties by treating the partnership’s moneys as his own “piggy bank” and in withdrawing the partnership’s moneys for his personal use without his late mother’s knowledge.c. the appellant’s defence of laches as well as his argument that his late mother knew and consented to the withdrawals were rejected since both arguments were not pleaded.d. the late mother was illiterate and did not share in the profits of the partnership. the late mother’s purported drawings were most probably taken by the appellant who then gave his late mother a monthly allowance of around $1,000.e. the appellant held the misapplied sum and private profits as a constructive trustee for the partnership. the judge did not make a finding as to the exact amount of the misapplied sum or private profits but instead ordered the appellant to account to his late mother’s estate at an inquiry to be conducted by a registrar.f. as regards the $20,000 allegedly used for funeral expenses, the judge observed that although the appellant’s litigation representative had conceded that he was not pursuing the claim, his closing submissions were ambivalent on this point. the judge found that there was objective evidence that the $20,000 had been repaid in any event.9 on appeal, the appellant submitted the following:a. the judge had erred in finding that the appellant had breached his fiduciary duties as a partner when he made withdrawals for his personal use. there was a common understanding between the partners that they were entitled to withdraw moneys for their personal use.b. the judge had also apparently erred in finding that the appellant had abandoned his claim for the $20,000 which was used for his late mother’s funeral expenses.c. the judge had erred in preferring the evidence of the respondents’ expert over the appellant’s expert. the true value of the partnership was therefore a net negative value, half of which the respondents were liable for.d. the judge had erred in ordering the appellant to account to the respondents for the moneys which he had withdrawn from the partnership and for those moneys to be held on constructive trust by the appellant.e. the judge had erred in finding that the respondents were not personally liable for the partnership’s liabilities as at the date of dissolution.10 during the hearing of the appeal, the appellant’s counsel sought to expand the scope of the inquiry ordered by the judge in the event that the court of appeal upholds the finding of the breach of fiduciary duty: a. that the inquiry should include all deposits into the partnership accounts by the appellant.b. that certain items, (“sundry debtors” and “due from lhmpl”) which the judge found were assets of the partnership in deciding that the partnership was solvent, should be revisited.decision on appealthe partnership was solvent as at the date of dissolution11 the court preferred the evidence of the respondents’ expert over that of the appellant’s expert, and found the partnership to be solvent as at the date of dissolution. the appellant’s claim was therefore dismissed: at [62]–[71].the appellant was in breach of fiduciary duty with respect to the misapplied sum12 the court accepted that the mere fact that the appellant had withdrawn moneys for his own personal use did not inexorably mean that he had breached his fiduciary duties to his late mother. the critical issue is whether his late mother had knowledge of and consented to those withdrawals for the appellant’s personal use (“the consent defence”): at [74].13 the appellant also raised an argument that there was a common understanding that the partners were entitled to withdraw moneys for their personal expenses: at [75].14 the court rejected the consent defence and the argument on common understanding because they were not pleaded. the court also observed that the claim brought by the appellant in fact undermined his unpleaded case theory because nothing could be more personal than funeral expenses for a deceased partner and yet the appellant’s case was that his late mother was not entitled to use the partnership’s moneys for such personal expenses. obviously, by the appellant’s own case, there could not have been any such common understanding: at [75].the equitable doctrine of laches was not available to the appellant15 the court explained that if the consent defence fails, the defence of laches would likewise fail because the late mother’s knowledge determines the reference point from which she could have commenced an action but elected not to do so. this is crucial in determining the length of the delay. if the late mother never had knowledge of the appellant’s withdrawals for personal use (which the court found to be the case), there would be no operative delay up till the time she passed away. it was only after her death in december 2014, when the respondents (who knew of the appellant’s personal use of the moneys) were appointed executors of the late mother’s estate that any such delay was potentially relevant: at [77].16 the court observed that a key element of laches is that there must be a substantial lapse of time, and found that a period of about four years since the passing of the late mother cannot be said to be substantial in the present case: at [78].17 the court also observed that it would be plainly wrong to look just at the length of delay. that delay must render it inequitable or unconscionable for the respondents to mount a belated counterclaim against the appellant. this would typically involve an examination of the prejudice suffered by the appellant as a result of the inordinate delay. there was no prejudice here as it was the appellant who initiated the claim against his late mother’s estate. in defending the claim, it was essential for the respondents to raise the counterclaim since both the appellant’s claim and the counterclaim are predicated on the same footing, ie, that the appellant and his late mother were, at all material times, equal partners. it was also essential to examine the true state of the partnership accounts. viewed in this manner, the appellant could hardly complain about the counterclaim as it was the direct consequence of his own decision to sue his late mother for half of the outstanding uob overdraft facility: at [80].18 the court further observed that there was no dispute that the appellant had in fact withdrawn moneys from the partnership’s accounts and those withdrawals are well documented, the accounting can be done without much difficulty. as such, there was no prejudice to the appellant: at [81].the appellant was in breach of fiduciary duty with respect to the private profits19 the court found that the appellant had withdrawn private profits and since the consent defence was rejected, the appellant would have to account for those profits: at [82]–[85].the appropriate remedy for the breach of fiduciary duty 20 the court accepted that the scope of the inquiry should include all deposits made by the appellant and that such deposits will not be treated as capital injections: at [88].21 the court rejected the appellant’s submission to revisit certain items which the judge found were assets of the partnership in deciding that the partnership was solvent. the court observed that this argument was not raised in the appellant’s case or the skeletal arguments, and that it was not open to the appellant to revisit this point at the inquiry given the judge’s findings and the court’s affirmation of those findings on appeal: at [89].22 the court clarified the scope of the inquiry such that it included any further deposits made by the appellant, any withdrawals (excluding withdrawals for central provident fund top-ups and income tax) and deposits made by the late mother, as well as any private profits which the appellant had taken from the partnership. the court emphasised that all other items not within the clarified scope of inquiry should not be revisited at the inquiry: at [92].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.