supreme court of singapore27 may 2022case summaryasiana airlines, inc v gate gourmet korea co, ltd [2022] sghc(i) 8singapore international commercial court originating summons no 11 of 2021---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by simon thorley ij):outcome: sicc dismissed an application to set aside an arbitral award for breach of natural justice, inability to present one’s case and failure of the tribunal to consider all issues placed before it. 1 the applicant, asiana airlines, inc (“asiana”) was the respondent and counterclaimant in an arbitration (“the arbitration”). the respondent, gate gourmet korea co, ltd (“ggk”) was the claimant.2 a contractual dispute arose between the parties and ggk commenced the arbitration against asiana. in the award issued (“the award”) by the arbitral tribunal (“the tribunal”), ggk’s claims were allowed, and asiana’s counterclaims were dismissed. an addendum (“the addendum”) was later issued to correct a clerical error.3 this was an application by asiana to set aside the award and the addendum on the basis that there was a breach of natural justice, inability to present one’s case and failure of the tribunal to consider all issues placed before it.background to the application4 asiana was a company engaged in the business of air travel and was part of a group of companies, the kumho asiana group (“the kumho group”). ggk was a company engaged in the business of providing catering and other services to the airline industry. both companies were incorporated under the laws of the republic of korea. ggk was a joint venture between gate gourmet switzerland gmbh (“ggs”) and asiana. ggs was a subsidiary of the gate gourmet group of companies.5 negotiations between the parties resulted in three agreements, one of which was a catering agreement (“the agreement”) dated 30 december 2016 between asiana and ggk. the agreement was governed by korean law. the other two agreements were a joint venture agreement between ggs and asiana and a bonds with warrants subscription agreement between an associate company of ggs and the holding company of the kumho group.6 subsequently, asiana and ggk disagreed on the interpretation of annex 1.4 to the agreement (“annex 1.4”). among other things, they disagreed on the pricing mechanism in the agreement. asiana took the position that the pricing mechanism was to be adjusted and renegotiated wholesale at appropriate stages, while ggk took the position that the pricing mechanism did not entail a full renegotiation process and adjustments were to be made only to certain figures.7 ggk commenced the arbitration against asiana and sought an order that asiana should pay all outstanding invoices and a declaration that the pricing mechanism in the agreement was binding and did not require any further agreement. asiana counterclaimed for, among other things, a declaration that ggk was bound to negotiate and agree with asiana on an adjusted pricing mechanism and for an order that ggk repay excess payments based on the adjusted pricing mechanism. the tribunal allowed ggk’s claims and dismissed asiana’s counterclaims.8 asiana relied on arts 34(2)(a)(ii) and/or 34(2)(a)(iii) of the uncitral model law on international commercial arbitration to argue that it was unable to present its case and/or that the tribunal failed to consider all issues placed before the tribunal. asiana also relied on a breach of natural justice under s 24(b) of the international arbitration act (cap 143a, 2002 rev ed) to set aside the award and the addendum. 9 asiana contended that the tribunal failed to give any or any proper consideration to the expert report of a korean law expert, professor young-joon kwon (“professor kwon” and “the kwon report”), and therefore applied the wrong principles when interpreting the terms of the agreement. the tribunal also allegedly failed to properly address the aspects of the kwon report which apparently supported the assertion by asiana that ggk’s interpretation of the agreement might render the agreement null and void under korean law. it also contended that the tribunal failed to consider a document adduced by ggk as an exhibit in the arbitration, exhibit c-333 (“c-333”), which might have impacted the interpretation of annex 1.4.10 underlying all asiana’s contentions was the assertion that the tribunal erred in identifying the principles of korean law that it applied when reaching its conclusion on the proper meaning of the contractual provisions which were in dispute. specifically, asiana contended that not only was the tribunal wrong in its analysis of korean law, which it accepted was not a ground for setting the award aside, but that the reason the tribunal erred was due to its failure to consider fully or at all the unchallenged expert evidence of professor kwon. had the tribunal done so, it would have appreciated that korean law mandated a more nuanced approach to interpretation which did not afford primacy to the wording of the agreement but required the intention of the parties to be discerned by reference to other factors including the avoidance of invalidity.decision of the courton the kwon report11 the court found that professor kwon did not suggest that the principle of effective interpretation has overriding effect or is required to be taken into account where the objective meaning of the words used is clear, such that the principle becomes a mechanism for rewriting a contract where the clear objective meaning of the words used could lead to a conclusion that the contract is void. where the intention is clear from the wording and that wording cannot mean anything else then the parties are left with the consequences of the wording they have chosen: at [86].12 the court observed that the tribunal concluded that in all contested respects the objective meaning of the wording used in the agreement was clear on its face. the tribunal went on to consider various subsidiary means of interpretation in the event that its primary conclusion on the clarity of meaning was wrong, not because it felt obliged to do so when the wording was clear. in reaching those conclusions, the tribunal did not expressly refer to the kwon report. this might be due either to the fact that it did consider the kwon report but concluded that it added nothing or that it overlooked the need to consider it having reached the conclusion from reading the pleadings that the principles of interpretation under korean law were common ground. regardless, even if the tribunal had overlooked the need to review the kwon report, no prejudice has been caused to asiana by this failure as it would not have caused the tribunal to alter its conclusions on the applicable principles of interpretation: at [89] to [92].13 the court also found that it formed no part of asiana’s case at the arbitration that the factual matrix was such that an interpretation which favoured ggk would render the agreement void. asiana’s case had to be that it was valid, regardless of the interpretation, in order to support its counterclaim. the first time that asiana contended that there should be a finding of invalidity was in this application. asiana also did not seek relief, in the alternative, in the form of a declaration that on the basis of ggk’s preferred interpretation the agreement would be null and void. the issue of invalidity was thus not expressly raised. the court examined the pleadings, agreed list of issues, opening statements, evidence adduced and closing submissions in the course of its judgment and concluded that it cannot be said that the parties accepted between themselves and before the tribunal that the issue of invalidity fell to be decided: at [97] to [99].14 accordingly, the court concluded that asiana had not made out a case for setting aside the award on the basis that the tribunal failed to properly consider professor kwon’s evidence or that the tribunal failed to consider asiana’s arguments on interpretation and invalidity of the agreement: at [93] and [100]. on c-33315 the court found that c-333 was irrelevant having regard to the way the tribunal interpreted the relevant clauses in the agreement. further, in so far as it might be said that there was relevance in assessing the commercial common sense of the agreement, such a consideration was irrelevant to interpretation when the objective meaning of the words used was clear: at [110] and [111].16 accordingly, asiana had not made out a case for setting aside the award on the ground that the tribunal failed to properly address c-333: at [113].costs17 the court found that ggk had not satisfied the court that based on an interpretation of clause 19.1 of the agreement, it would be entitled to be indemnified in respect of any costs incurred in the arbitration. asiana’s conduct also could not have been said to have justified the award of indemnity costs: at [121] and [126].18 the court also found that it was not only reasonable but sensible and proportionate for ggk to have employed two sets of counsel: at [127].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.