supreme court of singapore26 may 2022case summaryasia petworld pte ltd v sivabalan s/o ramasami & another [2022] sghc 128general division of the high court – suit no 258 of 2021 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the general division of the high court (delivered by justice philip jeyaretnam):outcome: the gdhc dismisses a drop shipping company’s claim against its former employee and his new company for breach of confidence, breach of duty of good faith and fidelity, and conspiracy.(192 characters)pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  not all information that an employee cannot disclose while he is employed is protectable as confidential information after he ceases to be employed: at [42].•  knowledge and experience that an employee legitimately acquires while working for an employer is not information possessing the requisite quality of confidence for a claim in breach of confidence. thus, while an employee is not entitled to take with him confidential price lists of his employer when his employment ends, he is entitled to use his recollection and knowledge of those prices in his new business: at [43], [53] and [54].background to the dispute1 the plaintiff, asia petworld pte ltd, was a singapore company involved in the drop shipping of pet products. the first defendant, mr sivabalan s/o ramasami, was a former employee of the plaintiff. he was the plaintiff’s warehouse manager for around six years.  2 on 1 february 2021, the first defendant tendered his resignation. thereafter, he set up the second defendant, global pet company pte ltd, with mr john robert foley (“mr foley”). mr foley was a director and shareholder in sierra nevada pet company (“snpc”), a major customer of the plaintiff. after the second defendant was set up, snpc stopped using the services of the plaintiff and started using those of the second defendant instead.3 before the end of his employment by the plaintiff on 28 february 2021, the first defendant told some of the plaintiff’s employees and customers that he was leaving the plaintiff and setting up a new business (the second defendant). one of the customers that the first defendant spoke to was petbucket. by august 2021, the volume of orders from petbucket to the plaintiff had reduced significantly.4 the plaintiff alleged that the defendants had misused its confidential information (the “information”) and had conspired to injure it. the plaintiff also alleged that the first defendant breached his implied duty of good faith and fidelity arising from his employment. the court’s decision 5 the court dismissed the plaintiff’s claims in their entirety. breach of confidencethe nature of the first defendant’s duty of confidentiality6 the court first considered the legal basis for the first defendant’s duty of confidentiality to the plaintiff. the court held that the first defendant was subject to an equitable duty of confidence, derived from his implied duty of good faith and fidelity as the plaintiff’s employee: at [41].7 as per adinop co ltd v rovithai ltd [2019] 2 slr 808, three basic elements must be met in a claim based on an equitable duty of confidence: a. the information must possess the necessary quality of confidence; b. the information must have been imparted or received in circumstances such as to give rise to an obligation of confidentiality; andc. there must have been unauthorised use of the information, and detriment to the party who disclosed the information to the recipient who misused it. where confidential information has been accessed or acquired without a plaintiff’s consent, the legal burden lies on the defendant to prove that its conscience was unaffected. however, as confirmed by the court of appeal in lim oon kuin and others v rajah & tann singapore llp and another appeal [2022] sgca 29, this shift in the burden of proof only occurs where the acquisition of the confidential information by the defendant was unauthorised: at [36] and [37].8 because the first defendant was an employee of the plaintiff, his relationship with the plaintiff entailed good faith, loyalty and fidelity. thus, the circumstances required by the second element were established: at [38].9 the court then considered whether the first and third elements were established.whether the information bore the necessary quality of confidence10 the court concluded that the information did not bear the necessary quality of confidence: at [54].11 information relating to the plaintiff’s suppliers did not possess the necessary quality of confidence. the court rejected the plaintiff’s argument that the information of where one can find the lowest price for a product was confidential. this is because the first defendant had acquired that information over the years, in the course of working for the plaintiff. it was not the case that the plaintiff kept a list of customers which the first defendant took with him when he left. the fact that the plaintiff had no competitors did not mean that its supply chain information was confidential: at [46] to [48].12 information relating to the true costs of the plaintiff’s products did not possess the necessary quality of confidence. this was information that could be found with the plaintiff’s suppliers. given that the information relating to the plaintiff’s suppliers was not confidential, the cost of their products could not be confidential. it could be obtained by simply approaching the suppliers: at [49].13 information relating to the plaintiff’s cost factoring method also did not possess the necessary quality of confidence. the plaintiff claimed that it operated in a price-sensitive industry and that this information could be used to undercut it. however, this did not make the information confidential. this information was knowledge and experience that the first defendant had acquired in the course of his work: at [51].14 finally, information relating to the plaintiff’s fees did not bear the necessary quality of confidence. while it would be wrong for an employee to take with him unpublished price lists when he left his employer, he would not be prevented from using his recollection and knowledge of the employer’s prices in his new business. here, the plaintiff had not alleged or provided evidence to show that the first defendant had taken documents relating to the plaintiff’s fee schedule when his employment ended: at [53].whether the information was misused15 given the court’s conclusion that the information did not bear the necessary quality of confidence, this issue did not need to be dealt with. however, the court dealt with it briefly: at [55].16 the court first held that the burden of proof to show that the first defendant misused the information remained on the plaintiff. this was because the first defendant had acquired his knowledge of the procurement or sales market over the years, and this was not an unauthorised manner: at [56].17 after considering the evidence, the court concluded that the first defendant had not misused the information in approaching the plaintiff’s customers. the first defendant was unhappy working for the plaintiff and wanted to resign for this reason. while he had boasted to other employees that his new company would take away business from the plaintiff, this did not indicate that he intended to misuse the information. rather, he wanted to show that he could succeed outside the plaintiff and put one up over his former boss. also, snpc left the plaintiff not because the first defendant provided it with the information but because it was dissatisfied with the plaintiff’s services: at [59] to [61].18 further, the first defendant did not inadvertently leak the information to petbucket. if his intention was to ask petbucket to give their business to the second defendant, he would not have wanted to give petbucket the information that would enable it to undertake its own procurement: at [64] and [65].19 the first defendant also did not misuse the information for the second defendant’s business. naturally, he must have drawn on his knowledge and experience acquired over the years in procuring products. however, it was not proven that the first defendant used any specific item of information for the second defendant’s benefit: at [66].conspiracy to injure the plaintiff20 the court held that the defendants did not conspire to injure the plaintiff. first, the alleged acts of conspiracy occurred before the second defendant was incorporated. the court rejected the plaintiff’s argument that s 41(1) of the companies act 1967, which permits ratification of pre-incorporation contracts or other transactions, could be relied on to ratify an overt act for the purpose of conspiracy: at [72] and [73].21 further, the plaintiff did not identify whether it was alleging an unlawful means conspiracy or a lawful means conspiracy. for an unlawful means conspiracy, the plaintiff had failed to establish any unlawful means. for a lawful means conspiracy, it was a requirement that there was a predominant purpose to injure the plaintiff. the plaintiff had failed to establish this, given that the first defendant’s intention in resigning and starting the second defendant was to further his own career, and mr foley was simply proceeding in the best interests of the second defendant and snpc: at [74] and [75]. breach of implied duty of good faith and fidelity22 the first defendant also did not breach his implied duty of good faith and fidelity to the plaintiff during his employment. preparatory steps to compete with a former employer would not constitute a breach of the duty of good faith and fidelity. only actual competitive activity was not permissible. the first defendant’s incorporation of the second defendant and registration of its website did not constitute competitive activity: at [76] to [79].loss suffered by plaintiff23 the evidence adduced by the plaintiff on damages was limited, and unclear in its purport and effect. the appropriate comparator to assess loss of profits would be the profits that the plaintiff would have been able to make without the first defendant as an employee. this was because the first defendant was not obligated to continue working for the plaintiff. he was entitled to resign and remove his skills from the service of the plaintiff: at [80].inquiry as to damages for interim injunction24 the plaintiffs had, on 16 june 2021, obtained an injunction to restrain the defendants from soliciting the plaintiff’s customers and employees. the injunction was sought on the ground that any solicitation of the plaintiff’s customers or employees would entail the use of the plaintiff’s confidential information. the plaintiff failed to establish that the information was confidential or that it had been misused. thus, the plaintiff was not justified in seeking and obtaining the injunction. however, the court declined to order an inquiry as to damages in favour of the defendants because they had not shown an arguable case that they had sustained loss falling within the plaintiff’s undertaking as to damages. this is because they took the position that the second defendant was not set up to compete with the plaintiff, and that it had no need to employ any of the plaintiff’s staff or do business with any of its customers: at [17], [81] and [82].conclusion25 for the reasons above, the court dismissed the plaintiff’s claims.this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.