supreme court of singapore19 may 2022case summarylaw society of singapore v cnh [2022] sghc 114court of three judges – originating summons no 3 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of three judges (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: c3j orders that a solicitor who took photographs of his colleague’s chest, brassiere and panties and pressed his thigh against her upper arm is to be struck off the roll.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the seniority of an errant solicitor was relevant as an aggravating factor, but the absence of an aggravating factor was not a mitigating factor. thus, the mere fact that the respondent was in his first year of practice when he committed the offences against his colleague did not justify a lower sanction. that being said, the fact that an errant solicitor was relatively junior could be mitigating if such inexperience explained or mitigated the misconduct. in the present case, however, there was no nexus between the respondent’s inexperience and his misconduct: at [75] to [77].•  the respondent’s sentence of four weeks’ imprisonment in the criminal proceedings should not be considered in determining the appropriate disciplinary sanction. taking account of factors extrinsic to an offender was likely to undermine the functioning of disciplinary proceedings as it would result in the more favourable treatment of certain individuals. it was also impossible for the court to place a value on downstream consequences like criminal sanctions and to translate this into an appropriate reduction in sentence in disciplinary proceedings, or to meaningfully compare the different potential criminal consequences that could be faced by offenders. finally, it was not the business of the disciplinary court to impose a more lenient disciplinary sanction to indirectly alleviate the consequences and severity of any criminal proceedings, or to attempt to influence how the offender might be punished under the criminal law: [84] to [87].background and material facts1 the respondent solicitor (the “respondent”) was admitted to the roll of advocates and solicitors on 27 august 2016. at the time of the offences, he was a legal associate at a local law firm (the “first law firm”). the victim (“v”) was also working at the first law firm, first as a trainee and later as a legal associate.2 sometime in april 2017, in the office of the first law firm, the respondent leaned over v on the pretext of reading her computer screen. he took the opportunity to look at her brassiere through her neckline and to take some photographs of v’s chest and brassiere using his handphone. after viewing the photographs in his room, he returned to v’s cubicle and proceeded surreptitiously to take several photographs of v’s panties before leaving abruptly. the respondent then returned to his room, where he viewed all the photographs he had taken of v before deleting them.3 on 11 october 2017, v was having lunch alone in her room in the first law firm. at around 2.30pm, the respondent entered her room and closed the door behind him. he sat on the floor to v’s right while v sat at her desk. the respondent struck up a conversation with v, asking her what she was eating. v swivelled her chair to the right to face the respondent, and during their conversation, he took several photographs of v’s panties using his handphone. when v crossed her legs, the respondent asked her whether it was painful for females to sit cross-legged for too long, and how long she could sit in that way. the respondent then stood up and walked towards v’s desk, rested his buttocks on her desk and struck up another conversation with v. he subsequently pressed his thigh against her upper arm. thereafter, the respondent returned to his room to view the upskirt photographs he had taken of v, before deleting them.4 v lodged a police report on 7 november 2017, and the respondent resigned from the first law firm on 15 november 2017. on 8 june 2020, the respondent pleaded guilty to and was convicted of two charges of insulting v’s modesty by taking photographs of her chest, brassiere and panties. the respondent also consented to having one charge of taking photographs of her panties and one charge of pressing his thigh against her upper arm taken into consideration for the purposes of sentencing. he was sentenced to four weeks’ imprisonment.5 on 16 june 2020, the attorney-general referred the respondent to the law society pursuant to s 85(3) of the legal profession act (cap 161, 2009 rev ed) (the “lpa”). the law society preferred two charges against the respondent, based on the charges in the criminal proceedings, and informed the respondent by email that it would be applying to the chief justice to appoint a disciplinary tribunal (“dt”). no response was received from the respondent. after the appointment of the dt on 3 september 2020, there were multiple unsuccessful attempts by the dt secretariat to contact the respondent. the respondent did not attend the hearing before the dt on 23 november 2020 either in person or by counsel. on 8 february 2021, the dt issued its report, where it determined that there was cause of sufficient gravity for disciplinary action under s 83 of the lpa.6 on 9 february 2021, the law society informed the respondent by email of the dt’s decision that the respondent be referred to the court of three judges. no response was received. the law society subsequently filed c3j/os 3/2021 (“os 3”), and made multiple unsuccessful attempts to contact the respondent and to serve certain documents at his address in singapore. on 6 september 2021, the court granted the law society’s application for an order for substituted service of these documents on the respondent. service was effected on 9 september 2021.the court’s decisionwhether os 3 should be heard and determined notwithstanding the respondent’s absence7 os 3 could be heard and determined notwithstanding the respondent’s absence, pursuant to s 104 of the lpa. the court had made an order for substituted service on the respondent and, in accordance with this order, service had been effected and proof of service provided by affidavit: [40] to [41].whether due cause for disciplinary action under s 83(2)(h) of the lpa had been established8 due cause for disciplinary action under s 83(2)(h) of the lpa had been established. based on rule 23(1) of the legal profession (disciplinary tribunal) rules (2010 rev ed), the dt was entitled to accept the documents tendered in the respondent’s criminal proceedings as evidence of the facts stated therein. these documents included the statement of facts and the certificate of conviction. the dt was thus entitled to find that the facts underlying the charges preferred by the law society were made out. the respondent’s misconduct plainly fell within s 83(2)(h) of the lpa and was sufficiently serious to warrant the imposition of sanctions under s 83(1) of the lpa: at [48] to [50].the appropriate sanction to be imposed on the respondent9 as for the appropriate sanction to be imposed, the court applied the framework in law society of singapore v seow theng beng samuel [2022] sghc 112. the court was satisfied in this case that the misconduct in question attested to character defects rendering the respondent unfit to be a member of the legal profession. first, the respondent’s conduct was premeditated and persistent. it evinced disturbing predatory instincts which could not be tolerated in society, much less among members of an honourable profession: at [52] to [53].10 second, v’s account of the respondent’s “emotional blackmail”, including claiming that if v proceeded against him it would “hurt his mother who was already very sick”, and his threats to commit suicide, as well as his requests to mutual friends to communicate with v on his behalf in an attempt to pressure her into dropping the case against him, all reflected the respondent’s cynical and exploitative attitude towards v. instead of evincing genuine remorse, the respondent attempted to save his own skin by waging a war of emotional attrition against v, in the hope that she would buckle under the pressure: at [54] to [55].11 third, the respondent took advantage of v in an environment where she would have expected to be safe, and her guard would have been down. he had abused v’s trust in him as a close friend and as a colleague: at [57] to [60].12 fourth, the respondent’s failure to plead guilty at an early stage was further evidence of his lack of remorse and his unwillingness to take responsibility for his own actions, as well as his cynical and exploitative attitude towards v. if the respondent were genuinely contrite, he would not have waited till june 2020 – some 8 months after a two-day ancillary hearing in november 2019 – to plead guilty. further, as a lawyer himself, he knew, or at least ought to have known, that the prolonged delay would have caused emotional stress and anxiety to v as she would have to relive the episode in her mind in her preparation to testify at the trial: at [62] to [64].13 finally, the respondent’s complete absence from the proceedings before the dt and before the court underscored the utter lack of remorse on his part. were the respondent really remorseful, he would have appeared before the dt and the court and demonstrated his willingness to face the consequences of his actions: at [65] to [66].14 the respondent’s misconduct had caused grave dishonour to the standing of the legal profession. sexual offences severely violated the dignity and bodily integrity of the victim. the conduct in question was egregious and would besmirch the reputation of the legal profession if the respondent were allowed to remain on the roll. second, the respondent had committed these offences in the workplace against his colleague. this entailed a particular breach of trust that brought grave dishonour to the profession, as it sullied the expectation that colleagues would not abuse or violate one another. the offences were also aggravated here because they took place in the office of a law firm, a place that should be associated with upholding the values of the profession: at [68] to [70].15 there were no mitigating factors in the present case. the respondent had totally ignored the proceedings and had not sought to mount any attempt at mitigation. for completeness, the court noted that the respondent did not appear before the dt and did not plead guilty to the charges before the dt. unlike solicitors in other cases who had pleaded guilty and in that way evidenced remorse and saved resources, there was no mitigating weight to be attributed to the respondent’s conduct in these disciplinary proceedings. second, since the respondent had not appeared before the dt to raise any mitigating factors, the court agreed with the law society that it should not have regard to the respondent’s claim of suffering from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. in any event, in disciplinary proceedings against solicitors, personal mitigating circumstances that diminished the culpability of the errant solicitor would have less, if any, weight than might be the case in criminal proceedings. third, the respondent should not receive any credit for not renewing his practising certificate because it appeared that he continued to earn a living as a lawyer in indonesia. there was also no indication that the respondent had ceased practice in singapore voluntarily, in recognition of or in atonement for his transgressions, or out of genuine remorse or contrition. finally, the respondent’s misconduct had already come to light by the time he ceased practising in singapore: at [71] to [72].16 the court did not accept the law society’s submission that a lower sanction might be warranted in this case than in law society of singapore v ismail bin atan [2017] 5 slr 746 just because the errant solicitor in that case was a senior lawyer of about 20 years’ standing and stood in a supervisory position in relation to the victim, while the respondent in the present case was a fellow junior lawyer in the same team as v. first, seniority was relevant as an aggravating factor, but absence of an aggravating factor was not a mitigating factor. thus, the mere fact that the respondent was in his first year of practice when he committed the offences against v did not justify a lower sanction. that being said, the fact that an errant solicitor was relatively junior could be mitigating if such inexperience explained or mitigated the misconduct. in the present case, however, there was no nexus between the respondent’s inexperience and his misconduct. the gravity of the offences he committed against v were plain to any solicitor regardless of his or her seniority: at [74] to [77].17 the court also did not accept the law society’s submission that the respondent had already been punished in the criminal proceedings with four weeks’ imprisonment, and this could be taken into consideration by the court in determining the appropriate disciplinary sanction. first, the rationale for punishment under the criminal law included the preservation of public peace and order. this was different from the rationale for punishment under the disciplinary regime, which was primarily concerned with the protection of members of the public who are dependent on solicitors in the administration of justice and the upholding of public confidence in the integrity of the profession. taking account of factors extrinsic to an offender had nothing to do with the sentencing objectives that the disciplinary court was obliged to consider in this context, and in fact, it was likely to undermine the functioning of disciplinary proceedings as it would result in the more favourable treatment of certain individuals. second, the concerns articulated in m raveendran v public prosecutor [2021] sghc 254 equally applied in the disciplinary context – it was impossible for the court to place a value on downstream consequences like criminal sanctions and to translate this into an appropriate reduction in sentence in disciplinary proceedings, and the different potential criminal consequences that could be faced by offenders could not meaningfully be compared. finally, it was not the business of the disciplinary court to impose a more lenient disciplinary sanction to indirectly alleviate the consequences and severity of any criminal proceedings, or to attempt to influence how the offender might be punished under the criminal law: at [78], [85] to [86].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.