supreme court of singapore9 may 2022case summaryyee heng khay (alias roger) v angliss singapore pte ltd and another matter [2022] sghc(a) 20civil appeal no 82 of 2021 and summons no 4 of 2022---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------grounds of decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by belinda ang saw ean jad):outcome: ad dismisses appeal by appellant alleging that there was a miscarriage of justice that justified a retrial.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the appellate division found that the requirements to adduce further evidence on appeal as established in ladd v marshall [1954] 1 wlr 1489 are not applicable in relation to further evidence adduced in response to new evidence and a new allegation.•  in relation to a judgment allegedly obtained by fraud, the appellate division acknowledged the advantages of the approach in noble v owens [2010] 3 all er 830, that a new action for fraud is not always necessary and instead directions may be made at the appeal for the issue of fraud to be determined first. the issue of fraud may be referred to and determined by the same trial judge within the same set of proceedings.•  the appellant who decidedly excluded material evidence at the trial has an uphill task advancing a complaint of miscarriage of justice.  background to the appeal1 this was an appeal by the appellant (“yee”) against the decision of the judge (“the judge”) in angliss singapore pte ltd v yee heng khay (alias roger) [2021] sghc 168 (the “judgment”). 2 the respondent (“angliss”) is a food distributor and yee was its former employee. angliss contended that yee had without authorisation copied and shared restricted files from its information systems. as a consequence of yee’s misuse of confidential information, one of angliss’ suppliers, arla foods ingredients singapore pte ltd (“arla”) bypassed angliss and entered into a distributorship agreement with another distributor, indoguna singapore pte ltd, (“indoguna”), where yee was employed at the time of commencement of the suit.3 the judge found that yee had breached his duty of confidence in equity and contract, and his contractual duties of loyalty and fidelity. the judge also found, among other things, that the relationship between arla and angliss was “robust”, such that but for yee’s breaches, angliss would have secured the arla distributorship agreement and thereby caused losses to angliss. the judge therefore awarded damages to angliss for loss of profits.4 yee’s main contention on appeal was that the judgment was obtained by fraud in that not only was critical documentary evidence in the respondent’s possession concealed, but the respondent’s witnesses also committed perjury having lied on oath. yee mounted this challenge following his successful application to adduce further evidence from arla on appeal in ad/sum 19/2021 (“sum 19” and the “sum 19 evidence”). 5 the court also had to deal with ad/sum 4/2022 (“sum 4”), which was angliss’ application to adduce further evidence on appeal in response to the sum 19 evidence and yee’s case on fraud. 6 during the hearing, however, yee no longer pursued fraud and instead sought a retrial on the basis that there was “miscarriage of justice” in circumstances where the sum 19 evidence was not available before the trial judge and the issue of causation was not fully and properly tried by reference to all of the available evidence. 7 yee argued that arla’s evidence showed that within the management of arla, it had already made up its mind in august 2017 not to continue its distributorship relationship with angliss, and in arla’s communications with angliss, the overtures were to lead angliss on. as such, the loss caused to angliss had nothing to do with yee. this contention was intended to challenge the judge’s finding that it was because yee had taken confidential information and shared the information with indoguna that his actions assisted arla in coming to the decision to terminate its distributorship relationship with angliss.decision on appealsum 4 – angliss’ application to adduce further evidence on appeal8 for sum 4, the court found that the requirements to adduce further evidence on appeal as established in ladd v marshall [1954] 1 wlr 1489 (“ladd v marshall”) did not govern and apply to the further evidence which angliss sought to adduce on appeal. the reason was that angliss’ further evidence was intended to address new points raised by yee in his appellant’s case: at [10]–[13].9 whilst the ladd v marshall criteria apply to preserve finality and ensure fairness, the situation here was different when angliss was not only responding to new points made against it, but also new evidence. in context, finality was less of a concern, and it would be just to allow angliss to respond: at [13].10 the court further observed that where leave to adduce further evidence is granted, typically, a consequential order would be for the respondent to file affidavits in reply: at [14].the appropriate course of action in light of the allegation that the judgment was obtained by fraud 11 the court observed that it had the power to order a new trial in exercise of its civil jurisdiction and to do so in relation to limited questions without affecting other parts of the judgment. the court further observed that the grounds on which a new trial may be ordered have not been statutorily fleshed out: at [16]–[17].12 the court noted that a party seeking to set aside a judgment by adducing fresh evidence to show that the earlier court was fraudulently deceived can adopt one of two alternative procedures. he can appeal and seek, on appeal, to adduce the fresh evidence (the “appeal route”). alternatively, he can bring a fresh action in which the relief sought is the setting aside of the judgment fraudulently obtained. the court added that the preferred practice is for the party seeking to impugn the judgment to bring a fresh action to set aside the judgment on the basis of fraud. the reason is that fraud is a serious allegation, and the court is required to look into all the particulars of the fraud, examine all the affidavits and apply the strict rules of evidence: at [18]–[19].13 the court observed that within the appeal route there are two identifiable settings or scenarios depending on the facts and circumstances.a. the first is where the appeal court is able to determine the issue of fraud since fraud is admitted so that the incontrovertible conclusion is that the respondent deliberately misled the court at the trial and procured his judgment by fraud. in the event the appeal is allowed, the extent to which the judgment is set aside (after the issue of fraud is determined) would depend on the relief sought by the parties as well as whether, on all the evidence placed before the appellate court, it is possible within the appeal proceedings, for the appellate court to adjudicate on the merits of the appeal. another way is to allow the appeal and order a retrial where the fraud is either admitted or the evidence of it is incontrovertible, and where the appellate court is in no position to evaluate the new evidence and, in particular, the effect of the new evidence on the relevance and weight of the rest of the evidence: at [24].b. the second is where the evidence on the issue of fraud does raise questions, but it does not lead to the incontrovertible conclusion that the respondent deliberately misled the court at the trial and procured his judgment by fraud. within this second scenario, the appellate court may prefer the traditional approach that requires a new action for fraud, or make what is now known in england as the “noble-owens” order. the approach taken in noble v owens [2010] 3 all er 830 (“noble v owens”) is that a new action for fraud is not always necessary and directions for the issue of fraud to be determined first are made within the appeal proceedings. the issue of fraud may be referred to and determined by the same trial judge within the same set of proceedings: at [25] and [27].14 the court rejected yee’s position in his appellant’s case, which was to proceed with the appeal. to do so would require the court to allow the appeal on the basis of: (a) evidence not presented before the judge; (b) evidence not tested by cross-examination; and (c) arguments not made before the judge. the court observed that this would be at odds with the exercise of appellate jurisdiction: at [32].15 the court would also not have set aside the judgment and ordered a retrial. the court noted that the issue of fraud was contested, and the evidence of fraud was not incontrovertible. the sum 19 evidence would have to be tested under cross-examination. yee would therefore traditionally have needed to commence a fresh action to prove fraud in order to set aside the judgment: at [33]–[36].16 the court acknowledged the advantages of a noble-owens order but noted that it did not have to decide on the applicability of noble v owens in singapore and its appropriateness as a course of action in the context of this case given that yee no longer pursued allegations of fraud: at [36].whether there was a miscarriage of justice that justified a retrial17 the court found that yee was the author of his earlier decision not to call arla to testify at the trial. the consequence of that decision was the exclusion of information arla had given his former solicitors as early as 3 may 2018 and before the trial in february 2021. as such, yee’s contention – that the sum 19 evidence (which comprised the excluded information provided on 3 may 2018) would have made a difference to the issue of causation and that there would be a miscarriage of justice if a retrial was not ordered – was ill-founded: at [41].18 the court observed that yee did not identify exactly how and where any miscarriage of justice had occurred. he also did not show that if the judge had the sum 19 evidence before her, her decision would have been so different. in fact, the sum 19 evidence do not point to the inevitable conclusion that arla had already decided not to proceed with indoguna by august 2017. the argument yee made to persuade this court that there was miscarriage of justice therefore did not even stand on firm ground: at [44].conclusion19 for the reasons above, the court allowed sum 4 and dismissed the appeal: at [46].