supreme court of singapore25 april 2022case summarysic/s 3/2020 larpin, christian alfred and another v kaikhushru shiavax nargolwala and another [2022] sghc(i) 7--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the singapore international commercial court (delivered by roger giles ij):outcome: the sicc dismissed the defendants’ application for party-and-party costs in their favour to be made on the indemnity basis.background and facts1 the judgment on the substantive issues, larpin, christian alfred and another v kaikhushru shiavax nargolwala and another [2022] sghc(i) 4 (the “main judgment”), was given on 21 february 2022.  2 in the main judgment, the court dismissed the proceedings and ordered that the plaintiffs pay the defendants’ costs with liberty to apply if either party sought a different or additional order. 3 by way of a letter dated 2 march 2022, the defendants applied for an order “that the [defendants] shall be entitled to party-and-party costs on the indemnity basis (as opposed the usual standard basis) for work done on the matter from 29 march 2021”. the plaintiffs opposed the defendants’ application on the basis that indemnity costs did not apply in singapore international commercial court (“sicc”) proceedings, and also took issue with the defendants’ reasons why the order should be made.the court’s judgment 4 this case had been transferred from the high court to the sicc on 2 april 2020. at the time of transfer, it was ordered that o 110 r 46 of the rules of court (2014 rev ed) (“the rules”), being the rule prescribing the costs regime in the sicc, was to apply to the assessment of costs in respect of the proceedings after their transfer.  o 110 r 46(1) provided for payment of “the reasonable costs of the application or proceedings … unless the court orders otherwise”. o 110 r 46 has since been replaced by o 22 of the singapore international commercial court rules 2021, which came into operation on 1 april 2022, but the proceedings remained subject to the rules (at [7]).5 the distinction between costs on the standard basis and costs on the indemnity basis was found in o 59 of the rules. costs on the indemnity basis did not mean that the receiving party recovers all their costs. for costs on the indemnity basis and the standard basis, the receiving party recovered only their reasonable costs (reasonable in amount and in incurring): the distinction sounded in the resolution of doubt over reasonableness of amount or incurring. costs on the standard basis and costs on the indemnity basis differed only in the burden of proof (at [9] and [11]).6 o 110 r 46(6) expressly provided that o 59 “does not apply to” proceedings in the sicc. o 59 contained a separate regime for costs in the high court, including the provisions for standard and indemnity costs and also the manner in which costs might be ordered, differing from o 110 r 46 (at [12]).7 when regard was had to the meaning of costs on the indemnity basis, it was difficult to see an order for costs on that basis as an order otherwise pursuant to the discretion in o 110 r 46(1). the costs were still the reasonable costs of the application or proceedings. the difference was in the burden of proof, that doubt over reasonableness was resolved in favour of the receiving party rather than in favour of the paying party. directing how doubt was to be resolved was scarcely “otherwise” from payment of reasonable costs, and importation of the concept of indemnity costs would be expected to be made clear; on the contrary, it was excluded by the dis-application of order 59 (at [24]).8 indemnity costs as distinct from costs on the standard basis did not arise under the sicc costs regime. it was therefore not open to the court to make the order sought by the defendants (at [12] to [18] and [26]).9 if appropriate, account might be taken of matters which in proceedings before the high court might have resulted in the making of a costs order on the indemnity basis, not by an order for costs on the indemnity basis (since this was not available under the sicc costs regime), but through arriving at the amount of reasonable costs or perhaps by departure from the measure of reasonable costs as an order otherwise. reasonable costs is a broad and flexible concept, allowing arrival at proper compensation to a successful party taking account of all the circumstances (at [27]).10 even if it was open to the court to make the order sought by the defendants, the court would have declined to do so (at [37]). 11 the court did not accept that the recovery of the costs in a separate proceeding commenced by mr solomon lew against the appellants, respondents and others should be seen as the real reason for the proceedings. a person can justifiably seek to undo a transaction into which the person was misled by fraud, even if the asset acquired was acquired at proper value, in order to vindicate the wrong done and to be restored to the person’s previous position (at [33]).12 the proceedings were not unreasonably brought or brought when the plaintiffs should have foreseen that they were likely to fail and, certainly not as brought as an abuse of process. it was not unreasonable for the plaintiffs to have declined to accept the defendants’ offer to settle on the basis of discontinuance with no order as to costs in a letter of 29 march 2021 (at [34] and [35]). 13 there was no unreasonableness in the plaintiffs’ conduct of the proceedings to an extent calling for sanction in indemnity costs (at [36]).this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s judgment. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s judgment.