supreme court of singapore14 april 2022case summaryloh der ming andrew v koh tien hua [2022] sghc 84 originating summons no. 5 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of three judges (delivered by chief justice sundaresh menon):outcome: the court of three judges (the “court”) held that the respondent (“koh”) had acted against the instructions of the applicant (“loh”) and, more pertinently, that he had intentionally and dishonestly concealed this fact from loh. on these bases, taking into consideration two other charges brought against koh for making misleading statements to an assistant registrar, the court ordered under s 98(1) of the legal profession act (cap 161, 2009 rev ed) (“lpa”) that koh be suspended from practice for 3 years.pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the court reiterated that where a solicitor’s misconduct is dishonest, that will often lead to an order for striking off. if the dishonesty is indicative of a character defect which renders the solicitor unfit to remain in the profession, or where the dishonesty undermines the administration of justice, an order for striking out would almost invariably be made: at [48] and [69] to [73].•  on the facts, the court held that koh’s dishonest conduct was not indicative of such a character defect, nor did it undermine the administration of justice. the essence of koh’s wrong was his mismanagement of loh as a client. further, koh did not benefit from his dishonesty, the extent of koh’s concealment was not elaborate, and loh suffered no actual harm from koh’s concealment. accordingly, this was not a case which warranted a striking off: at [75], [84], [106] and [110] to [116]. •  however, koh’s dishonesty warranted a substantial suspension. having regard to relevant cases, the need to maintain public confidence in the administration of justice, and the integrity of the legal profession, the court suspended koh from practising as an advocate and solicitor for a period of 3 years: at [116] to [122]. the facts1 on 7 july 2015, loh engaged koh to act for him in his divorce proceedings involving loh’s then-wife and her co-defendant, a neighbour with whom, loh alleged, his wife had been in an adulterous relationship. the co-defendant applied to strike out certain parts of loh’s statement of particulars (“sop”), and the hearing of this application was scheduled for 27 july 2015: at [5] and [6].2 between 7 and 27 july 2015, loh sent several e-mails to koh regarding the conduct of his case. this included an e-mail on 14 july which set out in detail his instructions in respect of the various particulars the co-defendant had applied to strike out. koh did not respond to any of these e-mails: at [7] to [11]. 3 at the hearing on 27 july 2015, before assistant registrar eugene tay (“ar tay”) in the family justice courts (“fjc”), there were three notable occurrences. first, koh represented to ar tay that he had been trying to reach a settlement “in terms of pleadings” with the co-defendant’s counsel, but that he had been “unable to get [loh’s] confirmation”. this was untrue. koh had not attempted to communicate with loh prior to the hearing and, on 24 july, loh had even specifically sought an update from koh regarding his communications with the co-defendant’s counsel on the amendment of pleadings. second, when ar tay sought koh’s confirmation as regards whether loh was contesting “everything that the [co-defendant’s counsel had applied] to strike out”, koh said, “yes. no instructions to agree”. this also was not true. in the above-mentioned e-mail which loh had sent to koh on 14 july, loh had indicated that he was willing to agree to the striking out of certain particulars. third, notwithstanding what he told ar tay, koh nevertheless went ahead to consent to the striking out of 19 particulars in loh’s sop. of these, loh had expressly instructed koh not to consent to the striking out of 14 particulars: at [9], [12] to [14]. 4 on 28 july 2015, koh’s firm wrote to loh to update him about the orders made by ar tay, but did not inform him that orders in respect of 19 particulars being struck out had been made by consent. loh was dissatisfied with the outcome of the hearing, and from then until 11 august, he stated in 21 e-mails to koh that he wished to appeal against ar tay’s orders. in 7 of these e-mails, he also requested that koh send him the notes of argument in respect of the hearing. koh’s responses to loh’s e-mails were sparse, and he also delayed acting on loh’s repeated instructions to file an appeal. in certain e-mails, he even attempted to dissuade loh from filing an appeal: at [16] to [18].5 the appeal was eventually filed on 11 august 2015. however, even at this point, koh did not inform loh that he had entered into consent orders, which typically could not be appealed. he also did not provide loh with the notes of argument. on 12 august, loh discharged koh and represented himself. after loh obtained the notes of evidence from the fjc himself, he confronted koh – by way of an e-mail sent on 3 september – and raised a number of questions in relation to the consent orders. after several follow-up e-mails, koh eventually responded on 5 february 2016 stating that he “exercised [his] discretion as counsel to consent to the [striking out of] obvious ones in order to try and mitigate the issue of costs”: at [20] to [23]. 6 on 23 september 2015, loh proceeded in person with the appeal against ar tay’s orders. the district judge who heard the appeal considered loh’s appeal against the consent orders on their merits despite the fact that they had been entered into by consent. notwithstanding this, loh’s appeal against those orders was dismissed although he was successful in respect of some other orders: at [24]. procedural history7 in may 2016, loh lodged various complaints against koh with the law society of singapore (the “law society”). among these were four complaints: (a) first, that koh had acted in a manner unbefitting a solicitor, contrary to s 83(2)(h) of the lpa, in misleading ar tay by representing that he had sought but had not been able to obtain loh’s instructions regarding a settlement on the pleadings (the “fourth charge”); (b) second, that koh had acted in a manner unbefitting a solicitor by misleading ar tay in representing that loh had not given him any instructions to agree to any of the particulars being struck out (the “sixth charge”); (c) third, that koh had acted in a manner unbefitting a solicitor by acting contrary to loh’s instructions in consenting to certain orders (the “eighth charge”); and (d) lastly, that koh had acted in a fraudulent or grossly improper way, contrary to s 83(2)(b) of the lpa, by intentionally concealing the fact of the consent orders from loh (the “ninth charge”). in the six years since then, loh’s complaints were variously examined by an inquiry committee, a disciplinary tribunal (the “dt”), the high court on two occasions, and the court of appeal: at [26] to [46]. 8 the dt found that koh was only guilty of the fourth and sixth charges. pertinently, the dt determined that koh’s misconduct was not of sufficient gravity to warrant being advanced to the court of three judges (“c3j”). dissatisfied, loh applied under s 97 of the lpa for a high court judge to review the dt’s determination. the high court judge found that koh was also guilty of the eighth charge as well as a less serious alternative form of the ninth charge under s 83(2)(h) of the lpa. however, she also took the view that the matter was not sufficiently grave to warrant advancement to the c3j: at [36] to [41]. 9 loh appealed against the high court judge’s decision and, on 1 july 2021, the court of appeal (in loh der ming andrew v koh tien hua [2021] 2 slr 1013; [2021] sgca 81) found that all four of the aforementioned charges were made out. it also determined that koh’s misconduct, particularly in light of the ninth charge, was sufficiently grave to warrant the c3j’s consideration. it therefore directed that loh apply to advance the four charges to the c3j: at [42] to [46]. the court’s decision on whether due cause was made out against koh10 the court found that due cause under s 83(2)(h) of the lpa was made out against koh in respect of the fourth, sixth and eighth charges, and under s 83(2)(b) in respect of the ninth charge: at [75], [85], [89] and [103].11 as regards the fourth charge, the court found that the misleading statement koh made to ar tay was dishonest. implicit in koh’s statement that he had been “unable” to obtain loh’s instructions, was the suggestion that he had at least attempted to do so. koh knew that he had made no such attempt, and this was evident from the complete lack of communication between koh and loh between 7 and 27 july 2015. it was clearly dishonest for a solicitor to make a false statement knowing that it was false. however, the statement was not one which revealed a character defect rendering koh unfit to remain in the legal profession, and it did not undermine the administration of justice. koh had failed to file written skeletal submissions as ar tay had directed and his statement was an attempt to shift the blame to loh. instead of a fundamental character defect, it revealed a lack of willingness to accept responsibility for his own failings: at [62] to [66] and [74] to [75]. 12 koh’s misleading statement which formed the subject of the sixth charge was also dishonest. however, the court viewed it as an extension of the misstatement forming the subject of the fourth charge and, for similar reasons, determined that koh’s dishonesty did not reveal a defect in his character or undermine the administration of justice: [80] to [85]. 13 koh correctly assessed the lack of legal merit behind the 14 particulars which loh wished to preserve in his sop, but which koh of his own volition consented to being struck out. this was also evident from the district judge’s dismissal of loh’s appeal on those points. however, it was not open to koh to depart from loh’s instructions. koh had ample time to communicate his views to loh before the hearing on 27 july 2015, and acting contrary to his client’s instructions without even attempting to discuss the position with the client was conduct unbefitting a solicitor: at [86] to [89]. 14 the ninth charge was the most serious. having reviewed the evidence, the court found that koh intentionally concealed from loh the fact that he had entered into consent orders. first, koh knew that he was entering into consent orders and did not misapprehend the nature of what he was doing at the hearing. second, koh knew that he was not authorised to consent to those orders. this was clear from loh’s e-mails. third, in light of loh’s many e-mails expressing his wish to file an appeal and review the notes of argument, there was no explanation for why koh did not respond accordingly. fourth, the correspondence showed koh’s reluctance to file an appeal. it was only after loh involved koh’s managing partner that the appeal was filed. fifth, since koh must have known that consent orders could not be appealed, it was revealing that even after the appeal had been filed, koh still did not advise loh that this was the consequence of his having consented to the orders in question. it was only when koh was confronted by loh, after he had obtained the notes of argument, that koh acknowledged he entered into certain consent orders. these facts pointed irresistibly to the conclusion that koh intentionally concealed the consent orders from loh: at [90] to [103].15 however, the court found that such dishonesty did not indicate a defect in koh’s character and did not undermine the administration of justice. as regards the latter, the particulars of loh’s sop which koh had consented (contrary to loh’s instructions) to being struck out contravened the basic rules of pleading, and would have been struck out with or without koh’s consent. koh could have but did not embark on a more elaborate attempt to conceal the consent orders. it was because of this that the court did not read into his misconduct a more fundamental defect in character: at [104] to [106].court’s decision as to the appropriate sanction to be imposed on koh16 turning to the question of sanctions, the court emphasised that the overarching principle was that solicitors who conducted themselves dishonestly would, presumptively, be struck off the roll, if their dishonest conduct indicated a character defect rendering them unfit to remain in the profession, or if such conduct undermined the administration of justice: at [69] to [73] and [110].17 although koh’s conduct was dishonest, the court found that it did not disclose such a character defect and did not undermine the administration of justice. the court also had regard to four other considerations. first, the real nature of koh’s wrong was his woefully inadequate management of loh as a client. second, koh’s misstatements to ar tay were of no consequence, and his concealment of the consent orders from koh was not elaborate. he eventually did file the appeal for loh, and when he did so he would have known that it was only a matter of time before loh would discover what he had done. third, koh did not benefit from his dishonesty. lastly, koh’s misconduct did not ultimately cause loh any actual harm. accordingly, this was not a case which warranted a striking off: at [106], [110] to [116].18 however, a substantial suspension was necessary given koh’s dishonesty. the court had regard to the sanctions imposed in other cases, and the importance of maintaining public confidence in the administration of justice as well as in the integrity of the legal profession, and determined that it was appropriate to impose a suspension for a period of three years: at [116] to [122].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.