supreme court of singapore13 april 2022case summarylao holdings nv v government of the lao people’s democratic republic and another matter [2022] sghc(i) 6 originating summonses no 5 and 6 of 2020--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of quentin loh jad, vivian ramsey ij and douglas jones ij:outcome: sicc awards costs to the defendant fixed at s$222,000. costs of s$8,000 awarded to the plaintiffs for the sealing applications. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the court sets out the principles involved in awarding costs in the sicc.background 1 lao holdings nv and its wholly-owned subsidiary, sanum investments ltd (“the plaintiffs”) had partnered with a laotian conglomerate, st group co ltd (“st group”) to conduct business in laos. their business relationship deteriorated subsequently, and proceedings were commenced between the plaintiffs and st group. the plaintiffs also commenced two arbitrations against the government of the lao people’s democratic republic (“the defendant”). 2 the plaintiffs’ claims were eventually dismissed, and the plaintiffs were ordered to pay costs by the arbitration tribunal. the plaintiffs then filed applications to set aside the bit awards in the singapore high court in hc/os 1389/2019 and hc/os 1390/2019. these applications were subsequently transferred to the sicc in sic/os 5/2020 and sic/os 6/2020 (“os 5” and “os 6” respectively, and “the applications” collectively). at the time of transfer the plaintiffs contended that the costs regime under o 59 of the rules of court (“roc”) and appendix g of the supreme court practice directions (“appendix g”) should continue to apply. the defendant disagreed and submitted that there was no reason why o 110 of the roc should not apply. the court ruled that the parties shall continue to pay court and hearing and fees that are payable in the high court but whether the high court costs under o 59 of the roc should continue to apply after transfer was a question reserved to the sicc.    3 both os 5 and os 6 were dismissed by this court, and the present judgment only concerns the issue of costs consequent to the dismissal of os 5 and os 6. decision4 there should be a distinction between costs incurred pre-transfer to the sicc, and costs incurred post-transfer to the sicc. in relation to the pre-transfer costs, the costs guidelines found in appendix g are always the starting point, and a judge would have to decide whether the circumstances of the case support a lesser degree of dependence on appendix g and whether there were factors that justified a higher assessment of the costs: at [29].5 in relation to costs in the sicc, the costs considerations differ from typical civil proceedings in several ways. firstly, as the cases heard are by definition international and commercial, parties are likely to be more knowledgeable and sophisticated. secondly, parties would generally have agreed to submit to the sicc’s jurisdiction except in the instance of a transfer case where the high court has ordered a transfer on its own motion. thirdly, costs in the sicc are governed by o 110 r 46(1) of the roc, and the sicc practice directions provide in para 152(3) a list of factors that the sicc may consider in arriving at an assessment of reasonable costs. fourthly, there are different policy considerations, such as a lessened emphasis on access to justice and/or the availability of third-party funding: at [33] to [74].6 the overriding and primary policy in the sicc is to compensate the successful party, as far as it is reasonable, for costs incurred in the pursuit of a claim or maintenance of a defence that is meritorious: at [75]. 7 for the pre-transfer costs, having taken into account the parties’ estimated costs provided at a joint case management plan submitted about one month after the transfer to the sicc, appendix g, the number of days the hearing spanned and the work done pre-transfer, costs to the defendant are fixed at s$42,000 all in: at [97] and [101]. 8 for the post-transfer costs, considering the quantum involved in the substantive dispute, the length of the dispute, the work done, the nature of the arguments raised, and the significant complexity of the history and underlying dispute, costs to the defendant are fixed at s$180,000 all in: at [97], [104] to [106].9 the defendant is to pay the plaintiffs costs for the sealing applications in hc/sum 5593/2019 and hc/sum 5579/2020 at s$8,000 all in: at [111].10 after setting off the respective costs awarded, the plaintiffs are to pay the defendant s$214,000 on a joint and several basis: at [114].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.