supreme court of singapore6 april 2022 case summarytan chin hock v teo cher koon and another and another appeal [2022] sghc(a) 15civil appeals nos 68 and 75 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the appellate division of the high court (delivered by justice woo bih li):outcome: the court dismisses the appellant’s appeal against the trial judge’s decision to dismiss his claim for an indemnity against the first respondent, but allows the appellant’s appeal against the trial judge’s decision to allow the second respondent’s claim against the appellant for money owing under a loan. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  a plaintiff in a civil suit must prove that his case is more probably true than not true; it does not suffice for a plaintiff to show that his case is a better explanation for certain events than the defendant’s. this means that a judge is not bound to prefer either parties’ assertions and may simply find that the plaintiff has failed to discharge his burden: at [31].•  the trial judge did not err in finding that the appellant in civil appeal no 68 of 2021 had failed to meet his burden to prove an alleged indemnity as his case was inconsistent, commercially absurd, and his conduct did not support his case: at [62]. •  but the trial judge did err in finding that the second respondent in civil appeal no 68 of 2021 had discharged his burden in proving that the appellant had taken a loan from him: at [105]. background to the appeal1 the appellant in civil appeal no 68 of 2021 (“ca 68”), mr tan chin hock (“tch”), is a businessman and stock market investor. he became acquainted with the respondents in ca 68, mr teo cher koon (“teo”) and mr tan thiam chye (“ttc”) in 2012. teo was a major shareholder and managing director of a publicly listed company known as “isdn”. ttc is a businessman and met teo in 2010. he is also the appellant in civil appeal no 75 of 2021 (“ca 75”). 2 tch bought a large volume of isdn shares in late 2013 and allegedly suffered losses of around $5 million. he claimed that in september 2013, due to a crash in the market, teo had asked him to help prop up the share price of isdn and that teo had promised to indemnify tch for any loss that he would incur. 3 tch also claimed that teo represented that ttc could effect payment pursuant to the indemnity. this would be carried out by teo instructing ttc to sell isdn shares that he had parked with ttc and to use the proceeds to effect payment. on this basis, tch argued that partial payment of the indemnity came about in november 2014 when ttc sold 8 million isdn shares and transferred the proceeds of over 2 million dollars to him (“the sum”). teo denied having given the indemnity. he also denied that ttc was holding isdn shares on his behalf or that the sum was partial payment by ttc on his behalf pursuant to the indemnity.  4 ttc sued tch one year after tch had commenced his action against teo. ttc claimed that the sum was a loan from him to tch. while the loan was orally agreed, it was evidenced by payment vouchers (“the payment vouchers”). 5 both suits were heard by the trial judge who dismissed tch’s indemnity claim against teo but allowed ttc’s loan claim against tch. she awarded ttc the sum with interest to run from the date of the writ. however, she did not allow his further claim for loss of profits and/or dividends or interest to run from an earlier date. 6 tch and ttc both appealed against the trial judge’s decision. ca 68 was tch’s appeal against the trial judge’s decision to dismiss the indemnity claim and allow the loan claim. ca 75 was ttc’s appeal against the trial judge’s decision to award him the sum with interest to run only from the date of the writ.decision7 the court allowed tch’s appeal in part. it dismissed his appeal against the trial judge’s decision with regard to the indemnity claim, but allowed his appeal against the trial judge’s decision to allow the loan claim. 8 as a preliminary point, the court clarified that a plaintiff in a civil suit must prove that his case is more probably true than not true. it does not suffice for a plaintiff to show that his case is a better explanation for certain events than the defendant’s.  this means that a judge is not bound to prefer either parties’ assertions and may simply find that the plaintiff has failed to discharge his burden: at [31]9 on tch’s indemnity claim, the court observed that part of tch’s case was that teo had parked shares with ttc, and thus the sum tch received from ttc in november 2014 was partial payment of the indemnity on behalf of teo.  the court found it unnecessary to deal with this allegation, because, even if it was true, there was no evidence to show that the sum was derived from the shares that teo parked with ttc: at [38]. 10 with regard to the allegation that teo had promised to indemnify tch, the court found that the trial judge did not err in finding that tch had not discharged his burden of proof. first, tch’s case lacked specificity and consistency on material points: at [40]. second, tch’s pattern of buying isdn shares from september 2013 to december 2013 did not support his case that he was helping teo prop up isdn’s share price: at [50]. third, the indemnity, as pleaded by tch, was commercially absurd as teo had no reason to promise such a wide and unlimited indemnity: at [59]. finally, the court took into account tch’s delay in bringing an action against teo: at [61].11 thus, the court held that tch had not shown that the trial judge erred in finding that he had failed to meet his burden in proving the indemnity. 12 with regard to ttc’s loan claim:a. the court noted that while it was undisputed that ttc had transferred the sum to tch, it would not infer that it was a loan simply because the sum was received by tch: at [66]–[67]. b. the court observed that the trial judge had found that the loan was a “better explanation” for the transfer of the sum than the indemnity. the court held that the trial judge should have considered that perhaps neither explanation was established on the evidence: at [69]. c. the court also observed that ttc’s case was based on an oral agreement between him and tch where no other witnesses were present. thus, the existence of the loan was largely based on the competing evidence of ttc and tch. whilst an appellate court would usually not interfere in such situations, in this case, there was other evidence which showed that ttc had not discharged his burden: at [71]–[72]. d. this evidence included the following. first, pre-action correspondence showed that ttc had been inconsistent on the date of repayment for the loan: at [80]–[85]. second, the court noted that the payment vouchers were silent on the terms of the loan – ttc was not someone who decried formality for important commercial matters. the omission to mention the terms suggested that the loan did not exist: at [93]. finally, the court was of the view that ttc’s delay in seeking repayment and suing tch suggested that the loan claim was not bona fide, especially since ttc only sought repayment after prodding from teo: at [103]–[104]. thus, the court held that the trial judge had erred in finding that ttc had met his burden of proof, and thus reversed her decision to award ttc the sum: at [105]. 13 as the trial judge’s decision to allow the loan claim was reversed, ca 75 was also dismissed. the court accordingly varied the costs orders made by the trial judge below. the court also ordered that tch pay teo $40,000 for the costs of ca 69, and that ttc pay tch $40,000 for the costs of ca 68 and ca 75. this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.