supreme court of singapore4 april 2022case summarylim oon kuin and others v rajah & tann singapore llp [2022] sgca 29civil appeal nos. 20 and 21 of 2021--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------decision of the court of appeal (delivered by justice of the court of appeal judith prakash):outcome: coa allows the appeals against the decision of the high court judge to dismiss the appellants’ applications to be joined as parties to certain litigation against the respondent law firm. pertinent and significant points of the judgment•  the court clarifies that the test for breach of confidence as set out in i-admin (singapore) pte ltd v hong ying ting and others [2020] 1 slr 1130 was intended to specifically fill the lacuna in the law for cases involving alleged harm to a plaintiff’s wrongful loss interest, and does not apply to cases involving alleged harm to a plaintiff’s wrongful gain interest: at [39], [41].•  the court holds that joinder may be permitted in circumstances where the new third party effectively replaces an original party who may lack title to sue; the new third party having a cause of action which would survive a striking out application: at [30]–[31].1 the appeals arise from the decision of the high court judge (the “judge”) to dismiss the appellants’ applications to be joined as parties (the “joinder applications”) to certain litigation against the respondent law firm. the judge heard the joinder applications together with the respondent’s applications to strike out (the “striking out applications”) certain litigation against it. the judge allowed the striking out applications and dismissed the joinder applications.  background to the appeal2 the appellants were the key management figures in two related companies (“the companies”). the first, hin leong trading (pte) ltd (“hlt”), was an oil-trading company. the second, ocean tankers (pte) ltd (“otpl”), was a ship management company. the companies were part of a group of companies (the “group companies”) that are or were owned by some or all of the appellants and were managed by them. 3 in or around the first quarter of 2020, hlt encountered financial difficulties and was consequently unable to meet its debt obligations. on 8 april 2020, hlt engaged the respondent to advise on issues arising from its insolvency. given the interconnectedness of hlt and otpl’s businesses, otpl too engaged the respondent law firm to advise on available restructuring options. up until 17 april 2020, the appellants were the sole directors and shareholders of the companies. on that date, the first appellant stepped down as a director, having made certain admissions in affidavits made in support of the companies’ applications for interim moratoriums to be granted under s 211b of the companies act (cap 50, 2006 rev ed) (“the act”). these affidavits stated that hlt and otpl were both in parlous financial positions owing to, among other things, the first appellant’s own conduct in having instructed that hlt’s financial statements not disclose approximately us$800m in future losses. however, the second and third appellants remained directors of the companies.  4 on 27 april 2020, the judge placed hlt under interim judicial management and appointed interim judicial managers (“ijms”) over hlt. on 12 may 2020, the judge placed otpl under interim judicial management and appointed interim judicial managers over otpl. after their appointment, the ijms of both the companies retained the legal services of the respondent. 5 while the interim judicial management orders were still in place, the second and third appellants caused the following legal proceedings to be commenced: (a) originating summons number 666 of 2020 (“os 666”), by which otpl sought orders to restrain the respondent from advising and acting for it and its ijms and judicial managers (“jms”) in its application to be placed under judicial management; and (b) originating summons number 704 of 2020 (“os 704”), which sought a similar order in relation to hlt and the respondent. according to the second and third appellants, os 666 and os 704 (collectively, the “injunction applications”) were necessary to protect confidential information and documents disclosed by the appellants and hlt and otpl to the respondent. 6 on 5 october 2020, the respondent filed the striking out applications. the appellants filed the joinder applications a week later, to procure the joinder of the appellants as applicants to the injunction applications. 7 in deciding the applications below, the judge proceeded on the basis that there had been a joint retainer between the companies and the appellants. he identified two categories of information: (a) information disclosed by the companies; and (b) information belonging to the appellants or their other companies that they had disclosed to the respondent and which could not be shared with the companies. the first category could not be said to be confidential vis-à-vis the companies. furthermore, s 227g of the act as well as the relevant orders placing the companies under judicial management (read with s 227b(10)(b) of the act) provided that the ijms and jms were fully entitled to receive such information from the respondent. the question of the court exercising its supervisory jurisdiction as regards this category of information therefore did not arise.8 on the second category of information, the judge considered that according to the principle in winters v mischon de reya [2008] ewhc 2419 (ch) (“winters”), where information was voluntarily disclosed by one party to his solicitor in circumstances where there was no reasonable expectation of confidence, for example in respect of a matter of which the solicitor was jointly retained, there generally was no confidentiality of such information as between the other party to the joint retainer. this was unless the party disclosing had made it clear that the information was to be regarded as confidential between him and the solicitor. the appellants did not put forward any evidence that they had expressly instructed the respondent not to share the information they had disclosed pursuant to the joint retainer with the companies. furthermore, since their case was that the information was disclosed to the respondent for the purposes of advising on the restructuring of, among others, the companies, it would be contrived for them to suggest that the information was not to be shared with the companies, and the respondent would not have understood that there could be such a limitation. thus, the appellants could not assert confidentiality in respect of the second category of information. the judge therefore dismissed the joinder applications.decision on appeal9 under the two-part inquiry for a joinder application under o 15 r 6(2)(b) of the rules of court (cap 322, r 5, 2014 rev ed) (“the rules”), the court would first determine whether the requirements of a particular limb thereunder were met, before considering whether its discretionary power to allow joinder should be exercised in favour of the applicant. the court of appeal held that the “necessity” limb under o 15 r 6(2)(b)(i) did not apply: the appellants did not assert an interest on behalf of the companies that was necessary to the determination of os 666 and os 704, nor was their presence necessary to the issue of whether the companies were entitled to the reliefs sought: at [25]–[28].10 it was however “just and convenient” to add the appellants under o 15 r 6(2)(b)(ii) of the rules. the questions of confidential information and the supervisory jurisdiction of the court as raised by the appellants were undoubtedly linked to the injunctive relief claimed by the companies. the claims substantially arose from the same facts, ie, disclosure of information to the respondent by the appellants and the companies, which the appellants claimed would not have taken place had they known that the respondent could subsequently act for the jms of the companies in a manner adverse to their interests. the appellants had disclosed some information which appeared to have the necessary quality of confidence although this was subject to further investigation at trial. the question of whether the respondent ought to be restrained from acting on the basis of the supervisory jurisdiction of the court was also a broader concern that arose on the facts: at [29].11 it was argued by the respondent that o 15 r 6(2)(b)(ii) of the rules did not apply to the present situation where the appellants were trying to bring themselves into os 666 and os 704 in a wholly different capacity, to prevent the actions being struck out when they had been started without due authority. however, the provision could not be so confined, and covered situations where something remained to be done between an existing party and a new third party seeking to be added to the action. in the present context, as the appellants had a cause of action on the basis of a breach of confidence or the supervisory jurisdiction of the court that was not frivolous or vexatious or obviously unsustainable, their title to sue could not be impugned at this interlocutory stage: at [30]–[31].12 on the applicable test for breach of confidence, the court of appeal clarified that the modified approach set out in i-admin (singapore) pte ltd v hong ying ting and others [2020] 1 slr 1130 (the “i-admin approach”) was intended to specifically fill the lacuna in the law for cases involving alleged harm to a plaintiff’s wrongful loss interest, and did not apply to cases involving alleged harm to a plaintiff’s wrongful gain interest. the i-admin approach differed from the previous framework in that the legal burden shifted onto the defendant at the third stage of the inquiry as to whether the cause of action was made out. this limitation to cases involving the unauthorised acquisition of confidential information was evident on the facts of i-admin itself: at [36]–[42].13 on the first limb of the test, certain documents and information pointed to by the appellants possessed the requisite quality of confidence on a prima facie basis. while the information was provided in the context of the group restructuring, it could not be said that such information therefore necessarily belonged to the companies. the said information often related to individual companies among the group companies that were distinct from the companies. on the second limb of the test, the longstanding client-solicitor relationship necessarily formed the backdrop against which the allegations of breach of confidence were to be understood. the information could be said to have been received in circumstances importing an obligation of confidence. from the point of view of the appellants, the appointment of the respondent as the solicitors for the companies was made on the basis that the respondent, in seeking to resolve the financial predicament that the companies were in, would have regard as well to the interests of their longstanding clients, the appellants. on the third and final limb of the test, the information included in-depth details of the workings of individual companies within the group, all of which were connected to the appellants. that very same information could potentially be utilised against the appellants by the jms who were appointed thereafter. the court of appeal further found it arguable that information and documents provided by the appellants which related to companies distinct from hlt and otpl were provided apart from the purposes of any joint retainer, that is, to advise the companies. the court of appeal therefore considered that the proposition in winters did not necessarily preclude claims of confidence on the part of the appellants: at [48]–[55].14 on the appellants’ invocation of the supervisory jurisdiction of the court in order to restrain the respondent from acting for the jms, the test was whether a fair-minded, reasonably informed member of the public would conclude that the proper administration of justice required that the legal practitioner be restrained from acting, in the interests of the protection of the integrity of the judicial process, including the appearance of justice. although the appellants might have made certain concessions before the judge that would appear to have confined their cause of action to one based in confidence, there was arguably a broader case engaging the supervisory jurisdiction of the court, which was supported by affidavits filed by the appellants. these asserted that the appellants had sought advice from the respondent on the steps that the appellants should take to protect their and the group companies’ interests, and provided information and documents relating to the group companies in the belief that these would be used to advise and protect these same interests. on the other hand, the truth of the respondent’s assertion that it was not engaged in any such group restructuring and had not advised or acted for any of the appellants in their personal capacities in relation to the financial distress of these companies would have to be established at trial. the long history between the respondent and the appellants might also be relevant in assessing whether an injunction should be granted: at [65], [70]–[74].15 for these reasons, the court of appeal allowed the appeals: at [75].this summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the court’s grounds of decision. it is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the court. all numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the court’s grounds of decision.