the appellants were partners of two registered firms and another firm which was unregistered.
their profit and loss for the assessment year 1948 49 were as follows: from registered firms rs. 11,902 loss, 1,265 loss, total loss rs. 13,167.
income from the unregistered firm rs. 26,110 profit, other income rs. 262.
the income of the unregistered firm was taxed on the firm.
in assessing the amount of rs. 262 the income tax officer first determined the total income of each of the appellants by setting off their share of the profits of the unregistered firm against their share of the loss of the registered firm.
the appeal to the appellate assistant commissioner being unsuccessful appeals 175 were taken to the tribunal which relying on the decisions in commissioner of income tax vs ratanshi bhavanji, [1952]22 i.t.r. 82, held that just as loss in an unregistered firm could not be set off against profits from a registered firm, the profits in an unregistered firm could not be set off against the loss from a registered firm.
on a reference being made to it the high court differed from the decision of the tribunal, and held that the profit from the unregistered firm could be set off against the loss from the registered firms to find out the rate applicable to rs. 262 which was other income of the assessees.
the high court further held that the assessees could not carry forward the loss of the registered firms to the following year, because such loss must be deemed to have been absorbed in the profits of the unregistered firm.
on appeal with a certificate of the high court, held, that the view of the high court that under sections 14(2) and 16(1)(a) the profit and loss had to be set off against each other to find out the total income, and that although the share of a partner in the profits of an unregistered firm is exempt from tax, it is included in his total income for the purpose of rate only, was correct but the high court erred in holding that the losses suffered by the registered firms could not be carried forward because they had been absorbed by the profits of the unregistered firm.