the appellants and the respondents were owners of adjoining collieries and the suit out of which the present appeal arose was one brought by the respondents for certain reliefs on the allegation that the appellants had encroached upon their coal mines and removed coal from the encroached portion and that they came to know of the said encroachment and removal of coal after they had received the letter dated august 18, 1941, from the inspector of mines.
the appellant denied the encroachment and pleaded that the suit was barred by limitation inasmuch as the respondents had knowledge of the encroachment in 1932 then there was a survey by the department of mines.
the trial judge found on evidence that the proceedings in 1932 had nothing to do with the matter, held that article 48 of the limitation act applied to the suit and that the appellants had failed to prove that the respondents had knowledge of the sinking of the quarries and pits in the encroached land and decreed the suit.
the high court on appeal accepted the finding of the trial court and although it placed the burden of proving knowledge on the part of the respondents beyond the prescribed time on the appellants, nevertheless proceeded on the assumption that the initial burden to prove that they had knowledge of the said encroachment within the period was on the respondents and affirmed the decree of the trial court.
held, that the burden of proof had not been misplaced.
under article 48 of the indian limitation act, which prescribes a three years ' limitation from the date of the knowledge, the initial onus is obviously on the plaintiff to prove that date since it would be within his special knowledge.
moreover, under section 3 of the act, which makes its obligatory on the court to dismiss a suit barred by limitation, even though such a plea is not set up in defence, it is for the plaintiff to establish that the suit is not so barred.
lalchand marwari vs mahant rampur gir, pat.
(p.c.) 312 and rajah sahib perhalad seim vs maharajah rajender kishore singh, (1869) 12 m.i.a. 292, referred to.
under the there is an essential distinc tion between burden of proof as a matter of law and pleading and as a matter of adducing evidence and under section 101 of the 493 act the burden in the former sense is always on the plaintiff and never shifts, but the burden in the latter sense may according to the evidence led by the parties and presumptions of law or fact raised in their favour.
sundarji shivji vs secretary of state for india, pat. 752, disapproved.
kalyani prasad singh vs borrea coal co. ltd., a.i.r. 1946 cal.
123, bank of bombay vs fazulbhoy ebrahim, and talyarkhan vs gangadas, bom.
848,approved.
held, further, that it is well settled that a map referred to in a lease is a part of the lease.
where, therefore, the map is drawn to scale and clearly demarcates the boundary it is not permissible to ignore it and reconstruct the boundary with reference to the revenue records.
darapali sadagar vs jajir ahmad, cal. 394, referred to.