the appellant filed a suit for pre emption for the sale of certain lands against the first respondent.
a compromise decree was passed in favour of the appellant and lie was directed to deposit rs. 5951/ less rs. 1000/ already deposited.
the suit was to stand dismissed with costs if the deposit was not.
made punctually.
the appellant made an application to the subordinate judge for making the deposit of the balance of ' the amount.
the clerk of the court prepared a challan in duplicate and handed it over to the appellant.
in the challan rs. 4950/ were mentioned instead of rs. 4951.the money was deposited by the appellant.
later on, it was pointed out that the deposit was short by re. 1.
the subordinate judge accepted the objection and set aside the decree for pre emption passed in favour of the appellant.
the order of the subordinate judge was set aside by the district judge.
it was held that the court and its clerk made a mistake by ordering the appellant to deposit an amount which was less by re. 1,/ and hence the appellant was excused in as much as the responsibility was shared by the court.
the decision of the district judge was set aside by the high court and the appellant came to this court by special leave.
held, that the decision of the district judge was correct and the appellant was ordered to deposit re. 1/ in the court of the subordinate judge.
the appellant was an illiterate person and the court and its officers had largely contributed to the error committed by him.
it is true that the litigant must be vigilant and take care, but where a litigant goes to the court and asks for its assistance, so that this obligation under a decree might be fulfilled by him strictly, it is incumbent on the court, if it does not leave the litigant to his.
own devices to ensure that the correct information is furnished ', if the court in supplying the information makes a mistake, the responsibility of the litigant, though it does not altogether cease, 146 is at least shared by the court.
if the litigant acts on the faith of that information, the court cannot hold him responsible for a mistake which it itself causes.
no act of court should harm a litigant and it is the bounden duty of courts to see that if a person is harmed by a mistake of court, he should be restored to the position lie would have occupied but for that mistake.