a widow whose estate was under the charge of the court of wards.
made an adoption and applied under section 37 of the u.p. court of wards act, 1912, for permission to make the adoption.
the collector refused the permission as the grant of authority to adopt, by the husband who died in 1901, was not proved.
the 1st respondent 's father, the nearest reversioner, filed a suit challenging the adoption as contrary to section 37 of the act and the suit was decreed.
the widow.
there.after, applied to the court of wards for permission to adopt the appellant.
fresh enquiries about grant of authority by the husband to adopt, were made, and permission was granted and the appellant was adopted in 1929.
immediately after the adoption of the appellant the court of wards, released the estate and assumed charge of it again on behalf of the appellant who was a minor.
on the death of the widow in 1943, the 1st respondent 's father filed a suit, challenging the validity of the appellant 's adoption on the ground that the widow had no authority from her husband to adopt.
the trial court decreed the suit and the high court, on appeal.
affirmed the decree.
in appeal to this court it was contended that the conclusion of the court of wards to grant permission and the reasons for the decision could not be questioned in a civil suit.
held: the civil court was competent to reconsider the question, of the authority given by the husband, even after the consent of the court of wards.
section 37 of the u.p. court of wards act affects the competence of the wards to make an adoption, and as the consent of the court of wards is a pre requisite, any adoption made without such consent must be ineffective.
the section, however, does not make the sanction of the court of wards cure illegalities or breaches of personal law.
nor does the sanction make up for incompetence arising under the personal law.
those matters would have to be determ/ned according to the personal law in a civil court of competent jurisdiction.
[30e g] section 53 also is not a bar to such a suit.
the section only provides that if the court of wards gave or refused its consent to a proposed adoption a suit would not lie to cancel the consent or to compel it.
it does not go to the length of saying that after the consent of the court of wards, the adoption itself cannot be questioned at all.
[30h] in deciding the question of authority, the statements made by witnesses at the second enquiry by the court of wards for giving its consent to adopt, could not be considered by the civil court they were not relevant or admissible either under section 32(7) or section ,of the indian evidence act.
[32 d f; 33 a c] 28 as the 1st respondent 's father never accepted the appellant 's adoption it could not be said that the suit, filed more than 15 years after the adoption during which time the appellant had been considered by everyone to be legally and validly adopted, ought to be dismissed.
[33e g]