the respondent who had as a result of auction obtained a mining lease from the appellant state, applied for extension of the lease period in view of the mandatory nature of the main provision of rule 30 and simultaneously also applied for renewal of the lease in accordance with the provisions of the proviso to rule 30.
the appellant refused the first prayer but extended the period by a few months.
the respondent thereafter, filed a writ petition in the high court for striking down the order of the government renewing the lease by a few months and for directing the appellant to extend the lease in the first instance for two years to bring it in conformity with the period of lease specified in rule 30 and to renew after the expiry of such extended period, for a further period of 5 years under rule 30.
the appellant contended that the provisions of chapter iv of the rules did not apply to the grant of mining leases by auction or tender provided for by chapter v of the rules and that in any case the initial period short of 5 years must be deemed to have been at the desire of the respondent and that any further extension of the period of lease under the proviso was in the discretion of the appellant and consequently, the respondent could not claim to have the period of the lease extended for a period of 5 years.
the high court disagreed with the appellant 's contentions and allowed the petition.
in appeal by certificate; held: matters not provided for by rules in chapter v with regard to mining leases will be covered by provisions relating to those matters in chapter iv, as these provisions deal with the essential incidents affecting grant of mining leases.
[404 h] rule 30 applies to leases granted under chapter v both because the rules under chapter iv apply to such leases and because there is no corresponding rule in chapter v. [407 g h] the word "may" in the proviso in rule 30 in regard to the extension of the period by, government should also be construed as 'shall ', so as to mike it incumbent on government to extend the period of the lease if the lessee desires extension.
of course no question for the extension of the lease can arise if the lessee himself does not wish to have the lease for a further period.
it is on account of this option existing in the lessees that the word 'may ' has been used in this context.
but the option given to the lessee to have the lease extended by period of another five years is to be respected only if the lessee gives the guarantee referred to in the proviso.
[408 h] the first extension must be five years and not less.
the period of lease can be shorter than five years only when the applicant desires and not when the government desires.
[409 b] 403