the appellant company, which carried on the business of buying bulk electrical energy and distributing it to consumers, made an application under the , to the certifying officer, madras, for an amendment of two of its certified standing orders relating to holidays and leave.
it was claimed by the appellant that the urgent need for increased production and for increased supply of electrical energy could be met if the existing rules embodied in the two standing orders were suitably amended; the amendments pro posed sought to introduce different rules relating to holidays and leave for employees who were appointed before a specified date and those who joined service after that date.
the proposed amendments were resisted by the respondents ' union on the ground, inter alia, that they would introduce discrimination between one se of employees and another resulting in industrial unrest and disharmony.
the certifying officer upheld the respondents i plea and nega tived the amendments.
an appeal to the appellate authority against this decision was dismissed.
it was contended on behalf of the appellant that the proposed amendments were fair and reasonable and that the certifying officer and, the appellate authority had erred in law in not certifying the standing orders as proposed to be amended.
held : (i) the certifying officer and the appellate authority committed no error of law in refusing to certify the modified standing orders.
[510 e] the act provides a self contained code and the certifying officer is given the power to consider questions of fairness and reasonableness as well as other questions indicated by section 4(a) and (b).
an appeal is provided against the decision of the certifying officer and in case a dispute arises as to the interpretation or the application of the standing order, a remedy is provided in section 13a.
a tight is given both to the employer and the workman to move the appropriate authorities for modification of the existing standing orders.
[505 g h] (ii) it is clear from the provisions of the act requiring industrial establishments to have their standing orders certified that matters specified in the schedule to the act should be covered by uniform standing orders applicable to all workmen employed in an industrial establishment.
[505 b] 499 rai bahadur diwan badri das v. the industrial tribunal, punjab;[1963] 3 s.c.r. 930; associated cement staff union vs associated cement co.,& ors. ; guest keen williams private ltd. vs f. i. sterling and others: ; ; referred to.