two matters in dispute between the management of a paints manufacturing company and their workmen, namely: (1) the are of retirement of the workmen and (ii) the introduction of a gratuity scheme for them, were referred to the industrial tribunal.
before the reference was made the workmen were entitled to work so long as they were physically and mentally fit.
the tribunal fixed the age of retirement for clerical and subordinate staff at 58 years and for the factory workmen at 55 )rears.
the tribunal also introduced a gratuity scheme.
it fixed 5 years minimum service in order to enable a workman to earn gratuity and while fixing 21 days ' basic wage or salary as the quantum for gratuity for each completed year of service, included dearness allowance in the words "basic wage or salary.
" both the management and workmen appealed to this court.
the workmen contended that : (i) the age of retirement both for the staff of the head office and the factory workmen should be fixed at 60 years, and (ii) 30 days ' wages instead of 21 days should have been fixed as the quantum for gratuity.
the management objected to the minimum period of five years to enable a workman to earn gratuity even in the case of voluntary retirement or resignation and contended for a longer minimum of service.
the management also urged that dearness allowance should not be included in the basic wages for fixing the quantum of gratuity.
held:(i) the award of the tribunal should be modified, fixing :he age of retirement, for the clerical and subordinate staff as well as for the factory workmen, whether existing or future,at the age of 60 years.
[527 e] age of retirement of 55 years was fixed in the last century in government service and had become the pattern for fixing the age of retirement everywhere.
but considering the improvement in the standard of health and increase in longevity, the age of retirement should be fixed ordinarily it the higher level of 60 years.
since the work in the factory in the present case was not particularly arduous as compared to that of the clerical and subordinate staff, even in the case of factory workmen there s no reason why the age of retirement should be fixed at a lower level, specially when the management could always terminate the services of a workman if he becomes physically or mentally incapable of working, before the age of retirement.
with the age of retirement at 60 years here will be the added advantage that more experienced workmen will be available to the management and that would be a cause for greater efficiency.
as there are no valid and cogent reasons for making a difference in the age of retirement of existing workmen and those employed in future, the future workmen, both clerical and subordinate staff as 524 well as factory workmen, should also have the benefit of the same age of superannuation.
[526 b d; 527 b d] (ii)no case for increasing the quantum of gratuity from 21 days basic wage to 30 days ' basic wage had been made out by the workmen, especially when there was a provident fund scheme also in force in the concern and the workmen, were thus getting two retiring benefits.
[529 h] (iii)in the case of voluntary retirement or resignation by an employee before reaching the age of superannuation, the minimum period of qualifying service for gratuity should be 10 years, and not 5 years as prescribed by the tribunal.
[528 e] the reason for pro tiding a longer minimum period of earning gratuity in the case of voluntary retirement or resignation is to see that workmen do no ' leave one concern after another, after putting in the short minimum service qualifying for gratuity; and gratuity schemes usually provide for a longer minimum in the case of voluntary retirement or resignation.
[527 a b] (iv)gratuity should be paid at the rate of 21 days ' basic wage or wary for each completed year of service, but such basic wage would not include dearness or any other allowance.
[529 f] as the gratuity scheme was being introduced for the first time in the concern, it would be proper to follow the usual pattern of fixing the quantum of gratuity on basic wages, excluding dearness allowance, especially when there was another retiring benefit in the shape of provident fund already existing in the concern.
[529 e] case law reviewed.