the respondent employees made applications under section 33c(2) of the industrial disputes act for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the national industrial tribunal (bank disputes) award (desai award) as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5.356 of the desai award.
the bank claimed that under clause (ii) of para 5.356 of the desai award, the adjusted basic pay in,the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on january 1, 1962 and that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
(ii), cl.
(iv) could not give an employee more than the maximum arrived at under cl. (ii).
the employees on the other hand claimed that they were entitled to what was provided by sub cls.
(a), (b) and (c) of cl.
(iv) and the two increments under sub cl.
(d) and that it did not matter whether what was thus arrived at exceeded the maximum provided under cl.
the labour court partially accepted the employees ' contention and fixed their pay accordingly.
in appeal.
held:the decision of this court in prakash chand mehra 's case would govern the interpretation of para 5.356 of the desai award also, which is in substance the same as para 292 of the sastry award as modified by the labour appellate decision.
the adjusted basic pay in cl.
(ii) has to be taken as on january 1, 1959.
this follows from the fact that the workman basic pay as on january 1, 1959 cannot be reduced and therefore when cl.
(ii) speaks of adjusted basic pay it must refer to the same date as in cl.
further cl (iv) which provides for actual calculations starts with words "subject to rules (i) to (iii)" and therefore the actual calculations made under cl.
(iv) must be subject to cls.
(i) and (ii).
this means in effect that the actual fixation under sub cls.
(a), (b) and (c) of cl.
(iv) will be subject to cl.
(i) and cl.
under sub cl.
(a) of cl.
(iv) a workman will be placed in the sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the sastry award scale equal to or next above his basic pay as on january 1, 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned.
but in view of cl.
(i) this cannot be less than the actual basic pay of the workman as on january 1, 1959.
where under cl.
(i) the actual basic pay as on january 1, 1959 is more than what point to point adjustment will give under cl.
(ii), it cannot be reduced for cl.
(ii) is subject to cl.
after this has been done the workman would be entitled to increments as provided in sub cl.
(b) read with sub cl.
(c) of cl.
(iv), but this will be subject to cl.
(i) and (ii) and the adjusted basic pay arrived at by giving the increments under sub cls.
(b) and (c) cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the 899 actual basic pay as on 1st january 1959, as the case may be.
thus sub cl.
(a) is subject to cl.
(i) and the basic pay to be fixed on january 1, 1959 hag to be fixed by reading sub cl.
(a) of cl.
(iv) and cl.
(i) together.
then increments under sub cl.
(b) read with sub cl.
(c) of cl.
(iv) have to be added, but this is again subject to the provisions of cls.
(i) and (ii).
[903 e; 903 g 904 e] once it is held that basic pay under cl.
(ii) has to be worked out as on january 1, 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
(d) of cl.
(iv) which are beyond that date must be given over and above what has been worked out under sub cls.
(a), (b) and (c) of cl.
(iv) of the desai award.
the fact that by oversight sub cl.
(d) of cl.
(iv) was not made a separate clause would make no difference for sub cl.
(d) provides for a period after the date up to which cl.
(i) works.
[904 h 905 b] state bank of india prakash chand mehra, [1961] 11 l.l.j. 383, relied on.