the first respondent became a member of the council of ministers of the state of jammu and kashmir in 1947 and was the prime minister of the state from 1953 'to january 1963, when he resigned.
thereafter a notification was issued by the state government under section 3 of the jammu and kashmir commission of inquiry act 1962 setting up a commission to inquire into the wealth, acquired by the first respondent and certain specified members of his family during his period of office; the commission was also to inquire whether in acquiring this wealth there was any abuse of his official position by the first respondent or the said relatives.
the commissioner so appointed held certain sittings between february 1965 and august 1965 in which the first respondent took part.
in september 1965 he filed a writ petition before the high court of jammu and kashmir and the high court, allowing the said petition, set aside the notification instituting the inquiry and quashed the proceedings of the commission.
the state appealed to the court.
held: (i) section 37 of the constitution of jammu and kashmir talks of the collective responsibility of ministers to the legislative assembly.
that, only means that the council of ministers will have to stand or.
fall together, every member being responsible for the action of any other.
the section does not mean that a minister is responsible for his acts only to the legislature and no action can be taken against him except for criminal or tortuous acts, in the ordinary course of law, unless the legislature by a resolution demanded it.
no british convention to this effect, if any, can be said to have been adopted by section 37.
furthermore, the responsibility to the legislature is of the council of ministers, and not of those who have, like the first respondent ceased to be ministers.
[405c e].
(ii)section 3 of the commission of inquiry act expressly gives power to government as well as to both the houses of legislature to initiate action instituting an inquiry.
when enacting it the legislature obviously did not consider that there was any convention or anything in section 37 which prevented a commission of inquiry being set up under the act at the instance of the government or the legislative council.
[405f g], (iii)the acts of a minister while in office do not cease to be matters of public importance after he ceases to hold office; their character cannot change.
when it is alleged that a minister has acquired vast wealth for himself and his friends by abuse of his official ' position, there can be no question that the matter is of public 402 importance.
it does not cease to be of public importance merely because what is proposed is to inquire into allegations and not into the steps to be taken to prevent lapses in the future.
nor can absence of public agitation show that the facts to be inquired into are not of, public importance.
[407e g; 408 g] ram krishan dalmia vs shri justice section r. tendolkar, ; , referred to.
(iv) it is incorrect to say that) allegations mentioned are not definiteor that an inquiry into them is not contemplated by the inquiry act.
[409 e f] (v) it cannot be inferred from the provisions of section 10 of the act that a commission of inquiry can inquire into the conduct of a person only incidentally, when the main inquiry is in respect of something else.
what can be done indirectly should obviously have been considered capabe of being done directly.
[411b] (vi)on the facts of the case the inquiry could not be said to be mala fide.
[412f] (vii)the. doctrine of cabinet responsibility does not mean that if an inquiry was made against one of the members of the cabinet that would be discrimination under article 14.
the respondent was in a class, by himself and the classification was justified.
[414a b] (viii)the rule of natural justice only requires that a hearing should be given.
when the commission refused permission to the first respondent to cross examine all the witnesses who had filed affidavits against him no rule of natural justice was violated.
[415g] meenglas tea estate v. their workmen, [1964]2 s.c.r. 165 and nagendra nath bora vs commissioner of hills division & appeals, ,assam ; (ix)section 10 of the act gives a right to cross examine only these persons who give viva voce evidence before the commissioner.
[416f] (x)section 4(c) of the act does not confer a right on a party appearing before the commission to require a witness giving evidence by affidavit to be produced for his cross examination.
the commission would, of course, permit cross examination in a case where it thinks that necessary.
[417e]