the respondent company carried on the business of transport and removal of goods by road.
it owned a fleet of trucks and employed drivers and cleaners to run them.
in 1963 the company, finding difficulty in observing the provisions of the , introduced a scheme whereby the trucks, instead of being run by the company itself were hired out to contractors at a fixed rate per mile.
employees of the company who were engaged in running the trucks resigned their jobs and most of them who had for merly been drivers became contractors under the scheme.
the workmens ' union however raised a dispute asking for the reinstatement of the ex employees who had been given work on contract basis.
the tribunal held that the contract system could not be said to be an unfair labour practice, for the ex employees were never coerced or forced to resign their jobs, and they got more benefits from the contract system than from their original contract of employment.
in appeal to this court the union contended that the ex employees of the company continued to be workmen notwithstanding that they were posed as independent contractors, that the beneficent legislation conceived in the interests of transport workers was being set at naught by the company, and that the setting up of the contract system amounted to unfair labour practice.
held: (i) since the drivers had resigned their jobs they could not be said to be employed in the motor transport undertaking.
the word 'employed ' in the definition of motor transport.
worker is not used in the sense of using the services of a person but rather in the sense of keeping a person in one 's service.
persons who are independent and hire a vehicle for their own operation paying a fixed hire per mile from their earnings cannot be said to be persons employed in the motor transport undertaking in the sense of persons kept in service.
the operators were therefore not motor transport workers within the definition.
[304f h] (ii) there was no bar in law to the introduction of the con tract system.
a person must be considered free to so arrange his business that he avoids a regulatory law and its penal consequences which he has without the arrangement, no proper means of obeying.
this, of course, he can do only so long as he does not break that or any other law.
[306 b c] (iii) those who resigned did so voluntarily and they got substantial benefits under the new system.
the tribunal was right in its conclusion that there was no exploitation of the ex employees.
there 301 was thus no unfair labour practice.
the present case was not analogous to the case of contract labour when employment of labour through a contractor or middleman put the labour at a disadvantage in collective bargaining and thus robbed labour of an important weapon in its armoury.
, [305e 306a.]