the orissa superior judicial service consisted of 15 posts.
10 of which were district and sessions judges or additional district and sessions judges; of the other five, one was registrar of the high court and four were officers of the state government.
p, one of the district and sessions judges was posted as superintendent and legal remembrance in march 1962.
b. an additional judge.
was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month and sometime thereafter was posted as superintendent and legal remembrance.
d, a district and sessions judge was posted in january 1962 as member.
sales tax tribunal, which was a non cadre post.
in february 1965 the high court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts.
whether cadre or non cadre.
outside their regular line, should be called to the regular line after the completion of three years in the interest of the service as well as the officers, so that the officers did not become out of touch with judicial work.
although this policy decision was accepted by the state government.
it was not implemented ' in respect of p, b and d.
the high court being under the impression at the time that in law the governor was the sole authority to effect the necessary transfers.
did not take any action itself.
after the decision of this court in ranga mohammad 's case ; holding that the power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the high court under article 235 of the constitution.
the high court. issued an order on october 10.
transferring p. b and d to judicial posts and posting to the administrative posts in their place, k. t and m who were doing judicial work till then.
in pursuance of those orders k. t and m handed over charge of the posts they were holding and reported to the secretariat for assuming charge of the administrative posts to which they were assigned.
but the government refused to accept them.
the state government directed p. b and d to continue in the posts they were previously holding and those officers acted in accordance with the orders of the government.
consequently.
some of the sessions divisions in the state were without district and sessions judges for several days and some advocates practising in those divisions filet/petitions before the high court for a writ of mandamus against the government.
as well as the concerned officers to implement the transfers ordered by the high court.
they also sought a writ of quo warranto against p. b and d questioning the authority under which they were holding the administrative posts held by them until then.
the high court allowed the petition and directed the governments to implement its orders forthwith.
the government implemented these orders on march 6.
1967 and thereafter appealed to this court, by special leave.
155 held: (i) although the high court was within its powers.
in posting p. b and d, the three officers holding administrative posts.
as district and sessions judges, it was beyond its powers to post in their places three other officers to the administrative posts.
just as the executive cannot know the requirements of a particular court, the high court cannot also know the requirements of any post in the secretariat.
it is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
the high court cannot foist an officer on the government.
[163c d] while sparing the service of any judicial officer to the government it is open to the high court to fix the period during which he may hold any executive post.
at the end of that period, the government is bound to allow him to go back to his parent department unless the high court agrees to spare his services for some more time.
in other words, the period during which a judicial officer should serve in an executive post must be settled by agreement between the high court and the government.
if there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
it is equally open to the high court to recall him whenever it thinks [163 f h] it was not the case of the contesting respondents that p, b and d did ' not have the necessary qualifications to hold the posts that they were holding or that they had not been validly appointed to those posts.
in these circumstances the high court could not have held that they had no authority to hold the posts in question.
[159d] state of assam vs ranga mohammad and ors. ; ; state of west bengal vs nripendra nath baghi; ; ; explained and distinguished.
(ii) a decision is only an authority for what it actually decides.
what is of the essence in a decision is its ratio and not other observations found therein nor what logically follows from the various observations made in it.
[162e f] quin vs leathem, ; ; referred to.