section 4(i) of the expenditure tax act, 1957, is intended to include in the taxable expenditure of an assessee, the expenditure incurred directly or indirectly by a person other than the assessee for discharging any obligation of the assessee, or for the personal requirement of the assessee or of any of the assessee 's dependents, which, but for the expenditure havingbeen incurred by that other person would have been incurred by thesee; and, section 4(ii) is intended to include any expenditure incurred byany dependent of the assessee for the benefit of the assessee or of any of his dependents out of any settlement on trust or other source made or created by the assessee.
a hindu, his children by his first wife, his second wife, and children by her, formed a hindu undivided family, with himself as the karta.
by deeds of trust he settled certain assets belonging to the joint family in favour of the children by the first wife and appointed trustees to manage the assets, to collect the income and to defray the expenses of the children.
the karta was also possessed of separate property.
in computing the taxable expenditure of the assessee family for the years 1958 59 and 1959 60, under the expenditure tax act, the department included two items : (1) the expenditure incurred by the karta, out of his own separate property for his own purposes; and (2) the sum spent out of the trust estate for the children.
on a reference, the high court held that the two items were not chargeable to tax.
in appeal to this court it was contended that the first item was liable to be included in the expenditure of the assessee family under s 4(i) because, the karta in a hindu undivided family is a 'dependent ' and the expenditure incurred was by a person other than the assessee for the personal requirement of a 'dependent ' and the family would have been liable to meet the expenditure if it were not incurred by the karta, and the second, either under section 4(i) or (ii).
held : (1) the expression 'other member of the family ' in section 2(g) (h) (b) does not include a coparcener : it means wives and unmarried daughters of coparceners and widows of the family.
a karta, is expressly excluded from cl.
(a) and is not within the expression 'other member of the family ' in cl.
therefore, the karta is not a 'dependent '.
the facts that when a karta incurs expenditure for the coparceners or other members out of his separate estate the expenditure is liable to be included in the taxable expenditure of the family, and that the expenditure incurred by a coparcener or other member of family out of his separate property in respect of the obligations of the family, or for the personal requirements of the coparceners or other members of the family, is also liable to 590 ,be included in the taxable expenditure of the family, are not grounds for attributing to the expression 'dependent ' a wholly artificial meaning different from its statutory definition.
there is nothing in the scheme of the act which suggests that the expression 'dependent ' in section 4(1) of the act was used in a sense different from that of the definition.
no rule of interpretation permits, for the purpose of section 4(i) of the act, the application of the statutory definition of 'dependent ' to bring within the net of taxation, expenditure incurred for coparceners other than the karta, and of .a special meaning of that expression, inconsistent alike with the personal law of the parties, and the statutory definition, to bring within the net of taxation, the expenditure for the karta.
the court cannot attribute two different meanings to a single expression in its application to two different situations contemplated by a single clause.
[593 h; 594 c d, f; 595 c e; 596 b c] for the year 19591 60, s.4(i) was amended by the deletion of the words 'which but for the expenditure having been incurred by that other person, would have been incurred by the asses see '.
but these words were a surplusage : by deleting them no intention to alter the 'meaning of the original clause (i) could be, attributed to the legislature [598 e f] therefore, for both the years, the expenditure incurred by the karta out of his separate property for his own purposes could not be taken into account in computing the taxable expenditure of the assessee family, even if the family would have been liable to incur that expenditure [596 f] (2)the appellate tribunal found that as regards the children of the karta, the trustees 'had paid, spent or applied the income.
if the finding meant that the trustees incurred the expenditure for necessary expenses of the children, the case would fall under section 4(i) for, the expenditure would be deemed to be incurred by a person other than the assesseefamily for discharging an obligation of the family.
if it meant that the ,expenditure was incurred by or on behalf of the children after it was received from the trustees, the case would fall under cl.
(ii). 'no trusts were created by the karta out of the family funds; the children were dependants within the meaning of section 2(g); and the expenditure was incurred for the benefit of the dependents of the family.
the high court was in error in observing that the expenditure contemplated by section 4(ii) is one which enures for the benefit of a person other than the person who incurs the expenditure.
if expenditure was incurred by a dependent for his own benefit out of any gift, donation or settlement on trust or out of any other source made or created by the undivided family, the case falls within the terms of section 4(ii).
[597 b f] for the year 19,59 60, the legislature amended s.4(ii) and expressly provided that where the assessee is a hindu undivided family, any expenditure, incurred by any dependent of the assessee from or out of any income or property transferred directly or indirectly to the dependent by the assessee, is liable to be included in the taxable expenditure of the assessee.
thus the dependent who incurs the expenditure need not be other than the dependent to whom the property is transferred by the assessee, and, the expenditure incurred for his own purposes by the defendant to whom the property is transferred by the assessee family falls within s.4(ii) as amended.
therefore, if the amount expended from out of the trust estate be held to be expended by the trustees, the case falls within the terms of cl.
(i): if it be held that the expenditure was incurred by or on behalf of the children after the income was received from the trustees it would fall within the amended cl.
[598 f h; 599 a b] 591