the government of central provinces and berar (now state of madhya pradesh) fixed in 1948 a scale of dearness allowance for its servants which though practically identical with the scale of dearness allowance fixed by central government in respect of salaries over rs. 400 per mensem was less than it in respect of salaries for rs. 400 per mensem or less.
the petitioner state government servant challenged the validity of the order of the state government on the ground that his fundamental right under article 14 of the constitution had been violated inasmuch as he had a right to be equally treated with the central government servants similarly situated.
held, that under the provisions of rule 44 of the fundamental rules it is a matter of discretion with the local government whether it will grant dearness allowance to any government servant and if so how much.
it imposes no duty on the state to grant it and therefore no mandamus can issue to compel the state to grant it nor can any other writ or direction be issued in respect of it as there is no right in the government servant which is capable of being protected or enforced.
article 14 does not authorise the striking down of a law of one state on the ground that in contrast with a law of another state on the same subject its provisions are discriminatory.
nor does it contemplate a law of the centre or of the state dealing with similar subjects being held to be unconstitutional by a process of comparative study of the provisions of two enactments.
the sources of authority for the two statutes being different, article 14 can have no application.
therefore 'the scale of dearness allowance sanctioned by the central government can furnish no ground for holding that the allowance sanctioned by the government of central provinces and berar is repugnant to article 14.
the state government was entitled to fix the government of india rates for one slab and ali; different rates for another slab, 600 the punjab province vs pandit tara chand ([1947] f.c.r. 89), and state of bihar v. abdul majid ([1954] s.c.r. 786) distinguished.