the appellant, an unsuccessful candidate filed an election petition for setting aside the election of the respondent who got elected as a congress candidate to a parliamentary constituency.
the respondent was chraged with several corrupt practices, viz., (i) by an ordinance the government of the state in which the congress party was in power, granted exemption to certain agriculturists ' holdings from payment of land revenue and the chief minister announced the benefit though the exemption was claimed for sometime past by the opposition parties the ordinance was passed prior to the election; the opposition parties started a campaign stating that the object of the exemption was to forfeit the land; the chief minister refuted the charge and told the voters that the exemption should be granted and that the opposition parties should be routed in the election; a member of the congress party d, published a pamphlet refuting the false propaganda that exemption was temporary and urging the electors to vote for the congress; (ii) the chief minister on the eve of the election announced increased dearness allowance to certain government employees; (iii) the respondent or his agent distributed dummy ballot papers with the respondent 's name and his election symbol, and also that of appellant 's name but without his election symbol printed thereon, thereby conveying an impression that the appellant had withdrawn his candidature, and further, that the respondent and his agents on the eve of the election told the voters that the appellant bad withdrawn, so the respondent had committed corrupt practice under section 123(4); and (iv) a member of the police force in the service of the government with the consent of the respondent actively canvassed for the respondent, thereby committing corrupt practice under 'section 123(7).
high court dismissed the petition, held: the appeal must be dismissed.
(i)on the materials, on the record, it was impossible to hold that the respondent committed the corrupt practice under section 123(1)a.
the ordinance was passed by the government of madhya pradesh.
as a result of the ordinance a large number of agriculturists got exemption from land revenue.
such an exemption did not amount to a gift, offer or promise of any gratification within the meaning of section 123(1)(a) nor was it possible to say that the government was the agent of the respondent.
the congress party was then in power.
but the exemption was not given by the congress party.
it was given by the ordinance which was passed by the government.
nor does the announcement of the declaration by the chief minister or by the pamphlet carry the matter any further.
it was not possible to say that either the chief minister or d acted as the agent of the respondent.
[815 g] 814 (ii)the grant of the increased dearness allowance could not be regarded as a gift, offer or promise of any gratification within the meaning of section 123 (1 ) (a) nor it was possible to say that the government or the chief minister was the agent of tie respondent.
the employees of the government had given notice to go on strike a week before the election and without their cooperation. the entire election would have been at a standstill.
the government thought that the demand of the employees was legitimate and therefore announced it on the eve of the election to meet it.
[816 d f] (iii)the dummy ballot papers were in contravention of the instructions issued by the election commission of india.
the appellant 's name should not have been printed in them.
but it was impossible to say that the dummy papers conveyed to the voters the impression that the appellant had withdrawn his candidature.
the statement of the appellant 's witnesses could not be accepted that on the eve of the election the respondent and his agents informed the voters that the appellant had withdrawn his candidature.
the voters knew that there were two candidates in the field.
even a few days prior to the election the chief minister stated that the appellant was contesting the election.
the respondent carried on rigorous election propaganda till the last day.
[816 h] (iv)on the evidence the charge that the member of the police force canvassed for the respondent was not established.