the respondent state granted a mining lease to the appellant.
the 5th respondent, whose application was rejected moved the central government under rule 54 of the, mineral concession rules, 1960, praying (i) for setting aside the grant in favour of the appellant, and (ii) for grant of the area on lease to him.
the central government asked for the comments of the appellant and the state government and after receipt of these comments, they were passed to the parties for further comments.
the central government by an order passed on sept. 30, 1964 rejected the application of 5th respondent as time barred.
thereafter, the central government on nov. 5, 1964, under the revisionary powers conferred by r, 55, of the rules and "all the powers enabling in this behalf," set aside the order granting the lease to the appellant, and further directed regrant after issuing fresh notification.
the appellant, moved the high court under article 226 of the constitution for quashing the order of november, 1964, the high court dismissed the petition.
held : the appeal as well as the writ petition must be allowed and the order of the central government nov. 5, 1964 must be set aside.
the high court erred in its approach that the two prayers in the application of the 5th respondent were independent, and that the central government by its order of sept. 30, 1964 had disposed of only the prayer of 5th respondent to grant the area on lease to him, but it had not disposed of his other prayer to cancel the grant in favour of the appellant.
the two reliefs asked for by the 5th respondent were inter connected reliefs.
in the context in which they were mad, they could not be considered as independent prayers.
further by its order dated september 30, 1964, the central government dismissed the entire application of the 5th res pondent on the ground that the same was time barred.
if his application in respect of one part of his prayer was time barred, it was equally, time barred in respect of the other part.
[527 b d] the order of nov. 5, 1964 of the central government does not show that it was made in the exercise of its suo motu powers.
it is purported to have been made on the basis of the application made by the 5th respondent.
[527 e] if the central government wanted to exercise its suo motu power it should have intimated that fact as well as the grounds on which it proposed to exercise that power to the appellant and given him an opportunity to show cause against the exercise of suo motu power as well as 5 2 3 against the grounds on which it wanted to exercise its power.
the central government had not given him that opportunity.
failure of the central government to do so, vitiates the impugned order.
[527 h]