respondents 1 to 9 filed a suit against the appellants and some of the other respondents for a declaration that they hid been carrying on, and were entitled to the worship without interference of the idol of adeshwarji in the temple named after him at paroli according to the tenets observed by the digambri sect of the jain religion.
they further alleged : that the temple was constructed and the idol consecrated according to and by the followers of their sect; that in december, 1949, the defendants had attempted to convert the said idol into the idol of the swetambri sect by putting chakshus (artificial eyes) thereon, but were prevented due to strong opposition of the followers of digambri sect.
it was claimed that although a temporary settlement was reached between the two sects while the rights in the temple were to be adjudicated upon by a civil court, the defendants had made arrangements to alter the temple according to their tenets and that they were intending to enclose the idol by doors and locks with the object of interfering with the free exercise of a digambris ' right to worship the idol.
it was therefore prayed that the defendants be restrained by a permanent injunction from altering the nature and shape and appearance of the idol in any manner or from doing any act which would interfere with the right of worship of the followers of the digambri sect.
the defendants denied that the digambri sect had any right of worship of the idol or had ever exercised such a right and contended that the idol and the temple is in all respects a temple of the jain swetambri sect.
the trial court decreed the suit and the district judge in appeal as well as the high court confirmed the decree.
the high court also fixed three hours a day when the digambris may use the temple for worship in appeal to this court, it was contended inter alia on behalf of the appellant that the reliefs claimed made it clear that the dispute was not of a civil nature; and that the judgment of the trial court was wholly vitiated because the trial judge not having accepted the evidence produced before him, based his findings on his own inspection.
it was also contended that unless the ownership of the temple, was established or that the idol belonged to the digambri sect, no injunction could be given nor could the respondents be permitted to worship there; in the plaint the respondents had averred that the idol is a digambri idol and as they had failed to prove this, their right to worship also failed.
held:dismissing the appeal, (i)from the pleadings and the controversy between the parties it was clear that the issue was not one which was confined merely to rites and rituals but one which effected the rights of worship.
if the digambries have a right to worship at the temple, the attempt of the swetam 837 belies to put chakshus or to place dhwajadand or kalash in accordance with their tenets and to claim that the idol is a swetamberi idol was to preclude the digamberies from exercising their right to worship at the temple, with respect to which a civil suit is maintainable under section 9 of the civil procedure code.
this position is well established.
[843 b] sir seth hakam chand & ors.
vs maharaj bahadur singh & ors., 60 i.a. 313 and nar hari sastri and ors.
vs shri badrinath temple committee; , , referred to.
(ii)while, giving his findings the trial judge remarked that the evidence led by the plaintiffs appeared to be correct.
these observations themselves show that the evidence on record was an element in the formulation of the trial court 's judgment buttressed by the observations of the learned judge during the site inspection.
it was clear that the description given by the learned judge of the idols in the adeshwarji temple and the temple of the swetemberies were observations made during an inspection at which both the plaintiffs and defendants advocates were present and that there must have been notes also in respect of the inspection made on both the occasions.
there was therefore no validity in the contention that the finding of the trial judge was based entirely on the result of his inspection.
[844 g 845 c] (iii)the concurrent findings of the courts below that the idol was nirker ' (naked), that there were no chakshus, no mukat, no armlet, no dhwajadand or no kalash, would show that the idol was consecrated by the digamberies.
it was also clear that it was an ancient temple and that both the digamberies and the swetamberies worship the idol.
it was not denied that while the digamberies will not worship an idol which has chakshus or which has clothes or mukat, the swetamberies would worship a digamberi idol without these and hence the right to worship a digamberi idol by both the sects is possible and it has been rightly so held by all the courts.
[846 e] once the right of worship of digamberies was established they would be entitled to the injunction sought for by them against the appellants from preventing them from worshiping or from interfering with that right by placing chakshus in the idol, dhwajadand, kalash on the temple.
the directions of the high court extending the time for worship by digamberi sect from one hour to three hours was not unreasonable.
[848 a b]