rule 5 of the supplementary rules promulgated under the mysore university act, 1956, provides that "the board of appointments shall give in writing the reasons for the selection of any candidate and also the basis on which the 'selection has been made and always give in writing the reasons for overlooking the claims of those who are seniors (i.e., total service as a teacher) and/or have higher qualifications.
" the first respondent whose total service as teacher exceeded that of the appellant was considered along with the appellant and two others by the board of appoint ments for the post of a professor.
the board made its written recommendation that it took into consideration the academic qualification, research, teaching experience and the performance during the interview of the four candidates who appeared at the interview and resolved to appoint the appellant in the post.
the appointment was later approved by the chancellor of the university.
the 'first respondent filed a writ petition in the high court challenging the appointment of the appellant as being in violation of r. 5.
the high court quashed the appointment.
it took the view that the rule was a mandatory provision and it was incumbent on the board of appointments to state in writing why the first respondent, although he had longer teaching experience, was passed over in favour of the appellant.
allowing the appeal, held : the proper construction of r. 5 is to regard the length of teaching experience as one of the important factors to be taken into consideration by the board of 1 appointments.
however much may be the importance of the length of teaching experience the rule did not provide that as the determining factor.
the rule did not lay down all the factors which are to be considered by the board in making the selection.
[625 h] in the present case the academic qualifications of the appellant and the first respondent were of the same standard.
in mere length of service the first respondent certainly was superior to the appellant.
but that by itself would not tip the scale in his favour.
the recommendation of the board clearly showed that one of the factors which the board had taken into, consideration was teaching experience.
it would be giving preference to, the letter of the rule than to its spirit if it were to be held that the recommendation of the board was to be treated as invalid merely because they had failed to state in clear words that the appellant was preferred to the first respondent although the latter had a longer period of service as a. teacher.
rule 5 was substantially complied with by the board and the failure to record expressly the reasons for disregarding the greater length of service of the first respondent did not vitiate the appointment per se.
at best it was an irregularity which was cured by the approval of the chancellor.
[626 c] 622