the respondent bank gave a loan to godavari sugars refiners ltd., of which defendants 1 to 3, as partners, were managing agents.
subsequently the bank filed a suit for the recovery of the loan.
the appellant, a brother of defendant no. 1, was impleaded as defendant no. 4 and godavari sugars as defendant no. 5.
the suit was decreed and the decree was upheld by the high court.
only defendant no.4 appealed tothis court.
the decree against the appellant was passed on the basis of exh.
1 6, a document which was signed by defendants 1 & 4 and in which it was recorded that the title deeds exhs.
a 7 and exh.
a 8 had been deposited with the respondent bank as security for money due.
according to the appellant the said title deeds had been deposited by him as security for a loan given to him by the bank in his individual capacity, and that the signature of defendant no. i had been appended to exh.
a 6 only because he bad an interest in one of the properties covered by exhs.
a 7 and a 8. held.
if the parties intend to reduce their bargain: regarding the deposit of title deeds to the form of a document the document requires registration.
if on the other hand its proper construction and the surrounding circumstances lead to the. conclusion that the parties did not intend to do so, then, there being no express.
bargain the contract to create a mortgage arises by implication of the law from the deposit itself with the requisite intention, and the document being merely evidential does not require registration.
[220 h 221a] rachpal maharaj vs bhagwandas daruka & ors., ; pranjivandas mehta vs chan ma phee, l.r. 43 i.a. 123, shaw vs foster: ,341 and subramonian the language of exhibit a 6 was undoubtedly wide and if it governed the agreement between the parties then there could be no doubt that the suit debts were also secured by the deposit of title deeds a 7 and a 8.
but exhibit a 6 could not be considered a contract governing the rights of the parties because: (a) it was incomplete inasmuch as certain unnecessary words which were meant to be struck out were not actually struck out; (b) while according to the plaintiff the appellant agreed to secure the debt due from the first defendant to the bank in consideration of the bank not pro ceeding against defendants 1 to 3, no such term was found in exhibit a 6; (c) from the recitals of ex a 6 it was seen that the memorandum in question was intended to 'put on record ' the terms already agreed upon.
if the parties intended that the document should embody the contract between them it would have been necessary to register the same under section 17 of the .
[22oa d] 14 1 section c. india/71 210 exhibit a 6 was not registered.
if that document was considered as a contract of mortgage between the bank and the depositors, the same not having been registered it was inadmissible in evidence.
if on the other hand that document was considered as a ' mere memorandum evidencing the deposit of title deeds in pursuance of an earlier contract then the correctness of the recitals therein could be gone into without being inhibited by sections 91 and 92 of the evidence act.
whichever view was taken the plaintiff 's case must fail.
on an overall consideration of the evidence and probabilities of the case it was established that exbs.
a 7 and a 8 were not deposited with the bank to secure the debts due from defendant no. 1 to the bank.
[222c e] the appeal must accordingly be allowed.