the appellant was charged under section 16(1)(a)(1) of the prevention of food adulteration act, for contravening section 2(1)(f) and 7(1) of the said act the food inspector purchased black tils from the appellant.
p.w. 1 tambe was unable to give either the name of the shop or approximate date modity by the food inspector from the appellant and taking of the sample.
tambe was unable to give either the name of the shop or approximate date or time of his visit.
he was also unable to say whether the shop of the appellant was a foodgrains shop.
timbe was unable to remember who made the cash memo and whether any one signed the cash memo in his presence.
tambe could remember nothing material and he was non committal.
the food inspector in his deposition stated that the signature of tambe was taken on the cash memo but not on the packets although in the examination in chief he stated that tambe had signed the sealed packets also.
the seals of the packets were found broken due to what the inspector described as "handling".
he admitted that no signature of the witness was obtained on the counterfoil of the cash memo.
he stated that black; tils can be used for human consumption and further stated that it is not correct to say that it is used only for puja.
the appellant denied the presence of tambe and asserted that he clearly told the food inspector that the black; tils in his shop were meant for puja and not for human consumption.
the presidency magistrate after examining the whole evidence held that the version of the appellant that there was a talk about the actual purpose for which the til seeds at his shop were meant was more probable because it was supported by what the appellant had written on the cash memo when he sold the til seeds to the food inspector.
the magistrate also held that the analyst 's report showed that the black til seeds were full of cocoons visible to the naked eye and nobody could be expected to purchase them for consumption as food.
however, the magistrate held that the purpose for which the til seeds were kept was quite immaterial.
tho appellant was convicted by the magistrate and the conviction was confirmed by high court.
on appeal to this court by special leave it was contended by the appellant.
(1) that black tils were sold to the food inspector specifically for the purpose of puja and that he was told by the appellant that these were not meant for human consumption.
(2) it is the duty of the prosecution to prove beyond reasonable doubt that what was sold was food.
the whole object of the act is to prevent adulteration of food meant for human consumption.
(3) it is a matter or common knowledge that black til seeds arc not used as food.
^ held: allowing the appeal: 1.
it is true that mens rea in the ordinary or usual sense of this word is not required for proving an offence defined by section 7 of the act.
nevertheless, the prosecution has to prove beyond reasonable doubt that what was stored or sold was food.
the use of the article sold was not entirely irrelevant.
in many eases, it can be presumed from the nature of the article itself or the circumstances 328 or manner of offering it for sale whether the food was for human consumption where circumstances raise a genuine doubt on the question whether what was kept by a seller was food at all this must be resolved by evidence in the case where section 7 prohibits manufacturer, sale or storage or distribution of certain types of food, it necessarily denotes articles intended for human consumption as food.
it is the duty of the prosecution to prove that the article which is the subject matter of an offence is ordinarily used for human consumption is food whenever, reasonable doubts arise on this question.
it is self evident that certain articles such as milk, or bread or butter or foodgrains are meant for human consumption as food.
there are matters of common knowledge.
other articles may be meant for human consumption from representations made about them `from circumstances in which they are offered for sale.
[330 e h, 331 d f] 2.about the use of black tils no judicial notice can perhaps be take of its special purposes in gujarat.
the statement of tile food inspector that the can be used as food also amounted at least to a partial admission that they are used for puja.
there is nothing in evidence to dislodge the statement of the accused.
[331 f h, 332a] 3.
the view of the high court that the tils could be consumed after the performance of puja rests on bare conjectures.
[332a] ^ held further : we are not impressed by the nature of evidence led by the prosecution it is likely that tambe was not present to witness the occurrence.[332c]