many applicants for one permit for a short route pressed their claims before the regional transport authority under the .
the transport authority evaluated the relevant merits and awarded the permit to the appellant.
the system of marks under the rules framed under the act by the tamil nadu government, prescribes various qualifications for applicants for permits for passenger transport under the act.
the rule emphasises that the paramount consideration of the interest of the public as enshrined in section 47(1) must be given full weight while awarding permits.
one of the rules provides that preference shall, other things being equal, be given in respect of the routes to persons who have not held any permit for stage carriage.
one of the considerations which must weigh with the authorities is the business of technical experience in the field of motor operation.
the appellant secured 4 marks as against 3.1 marks secured by respondent no. 1.
in addition, the appellant was entitled to a preference for being a new entrant since the route was a short one.
the appellate tribunal reversed the order of the transport authorities and granted the permit to respondent no. 2 and set aside the permit granted in favour of the appellant on the ground of public interest in the matter of passenger transport service and held that the appellant 's experience as lorry operator cannot be equated with respondent no. 2 's experience in bus operation.
this view was taken by the tribunal following section 47(1).
the appellant filed a writ petition in the high court which was rejected.
on appeal by special leave, ^ held: (1) the rules or guidelines could not be discarded in the name of section 47(1).
the rules made are really in implementation of section 47(1) but is not exhaustive of all the considerations that would prevail in a given situation.
the jurisdiction is given to the tribunal to take note of other considerations in public interest flowing out of section 47(1).
the rules, are, however, not to be discarded but they can be supplemented or outweighed.
in the name of public interest something opposed to the rules cannot be done.
the appellate tribunal has actually contravened rule 155(3) which accords 2 marks for applicants who have a certain experience in road transport service.
road transport service is defined by section 68a(a) and it makes no distinction between the type of transport vehicles in which experience has been gained whether it be of passenger transport or a lorry transport.
the distinction made between passenger transport and lorry service experience by the tribunal is illegal.
a relevant factor has thus been wrongly excluded.
the order of the appellate tribunal is liable to be quashed on the well worn ground that material consideration if ignored makes the order vulnerable.
more over, there is an apparent mis construction of the relevant rule.
the respondent no. 1 stated that there were many other grounds which he could have urged before the tribunal but which have not been adverted to by the tribunal because he could have urged before the tribunal but which have not been adverted to by the tribunal because respondent no. 2 succeeded on one ground.
it is, therefore, fair that the case should be remanded to the appellate tribunal for being heard de novo.
[216 e h, 217a e] 215