kollayya and narasimaiah carried on business in partnership.
the firm incurred huge losses and was dissolved in 1963.
kollayya 's son bala and bala 's son b.v.s. rao carried on joint hindu family business.
b.v.s. rao applied, being a minor, through his father bala, for registration which was granted by the sales tax authorities.
there after, sales tax authorities continued to make assessment in the name of b.v.s. rao from the year 1966 to the year 1969.
although b.v.s. rao informed the sales tax department that the business was in fact carried on by the joint hindu family yet no assessment was made in the name of joint hindu family until 1971.
although b.v.s. rao informed the sales tax department that his business had come to an end and that the business was carried, on by his grand father kollayya, yet the sales tax department neither cancelled the registration of b.v.s. rao nor issued fresh notice to kollayya.
in september, 1968, kollayya and narasimiah the partners of the dissolved firm executed a registered deed of trust by which certain properties were vested in the trustees for the purpose of paying off the creditors mentioned in the trust deed who had obtained decrees against the settlors.
in the year , 1971 assessments were made against the joint hindu family and penalties were also imposed for not paying the sales tax.
all the assessments prior to the year 1971, were made in the name of b.v.s. rao.
since the sales tax authorities could not recover the monies from the assessees they issued noticed under section 17(1? of the andhra pradesh general sales tax act to the appellants who were the trustees of the said trust on the ground that the trust was void and fraudulent.
a writ petition filed by the appellants in the high court for quashing the said notices was dismissed by the high court on the ground that the deed of trust was fraudulent and had been executed.
to defeat the sales tax dues.
on an appeal by special leave it was contended by the appellants: (1) the moment the trust deed was executed by kollayya and narasamaiah the title to those properties vested in the trustees and thus it was beyond tho reach of the sales tax department.
(2) when the impugned notice was issued in 1970, tax had not been quantified since the assessments were made subsequently.
lt was contended by the respondents that (1) kollayya must be deemed to have knowledge as the karta of the joint hindu family that he had incurred sales tax liability.
(2) under section 17(1) of the act.
the sales tax authorities could realise the sales tax dues even from the trustees and the execution of the trust deed would not stand in the way of the recoveries.
(3) the trust is hit by section 53 of the transfer of property act, being made with the intent to defeat or delay the creditors.
326 (4) the liability of the appellants arose as early as in 1966 67 and the trust deed came into existence in september, 1968.
kollayya and trustees, therefore, could not be unaware of the tax liability.
the creation of the trust subsequently was, therefore, a device to evade the payment of arrears of sales tax.
allowing the appeal by special leave, ^ held: (1) the sales tax department as also the high court have held in a very summary fashion that the trust deed was void and fraudulent without considering the real point of law which arose on the admitted facts.
[329 a] (2) the moment the trust deed was executed the trustees acquired an independent title under the trust.
the trust deed clearly mentioned the names of the creditors to whom the money was to be paid.
under the trust, the settlors did not reserve any advantage or benefit for themselves.
there is no material to how that the decrees obtained by the creditors were collusive and the trust deed was executed before the assessment orders against the joint family were made and, therefore.
there was no real debt due from the settlors when the trust was executed.
[329a d] (3) the present trust cannot be said to be unlawful within the meaning of section 4 of the indian trust act, 1882, since the trust is neither forbidden by law nor does it defeat any legal provision nor can it be said to be fraudulent ex facie.
[330d e] whether the trust deed has been executed with the intent to defeat or delay the creditors within the meaning of section 53(1) of the transfer of property act depends on the intention of the settlors depending mainly on the facts and circumstances of the case.
the mere preference of one creditor to another by itself does not lead to the irresistible inference that the intention was to defeat the other creditors.
[331c e] musahar sahu and another vs hakim lal and another l.r. 43 i.a. l04: ma pwa may and another vs section r. m. m. a. chettiar firm air 1929 p.c. 279, 281 and sampatrai chhogalalji and others vs v. section patel, sales tax officer and others 17 s.t.c. 2r9, 34, approved.
(4) once the trust is held to be valid the department cannot proceed against the trustees under section 17(1).
the section does not empower the sales tax department to follow the money in the hands of a bonafide transferee from the assessee even before the dues are accrued.
the sales tax authorities under section 17 can only determine the jurisdictional.
facts and cannot proceed beyond that.
the authorities cannot be a judge in its own cause and determine or decide complicated questions of.
title.
[333c e] katilkara chintamani dora & ors.
vs guntreddi annamanaidu & ors. ; followed.
in the present case the sales tax authorities cannot be allowed to hold that the deed of trust executed by the settlors was hit by section 53 of the transfer of property act.
even if a transfer is made with intent to defeat or delay the credit ors it is not void but only voidable under section 53.
if the transfer is voidable the sales tax authorities cannot ignore or disregard it but have to get it set aside through a properly instituted suit after impleading necessary parties and praying for the desired relief.
[333f g] chutterput singh & ors.
vs maharaj bahadoor and others l.r. 32 i.a. i and zafrul hasan and others vs farid ud din and others , approved.
(5) so long as the tax had not been assessed and quantified it could not be said that any specific debt due to the revenue from the assessee had come into existence.
the question of such a non existent debt, being a first charg on the property at the date of the execution of the trust deed did not arise.
[334e f]