the appellant and respondent no. 1 and other candidates contested the election from u.p. legislative assembly constituency (no. 293), sarsaul.
the appellant secured 23626 votes and respondent no. 1 polled 23604, the margin being of 22 votes only.
respondent no. 1 filed an election petition challenging the election of the appellant inter alia on the ground that the result of the election so far as the returned candidate was concerned was materially affected by improper reception and rejection of votes and mistakes in counting.
it was alleged that 41 ballot papers were rejected on the ground that the electors ' choice was expressed through the instrument meant for the presiding officer for stamping on the reverse side of the ballot papers.
the particulars of those ballot papers were given in schedule annexed to she election petition.
it was further alleged that some ballot papers were issued along with the counter foil and were therefore rejected.
the appellant in his written statement denied the allegations and stated that the result of the election was not materially affected.
respondent no. i did not adduce any evidence in support of his allegations mentioned above but made an application before the high court for scrutiny and recount of the ballot papers.
the high court allowed the application and directed scrutiny and recount of ballot papers on the following grounds: (a) the appellant woo by a very small margin of 22 votes (b) it was not disputed that a number of ballot papers were rejected because the polling staff forgot to detach the counter foils on a number of ballot papers.
(c) it is also the admitted case or the parties that a number of ballot papers were rejected because the voters cast their votes by putting their mark not with the marking instrument issued by the election commission but with the marking or stamping instrument issued for the use of the presiding officers.
(d) lt is clear from the petition, written statement and recriminatory petition filed by the respondent that both parties pleaded that there was wrong reception rejection and counting of votes.
the appellant filed an appeal by special leave against the said order of the appellate court.
allowing the appeal , ^ held : (1) the returned candidate had not categorically and specifically admitted the allegations made in the election petition with regard to the improper rejection of the ballot papers.
[195f g] (2) since the appellant did not admit the allegations, the court could not dispense with proof of those facts altogether.
[196a c] (3) the additional pleas set up in the written statements were irrelevant to beyond the scope of the enquiry into the allegations in the election petition falling under section 100(1)(d)(iii) of the representation of the people act, 1951.
these additional pleas were in the nature of recriminatory pleas 192 which could not be investigated in this election petition.
the scope of the enquiry is limited for the simple reason that what the clause requires to be considered is whether the election of the returned candidate has been materially affected and nothing else.
[197c f] (4) the pleas of the returned candidate under section 97 have to be tried after declaration has been made under section 100 of the act.
[197f g] the learned judge as in error in ordering general inspection and recount of the total votes polled at the election, merely because in these additional pleas the returned candidate also had by way of recrimination, complained of wrong reception and rejection of votes and wrong counting of votes.
[198b c] the high court failed to apply its mind to the question, whether if the facts alleged in the petition were assumed to be correct a prima facie case for improper rejection of the so ballot papers was made out.
rule 38 of the conduct of election rules, 1961, requires every ballot paper and the counter foil attached thereto to be, stamped on the back by the presiding officer with such distinguishing mark as the election commission might direct.
rule 56 requires every elector to whom ballot paper has been issued to maintain secrecy of voting and making a mark on the ballot paper with the instrument supplied the purpose by the election commission.
the object of these rules is to secure not only the secrecy of the ballot but also to eliminate chances of sharp practices in the conduct of election.
the requirements, are, therefore.
mandatory and a defect arising from their non observance inexorably entails rejection of the defective ballot papers.
[198d f; 199g h] the high court had to apply its mind as to whether these facts by themselves were sufficient to attract rule 56.
the high court had also to apply its mind as to whether the facts alleged in the petition, if correct, would fall within the mischief of rule 56.
[200b; 202a b] times out of number, this court has pointed out that a general scrutiny and recount of the ballot papers should not be lightly ordered.
before making such as extraordinary order, the court must be satisfied that all the material facts.
have been pleaded and proved and that such a course is imperatively necessary in the interests of justice.
in the present case.
there was no foundation in the petition for ordering a general recount.
nor could the additional pleas in the written statement of the returned candidate be taken into account for making an order for general inspection of the ballots [202c e] the order of the high court was set aside.
[203b] the high court was directed to decide the questions mentioned in this judgment and, thereafter, decided the application of the respondent no. 1 for recount of the specific ballot papers [203b e]