the appellant state government 's order no. 643 hte dated july 25, 1969 promoting certain professors was quashed by the high court of jammu & kashmir while allowing the writ petition no. 124/69 filed by the respondent.
leaving out the merits for decision by another bench of this court.
^ held : 1.
what clause (b) of sub section (2) of section 133 of the jammu & kashmir constitution requires is that the commission shall be consulted: (i) on the principles to be followed in making appointments to civil services and posts and in making promotions and transfers from one service to another and (ii) on the suitability of candidates for such appointments, promotions or transfers.
no other interpretation is really permissible on the plain language of the clause.
it is not provided by section 133 of the constitution that all the members of the commission should have interviewed all or any of the candidates, or that it was not permissible for the commission to entrust the selection to a committee consisting of only one of its members, so long as the commission reserved to itself the right to approve or disapprove the committee 's report and actually discharged that constitutional responsibility.
[872 f h, 874 b c] 2.
the question whether the requirement for consulting the commission is mandatory or not does not arise in this case.
[873 a].
the high court erred in holding that the commission was not consulted in the manner required by section 133 of the jammu & kashmir constitution and in regard to the principles to be followed in making the promotions to the posts of professors on the suitability of selected candidates for the promotions.
[873 b, 874 d e] on the facts which have been brought on the record it is established that (a) the commission was consulted in regard to the principles to be followed in making the promotions to the posts of professors as laid down in the "jammu & kashmir professors of colleges (selection) rules, 1969", and [873 c d].
(b) the commission was consulted on the suitability of the candidates for promotion as professors and the second requirement of clause (b) of sub section (2) of section 133 was also complied with, since the selection of the respondents (to the writ petition) was made on the recommendation of the public service commission after their names were sent strictly in order of seniority as per direction of the commission, after they had been interviewed and examined by the selection committee, formed and presided over by one of the members of the commission as chairman.
[873 f h, 874 a] 871