on september 30, 1978 the collector published the preliminary electoral roll under rule 4(1) of the madhya pradesh municipal corporation (preparation, revision and publication of electoral rolls and selection of councillors) rules, 1963 for the purpose of holding elections in december, 1978 to the municipal corporation, and also issued a notice under the said rule inviting claims or objections to be filed within twenty days from the date of publication of the notice.
a period of 30 days was however actually provided in the rule.
the final publication of the electoral roll was made on november 16, .1978.
after november 25, 1978 a large number of nominations were received by the returning officer arid the final list of candidates for the elections with their symbols was published on december 20, 1978 and the poll took place on december 31, 1978.
the appellants (petitioners 1, 5 and 6) along with some others in their writ petition filed on december 28, 1978 contended that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued by the collector under rule 4 (1) providing 20 days for preferring claims and objections while the rule prescribed 30 days and that by non compliance with this mandatory requirement, the entire election process held on the basis of the defective electoral roll, became a nullity and therefore the declaration of results of the successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
the high court held that the appellants were not entitled to any relief as they had approached the court after undue delay.
dismissing the appeals this court, ^ held: 1.
it is well settled that the power of the high court under article 226 of the constitution to issue an appropriate writ is discretionary and if the high court finds that there is no satisfactory explanation for the inordinate delay, it may reject the petition if it finds that the issue of writ will lead to public inconvenience and interference with rights of others.
this rule applies also to a case in which the validity of an election to a local authority is challenged.
the question whether in a given case.
the delay involved .
is such that it dissentients a person to relief .
under article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the high court which as in all matters of 492 discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
[497c d] 2.
if the appellants felt that the notice under rule 4(3) suffered from any illegality, they could have brought it to the notice of the collector immediately thereafter.
it was open them to move the state government under rule 6 of the rules to make an order directing the collector to follow the provisions governing the preparation or the electoral roll.
it was also open to them to file a writ petition immediately after the publication of the said notice questioning its legality.
none of the above courses was adopted by the appellants.
persons whole claims were rejected could have filed an appeal under rule 5 before the collector.
no such appeal was presented.
[495h 496b] 3.
it was only on december 5, 1978 for the first time a letter was addressed by one of the petitioners to the collector drawing his attention to the error that had crept into the notice under rule 4(1) of the rules.
by that time, the nominations had all been received.
the final list of candidates for the election with their symbols was published on december 20, 1978.
the writ petition itself was filed on december 28, 1978 when the poll had to take place on december 31, 1978.
no satisfactory explanation was given in the course of the petition by the petitioners as to why they delayed the filing;, of the petition till december 28, 1978, even though they knew that there was an error in the notice issued under rule 4(1).
[496c e]