the respondent a railway employee was proceeded against by the department for misconduct.
he did not respond to the 'show cause ' notice issued to him and when the disciplinary proceedings proceeded ex parte he filed a suit for a declaration of immunity and permanent injunction against further departmental action.
he also moved an application for an ad interim injunction to restrain the department from affecting his position in service by continuing the disciplinary enquiry and to continue to pay his full salary.
after hearing, the munsif directed that the respondent be placed in the same position that he held prior to the commencement of the departmental enquiry in the matter of pay, privileges and all other perquisites that he availed and enjoyed.
the department appealed against this order, and awaited the decision in the district court before implementing the direction for re instatement.
in the meanwhile the respondent filed an application under order 39 rule 2(3) of the code of civil procedure for disobedience of the injunction order.
the trial court finding that there was non compliance with the munsif 's order, directed 15 days time for compliance with the said order and on failure thereof, directed that the department shall be visited with the order of attachment of its property and its officers be sent to the civil jail.
an unsuccessful appeal and an unrewarding revision was the lot of the department.
the high court made an observation cum direction that as the munsif could not proceed with the proceedings for disobedience of the court 's order, it would be for the munsif concerned to name the officer concerned who is required to be sent to jail and to give details of the property to be attached, for the purpose of compelling compliance with the court 's order.
allowing the appeal to this court, ^ held :1. 1.
the high court was in error in leaving it to the trial court to designate the names when it actually issued the ministerial order to execute its decretal order.
nameless humans cannot be whisked off to prison even in the name of contempt by insertion of the name after the judgment is delivered 2.
a government servant of the union of india who had been removed from service for misconduct could not be reinstated with full back pay immediately the order was made by the court.
it had to be communicated to 299 various officers, orders had to be made at various levels, files had to move and notings made for gestation before implementation.
all this takes time and when the court order is eventually effectuated, the salary of the officer will, of course, have to be paid with effect from the original date of impugned threat of action.
to proceed to punish in haste without pausing to realise how government functions is not fair in this drastic jurisdiction where personal freedom is in peril.
[305 b d] 3.
the constitutional sanctity of liberty and protection of property will become chimerical and the processual law will hang limp if the substantive order is silent and identifying the offender is left over as a ministerial measure.
[304 f] 4.
where liberty and property are to be deprived it is fundamental that vagueness is a fatal vice even if the issuing authority be the court.
[302 g] in the instant case, the orders passed by the munsif and the high court keep identity of the key persons and properties in uncertainty.
for this reason alone, the orders are vulnerable against both the attachment of unspecified property and detention of unnamed contemners.
[304 c g] 5.
the law, in the area of contempt of court, must avoid the extremes of hyper reactivity to marginal indifference to judicial authority out of pragmatic difficulties.
[300 e] 6.
the fluid, yet valid, concept of contempt of court, keeps judges under the rule of law; for personal liberty is protected by a processual armour, even if its deprivation be the product of the judicial process.
[300 e] 7.
the contempt power should be kept sheathed and the sword should be drawn only sparingly if the court is convinced that there has been wilful defiance or disobedience.
[306 c] 8.
once there is clear evidence of active obedience, coupled with expression of regret, delayed though the compliance be due to the inevitable time lag induced by the paper logged procedures, the court may be clement.
[306 d]