the appellants were prosecuted for committing offences under section 16(1)(a)(i) read with section 7 of the .
after some evidence was led on behalf of the prosecution, plea bargaining took place between the prosecution, the accused and the magistrate.
the accused pleaded guilty which plea was accepted by the magistrate.
the accused were accordingly convicted and sentenced to undergo imprisonment till the rising of the court and to pay a small fine.
the high court initiated suo motu proceeding in revision.
the accused appeared and challenged the convictions recorded against them, but the high court did not go into the circumstances in which the plea of guilty was entered, enhanced the sentences imposed on them to three months ' simple imprisonment and fine.
allowing the appeals, ^ held: 1.
a conviction based on the plea of guilty entered by the accused as a result of plea bargaining cannot be sustained.
[1041e] 2.
the high court was clearly in error in not setting aside the conviction and sending the case back to the magistrate for trial in accordance with law, ignoring the plea of guilty entered by the appellants.
[1041f] 3.
the magistrate trying an accused for a serious offence like adulteration must apply his mind to the evidence recorded before him and, on the facts as they emerge from the evidence, decide whether the accused is guilty or not.
[1040b] in the instant case the magistrate had got a cyclostyled form of judgment in which merely blanks were filled in by him.
this clearly indicates that the magistrate was in the habit of encouraging plea bargaining and letting off the accused lightly if there was a plea of guilty, enabling quick disposal without any effort.
this was a highly reprehensible practice.
the high court had expressed strong disapproval of it.
[1039h 1040a] 4.
(i) it is highly regrettable that the prosecution as well as the magistrate should have been a party to any plea bargaining in a prosecution for adulteration involving the health and well being of the community.
adulteration has 1038 assumed alarming proportions and it is essential to wipe it out ruthlessly and completely by bringing to book offenders responsible for adulteration resulting in ruination of the health of the people.
the investigating agencies must intensify their efforts and catch hold of those who for private economic gain are prepared to jeopardize the health of the community.
when such persons are arraigned before the court and found guilty a deterrent and punitive sentence must be imposed upon them.
[1039e g] (ii) if it is possible to get away with a light sentence in respect of an offence of adulteration the anti adulteration law will cease to have any meaning and validity.
[1039h] 5.
administration of justice is a sacred task and partakes of the divine function.
it is with the greatest sense of responsibility and anxiety that the judicial officer must discharge his judicial function, particularly when it concerns the liberty of a persons.
[1040c] 6.
it would be contrary to public policy to allow a conviction to be recorded against an accused by inducing him to confess to a plea of guilty on an allurement being held out to him that if he enters a plea of guilty, he will be let off very lightly.
such a procedure would be clearly unreasonable, unfair and unjust and would be violative of article 21 of the constitution.
it would have the effect of polluting the pure fount of justice because it might induce an innocent accused to plead guilty to suffer a light and inconsequential punishment rather than go through a long and ardous criminal trial.
the judge also might be likely to be defected from the path of duty to do justice and he might either convict an innocent accused by accepting the plea of guilty or let of a guilty accused with a light sentence, thus, subverting the process of low and frustrating the social objective and purpose of the anti adulteration statute.
this practice would also tend to encourage corruption and collusion and as a direct consequence, contribute to the lowering of the standard of justice.
[1041b e]