allowing the appeal by special leave, the court, ^ held: (1) a finding of existence of breach of the peace is not necessary at the time when a final order is passed nor is there any provision in the code of criminal procedure requiring such a finding in the final order.
once a preliminary order drawn up by the magistrate sets out the reasons for holding that a breach of the peace exists, it is not necessary that the breach of peace should continue at every stage of the proceeding unless there is clear evidence to show that the dispute has ceased to exist so as to bring the case within the ambit of sub section (5) of section 145 of the code of criminal procedure.
unless such a contingency arises the proceedings have to be carried to their logical end culminating in the final order under sub section
(6) of section 145.
further, it is well settled that under section 145 it is for the magistrate to be satisfied regarding the existence of a breach of the peace and once he records his satisfaction in the preliminary order, the high court in revision cannot go into the sufficiency or otherwise of the materials on the basis of which the satisfaction of the magistrate is based.
[94c f] r. h. bhutani vs miss mani j. desai & ors., ; , followed.
hari ram & ors.
vs banwari lal & ors., a.i.r. 1967 punjab 378; ramarao vs shivram & ors., a.i.r. 1954 hyderabad p. 93, approved.
(2) mere absence of a finding of the existence of breach of the peace by the magistrate in the final order in the circumstances of the case cannot be such a manifest defect so as to attract the extraordinary jurisdiction of the high court under section 482 of the criminal procedure code.
[94b] (3) at the worst the omission on the part of the magistrate to mention in his final order that there was breach of the peace could be said to be an error of procedure clearly falling within the domain of a curable irregularity which is not sufficient to vitiate the order passed by the magistrate, particularly when there is nothing to show, in the instant case, that any prejudice was caused to any of the parties who had the full opportunity to produce their evidence before the court.
[95b c]