on a complaint by the complainant that the appellant, armed with a revolver and accompanied by two persons, trespassed into his house and threatened to kill him, the magistrate ordered investigation by the police under section 156(3) of the code of criminal procedure.
in their report under section 173 the police stated that the complaint was false in that on the date and time mentioned therein, the appellant was at a different place far away from the place where the complainant alleged that the appellant had threatened to kill him.
disagreeing with the conclusion of the police the magistrate took cognizance of the case under sections 448, 451 and 506 i.p.c. and directed the issue of process to the appellant.
the appellant 's petition seeking to quash the proceedings before the magistrate was dismissed by the high court.
in appeal to this court, it was contended on behalf of the appellant that the magistrate was not competent to take cognizance of the case as if it was upon a police report since the report under section 173 by the police did not disclose any offence having been committed by the appellant.
dismissing the appeal ^ held: where the magistrate, on receiving a complaint orders investigation under section 156(3) and receives a report under section 173 to the effect that no offence was disclosed against the accused, the magistrate might either (i) decide that there is no sufficient ground for proceeding further and drop action or (ii) he may take cognizance of the offence under section 190(1)(b) and issue process without being bound in any manner by the conclusion of the police or (iii) he may take cognizance of the offence under section 190(1)(a) on the basis of the original complaint and proceed to examine upon oath the complainant and his witnesses under section 200.
if he adopts the third alternative, he may hold or direct an enquiry under section 202 if he thinks fit.
thereafter he may dismiss the complaint or issue process as the case may be.
[940e g] in any event, it is impossible to say that the magistrate, who takes cognizance of an offence on the basis of the facts disclosed in the police report, 936 must be said to have taken cognizance of the offence "on suspicion" and not upon police report, merely because he and the police arrived at different conclusions from the facts.
the magistrate is not bound by the conclusions of the police: if he ignores their conclusions and takes cognizance of the offence himself, he does so upon the facts disclosed by the police report though not on the conclusions arrived at by them.
in such a case, it cannot be said that he was taking cognizance "on suspicion".
[942e h] in abhinandan jha & ors.
vs dinesh mishra ; , where this court stated that the magistrate could take cognizance of the offence under section 190(1)(c) notwithstanding the contrary opinion of the police, the reference to sub clause (c) therein was a mistake for sub clause (b).
the argument of the appellant that the court, in this case, had apparently taken the view that the magistrate could take cognizance of the offence not under section 190 (1)(b) as if it was a police report but under section 190(1)(c) as if it was "on suspicion" is not sustainable, because section 190(1)(c) was never intended to apply to cases where there was a police report under section 173(1).
[942c d]