there are six medical colleges in madhya pradesh.
admission to the first year of m.b.b.s. course is on the basis of the qualifying examination.
there were 720 seats in those six colleges in the year 1979 80.
under rule 7 reservations are made for certain categories.
one such is for the sons and daughters of military personnel of madhya pradesh and 21 seats in all were reserved for that category.
under rule 20, the qualifying marks to be obtained by candidates other than scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, shall be 50 per cent in the aggregate and 33 per cent in each of the subjects.
in case the required number of candidates for admission are not available, according to the above percentage of qualifying marks, the board conducting the pre medical examinations under rule 2 shall have power to lower the marks up to 5 per cent in the aggregate for all categories of candidates.
under rule 9, in case sufficient number of candidates do not qualify for admission under any reserved category and any seats remain vacant, such vacant seats shall be filled by preparing a combined merit list of all the remaining categories of candidates on the waiting list and the candidates shall be admitted according to merit in the list so prepared.
the appellant who was a son of a military personnel got only 43.6 per cent of marks in the aggregate, and he could not get a seat under the reserved category even after the marks were lowered to 45 per cent under note 1 to rule 20 by the board.
even after that was done, 7 seats remained vacant out of 21 seats reserved for the sons and daughters of military personnel.
on 10 3 1980, the government by an executive order reduced the minimum aggregate to 43 per cent.
the board, prepared a combined list under rule 9 and applying the minimum of 43 per cent granted admission, as per that list, and refused admission to the appellant.
the question arose whether the selection should be based on the combined list prepared under rule 9 or on taking 43 per cont as the qualifying marks in the aggregate.
187 allowing the appeal by special leave, the court, ^ held: since the minimum qualifying marks were reduced to 43 per cent by an executive order without any provision therefor in the statutory rules, rule 9 of the statutory rules could not be applied at that stage, and the appellant who had secured 43.6 per cent of marks in the aggregate should have been admitted in the category to which he belonged the difference between 45 per cent in the aggregate, to which the minimum qualifying marks were reduced under note (1) to rule 20 and 43.6 per cent of marks in the aggregate secured by the appellant is so little that it could not be a valid or sufficient reason for giving a go bye, on the ground of merit, to the reservation provided for in rule 7 of the rules.
[194 g h, 195 a b]