the appellants were charged under section 302134 i.p.c. for murdering the husband of p.w. 2 when he was lying on a cot inside a hut and the p.w. 2 was sitting outside.
the trial court disbelieved the case of prosecution that p.w. 2 was an eye witness of the occurrence.
the trial court held that the details of the incident given by p.w. 2 were imaginary or improbable and, therefore, unbelievable; there was several contradictions in her evidence which could not be accepted without any further corroboration and the evidence of certain other prosecution witnesses could not be safely relied an as furnishing corroboration to the statement of p.w. 2 in view of the several instances narrated in its judgment.
the evidence of the doctor who conducted postmortem examination of the body of the deceased was that the death of the deceased could not have taken place soon after the dinner as he did not find any food particles in the stomach and small intestines of the deceased the trial court observed that the evidence of p.w. 2 that she had served food for the deceased at about 8.30 p.m. could not be accepted as probable as the fatal assault had taken place at about 9 p.m.
there was a delay of nearly 24 hours in giving the information to the police out post.
the evidence for motive also was found to be discrepant .
accordingly the trial court acquitted the appellants.
on appeal the high court reversed the judgment of acquittal, convicted the appellants and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life.
the high court severely criticised the evidence of the doctor observing that, "our impression is that he hardly knows what he is talking about and what is extraordinary is that the less he knows the more assertive he is, no reliance what so ever can be placed on such evidence and no conclusion can be drawn either adverse or in favour of the prosecution from the opinion evidence of such a poorly qualified medical witness".
allowing the appeal, 269 ^ held: there is no doubt that even where there is only a sole eye witness of a crime, a conviction may be recorded against the accused concerned a provided the court which hears such witness regards him as honest and truthful.
but prudence requires that some corroboration should be sought from the other prosecution evidence in support of the testimony of a solitary witness particularly where such witness also happens to be closely related to the deceased and the accused are those against whom some motive or ill will is suggested.
[276 g h] in the instant case a careful analysis of the evidence relating to the inordinate delay involved in the giving of the first information to the police and the other inherent inconsistencies in the evidence of the sole eye witness shows that her evidence cannot be considered as sufficient to find the accused guilty.
the first information (exh. p. 10) itself appears to be one prepared after some deliberation.
the motive suggested by the prosecution does not appear to be strong enough for the accused joining together to commit the murder of the deceased [276 h, 277 a, 275 c] while there is no doubt that the jurisdiction of an appellate court is coextensive with that of the trial court, in the case of an appeal against a judgment of acquittal it cannot totally brush aside the appreciation of the evidence by the trial court.
the reasons for reversing a judgment of acquittal d should be cogent and if two views are reasonably possible, the appellate court should be slow in interfering with the judgment of the trial court, even if it is possible for it to take a different view after a process of laborious reasoning.
[277 g h, 278 a] in the instant case the high court has not bestowed due care or, the principles governing its jurisdiction.
there is no proper discussion ill the judgment of the high court about the various versions in the prosecution evidence about the giving of the first information to the police in their true perspective.
the high court has over simplified this issue and has observed.
"in this case, bearing in mind the place where the incident occurred, we find no unreasonable delay in reporting the incident to the police out post at molgi and subsequently in giving the complaint at the dhadgaon police station".
it may be noted that the distance between molgi and the village of the deceased was hardly three miles but the 'khabar ' reached the molgi police out post, according to the prosecution nearly 24 hours after the incident.
the reason given by the prosecution for this inordinate delay, that p.w. 2 did not want the information to be lodged with the police until the arrival of her son p.w. i, is hardly convincing since there are several different versions about the lodging of the information with the police out post and the earlier versions of the crime said to have been given by p.w. 2 which were in writing appear to have been suppressed.
this important aspect of the case has been overlooked by the high court.
it would be unsafe to act upon the evidence of p.w. 2 and convict the appellants.
[277 g, 278 a c, 274 f g, 279 a] the comment by the high court on the evidence of the doctor appears to be more severe than what it should have been particularly when his opinion that 'it was possible that the death in this particular case was instantaneous, is not seriously challenged.
[278 g hl 270