respondent was an orthopaedic surgeon in the u.h.m. hospital and was incharge of the orthopaedic department.
he was allotted an official residence within the campus of the hospital and as per the prevailing rules he was permitted consultation practice at his residence, he was found guilty of demanding and accepting illegal gratification from the father of a patient under his treatment at the hospital and was convicted for an offence under section 5(1) (d) of the prevention of corruption act, 1947 and for an offence under section 161 of the penal code by the special judge, kanpur.
consequently he was sentenced to undergo to two years ' rigorous imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs.5,000 (in default to undergo 4 months ' r.i.) the appeal preferred by the convict was allowed and the order of conviction and sentence was set aside by the high court.
hence the appeal by state, by special leave.
allowing the appeal, restoring the finding of guilt, and order of conviction, but modifying the sentence, the court, ^ held: (1) only in exceptional cases and in the peculiar facts and circumstances of a case, the supreme court would be obliged, as in the instant case, to undertake upon itself the function of appreciation of evidence, which function properly falls within the sphere of the high court in its capacity as the appellate court.
here, the high court resorted to surmises and conjectures for which there was not the slightest basis.
the high court failed to undertake the exercise of scrutinising, and making assessment of the evidence and failed to record a finding of fact in after considering the question of reliability and credibility of the witnesses and weighing the probabilities in the context of the circumstantial evidence.
[996 b e] 2:1.
by and large a citizen is somewhat reluctant, rather than anxious, to complain to the vigilance department and to have a trap arranged even if 994 illegal gratification is demanded by a government servant.
there are numerous reasons for the reluctance.
in the first place, he has to make a number of visits to the office of vigilance department and to wait on a number of officers.
he has to provide his own currency notes for arranging a trap.
he has to comply with several formalities.
he has to accompany the officers and participants of the raiding party.
all the while he has to remain away from his job, work, or avocation.
he has to sacrifice his time and effort whilst doing so.
thereafter, he has to attend the court at the time of the trial from day to day.
he has to withstand the searching cross examination by the defence counsel as if he himself is guilty of some fault.
in the result, a citizen who has been harassed by a government officer, has to face the humiliation of being considered as a person who tried to falsely implicate a government servant, not to speak of facing the wrath of the government servants of the department concerned in his future dealings with the department.
no one would therefore be too keen or too anxious to face such an ordeal.
ordinarily, it is only when a citizen feels oppressed by a feeling of being wronged and finds the situation to be beyond endurance, that he adopts the course of approaching the vigilance department for laying a trap.
his evidence cannot therefore be easily or lightly brushed aside.
[1001 e h; 1002 a b] 2:3.
of course, it cannot be gain said that it does not mean that the court should be oblivious of the need for caution and circumspection bearing in mind that one can conceive of cases where an honest or strict government official may be falsely implicated by a vindictive person to whose demand, for showing favours, or for according a special treatment by giving a go bye to the rules, the official refuses to yield.
[1002 b c] 3:1.
the evidence of a police officer cannot be brushed aside as that of an interested witness.
that he has an interest is true only to an extent a very limited extent.
he is interested in the success of the trap to ensure that a citizen, who complains of harassment by a government officer making a demand for illegal gratification, is protected and the role of his department in the protection of such citizens is vindicated.
perhaps it can be contended that he is interested in the success of the trap so that his ego is satisfied or that he earns a feather in his cap.
at the same time it must be realised that it is not frequently that a police officer, himself being a government servant, would resort to perjury and concoct evidence in order to rope in an innocent government servant.
in the event of the government servant concerned refusing to accept the currency notes offered by the complainant, it would not be reasonable to expect the police officer to go to the length of concocting a false seizure memo for prosecuting and humiliating him merely in order to save the face of the complainant, thereby compromising his own conscience.
the court may therefore, depending on the circumstances of a case, feels safe in accepting the prosecution version on the basis of the oral evidence of the complainant and the police officers even if the trap witnesses turn hostile or are found not to be independent.
when therefore besides such evidence there is circumstantial evidence which is consistent with the guilt of the accused and not consistent with his innocence, there should be no difficulty in upholding the prosecution case.
the present appears to be a case of that nature.[1002 d h] 995 3:2.
in the instant case, taking an overall view of the evidence of pw 1, pw 2, pw 3 and the circumstantial evidence, it is not possible to believe that the raid proved abortive and yet everyone conspired together in order to falsely rope in the respondent.
[1009 f]