the appellant, in his capacity as a dealer of beedies and as the constituted attorney of the firm manufacturing a particular brand of beedies, filed a complaint alleging commission of offences by the respondents under sections 78 and 79 of the and section 420, i.p.c. the magistrate, after a preliminary inquiry, directed issue of process to the respondents but the same was quashed in revision by the high court on a technical ground and the magistrate was directed to consider the question of issue of process afresh.
the magistrate re heard the matter and dismissed the complaint on the ground that the appellant was not competent to file the complaint against the respondents as he was not the registered owner of the trade mark in question.
the appellant approached this court after the revision petition filed by him was dismissed in limine by the high court.
allowing the appeal, held: anyone can set the criminal law in motion by filing a complaint of facts constituting an offence before a magistrate entitled to take cognizance under section 190 of the code of criminal procedure, 1973 and unless any statutory provision prescribes any special qualification or eligibility criteria for putting the criminal law in motion, no court can decline to take cognizance on the sole ground that the complainant was not competent to file the complaint.
section 190 of the code clearly indicates that the qualification of the complainant to file a complaint is not relevant.
[181 h; 182 a b] (b) section 4, cr.
p.c. provides for trial of offences under the penal code and other laws.
sub section
(1) of section 4 deals with offences under the penal code.
sub section
(2) of section 4 provides that all offences under any other law shall be investigated, inquired into, tried and otherwise dealt with according to the same provisions, but subject to any enactment for the time being in force regulating the manner or place of investigating, inquiring into, trying or otherwise dealing with such offences.
from a combined reading of section 4(2) with section 190, it transpires that upon a complaint being filed by a person, setting out 177 facts therein which constitute the offence, before a magistrate specified in section 190, the magistrate will be competent to take cognizance of the offence irrespective of the qualifications or eligibility of the complainant to file the complaint.
[179 h; 180 a b; h; 181 a] (c) section 89 of the provides that no court shall take cognizance of an offence under section 81, 82 or 83 except on a complaint in writing made by the registrar or any officer authorised by him in writing.
this provision manifests the legislative intention that in respect of the three specified offences punishable under sections 81, 82 and 83, the registrar alone is competent to file the complaint.
this would show that in respect of other offences under the act the provision contained in section 190, cr.
p.c. read with sub section
(2) of section 4 thereof would permit anyone to file the complaint.
the indication to the contrary as envisaged by sub section
(2) of section 4 is to be found in section 89 of the act and that section does not prescribe any particular eligibility criterion or qualification for filing a complaint for contravention of sections 78 and 79 of the act.
[182 e g] (d) even otherwise, in the absence of a specific qualification, if the person complaining has a subsisting interest in the protection of the registered trademark, his complaint cannot be rejected on the ground that he had no cause of action or sufficient subsisting interest to file the complaint.
in the instant case the appellant who was the complainant was not only a dealer in the beedies manufactured and sold by the registered owner of the trade mark but also its constituted attorney.
[182 h; 183 a b] (e) even with regard to offences under the penal code, ordinarily, anyone can set the criminal law in motion but the various provisions in chapter xiv, cr.
p.c. prescribes the qualification of the complainant which would enable him or her to file a complaint in respect of specified offences and no court can take cognizance of such offence unless the complainant satisfies the eligibility criterion; but, in the absence of any such specification no court can throw out the complaint or decline to take cognizance on the sole ground that the complainant was not competent to file the complaint.
[182 c d]