section 49 of the provided for the sale of electricity by the electricity board to any person not being a licensee and to frame uniform tariffs for the purposes of such supply having regard, inter alia, to the nature of the supply, the purpose for which the supply is required and other relevant factors, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 49 of the act, the respondent bihar state electricity board had classified the consumers into ten categories and had been, from time to time, issuing notifications fixing the tariff and the terms and conditions for the supply of electricity to those consumers.
with a view to encouraging the establishment of industries in the state, the general tariff rate applicable in respect of high tension supply to industries and factories had been fixed at rates which were much lower when compared to those applicable to other types of consumers.
on 6.4.1979 the respondent board, in supersession of its earlier notification fixing the tariff, issued a notification revising the tariff for all categories of consumers served by it.
para 16.7 of the said tariff notification provided that the consumers of low tension industrial service, high tension service, extra high tension service, and railway traction service shall be liable to pay fuel surcharge ' at a rate to be determined every year in accordance with the formula set out in sub para 2 of that paragraph.
the appellants who had entered into agreements with the respondent board for the supply of high tension electric current for their factories and were admittedly not licensees, filed writ petitions in the high court challenging the levy of fuel surcharge on the ground that it was arbitrary and devoid of legal sanction.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the writ petitions.
hence these appeals and special leave petitions.
the appellants ' charge of discrimination was based on the ground that only consumers of low tension industrial service high tension service, extra high tension service, and railway traction service had been singled out for being subjected to a levy of surcharge, while consumers of electricity for domestic, commercial and irrigation purposes were left unaffected by any such burden.
dismissing the appeals and special leave petitions, ^ held; it is well established that where a corporation is an instrumentality or an agency of government it would, in the exercise of its powers and function, 60 be subject to the same constitutional or public law limitations as apply to the government and the principle of law inhibiting arbitrary action by government would apply equally where such a corporation is dealing with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into relationship with any person in any manner it likes according to its sweet will.
the acts of such a corporation must be in conformity with some principle which meets the test of reasonableness and relevance.
[71 f h] the contention that the imposition of fuel surcharge under paragraph 16.7 of the 1979 tariff notification is arbitrary and violative of article 14 of the constitution has no force.
the board was perfectly within its rights in deciding to restrict the levy of fuel surcharge to those categories of consumers who were enjoying the benefit of a concession in the general rate and in sparing smaller type of consumers such as the agricultural irrigation and commercial consumers from being subjected to that burden, in view of the fact that they were already being subjected to a basic levy at substantially higher rates.
the true consequence of the action taken by the board is only to effect a reduction in the quantum of concession that was being enjoyed by the consumers belonging to the industrial and railway traction categories.
the appellants had no case that any illegality was involved in treating the industrial consumers, as a separate class and granting them the benefit of a preferential treatment for the purpose of fixing the basic rate of levy for supply of electricity.
a classification which is legally valid and permissible for the grant of a concession in the basic rates will equally hold good for the purpose of a subsequent scheme of distribution of the burden in the form of fuel surcharge.
a classification of these bulk consumers has a rational nexus with the object and purposes of the levy of surcharge.
[65 g, 67 b d, 66 g, 67 d f] the argument that levy of fuel surcharge can only be for the purpose of recouping the amounts actually paid by the board by way of 'fuel surcharge ' to the d.v.c. and the u.p. state electricity board for the quantities of energy purchased by the board from these sources and the extra cost that the board had actually to incur on fuel consumed in those two generating stations at patratu and barauni has no force.
from the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the board, it is seen that in respect of the increase in the cost of production of electricity in the two generating stations of the board, the fuel surcharge has taken into account only that part of the increase in cost which is relatable to the increased price of the coal and oil i.e. fuel alone.
in respect of the energies purchased by the board from outside sources, namely, the damodar valley corporation and the u.p. state electricity board, the increase in cost per unit incurred by the board has been included in the computation of the fuel surcharge.
though the nomenclature given to the levy is "fuel surcharge" it is really a surcharge levied to meet the increased cost of generation and purchase of electricity and this is made absolutely clearly in the formula given in para 16.7.2.
[67 h, 68 a f] there is no force in the contention that the words "increase in the average unit rate of purchase of energy" used in c1 below paragraph 16.7.2 should be interpreted as taking their colour from the contents of paragraph 16.7.3.
from a reading of these provisions it is abundantly clear that the entire increase in costs incurred in the purchase of energy from the d.v.c. and the u.p. state 61 electricity board has to go into the computation of the surcharge leviable under paragraph 16.7.
there is no ambiguity whatever in the words used in cl so as to require the court to take light from paragraph 16.7.3 for the purpose of understanding their scope and meaning.
[69 b d] the contention that the financial capacity of individual industrial consumers had not been taken into account while fixing the revised tariff is devoid of force.
it is not contemplated by section 49 or any of the other provisions of the act.
that as amongst consumers tailing within a specified category different rates are to be charged depending upon the financial capacity of the particular consumer to pay.
on the other hand, the very core of the scheme of section 49 is that the tariff should be uniform in respect of each class or category.
[70 h, 71 a b] it is found that notwithstanding the mandatory provision contained in s.59 of the act obliging the board to carry its operations and adjust its tariffs in such a way as to ensure that the total revenues earned in any year of amount shall, after meeting all expenses properly chargeable to revenue leave, such surplus as the state government may, from time to time, specify, the board has been selling energy at rates which are lower than the actual post insured by it per unit of production.
such being the factual situation, there is absolutely no basis for the contention that the tariff fixation effected by the board suffers from the vice of arbitrariness and is liable to be interfered with by the court on that ground.
[73 b, 72 a c, 73 c]