the respondents filed a writ petition in the high court of calcutta against an order made under clause 8 b of the import control order 1955, in respect of a consignment of beef tallow which arrived at the calcutta port.
a single judge issued a rule and granted an interim order restraining the union of india and the chief controller of imports and exports from filing any criminal complaint against the respondent firm or its directors and also a direction to permit the respondents to re export the consignment of tallow.
an application was made by the union of india to vacate the interim order.
in the meanwhile the respondents sent letters and telegrams to the department intimating that the interim order of the high court had not been obeyed, and threatening action for contempt of court.
an application to commit the chief controller of imports and exports, and others for contempt of court was filed by the company.
over ruling the request made on behalf of the department to vacate the interim order, the court issued a rule in the application for contempt and directed the department officials to appear in person.
being aggrieved by the order, the department filed a special leave petition against the interim order and the rule for contempt.
allowing the appeal, vacating the interim order and quashing the rule for contempt of court; ^ held: 1.
writ petitions are often deliberately filed in distant high courts, as part of a manoeuvre in a legal battle, so as to render it difficult for 343 the officials at delhi to move applications to vacate stay where it becomes necessary to file such applications.
an inevitable result of the filing of writ petitions elsewhere than at the place where the concerned offices and the relevant records are located is to delay prompt return and contest.
[345b c, a] in the instant case the writ petition was filed in the calcutta high court when the office of the company is in the state of punjab and all the principal respondents are in delhi.
a statutory order such as the one under clause 8 b of the import control order purports to be made in the public interest and unless there are even stronger grounds of public interest an ex parte interim order will not be justified.
the only appropriate order to make in such cases is to issue notice to the respondents and make it returnable within a short period.
this should particularly be so where the offices of the principal respondents and relevant records lie outside the ordinary jurisdiction of the court.
to grant interim relief straight away and leave it to the respondents to have the interim order vacated may jeopardise the public interest.
[346g 347a] 3.
if an interim order is once made by a court, parties employ every device and tactic to ward off the final hearing of the application.
it is therefore, necessary for the courts to be circumspect in the matter of granting interim relief, more particularly so where the interim relief is directed against.
orders or actions of public officials acting in discharge of their public duty and in exercise of statutory powers.
[347b] in the instant case, no interim relief should have been granted by the high court.
the interim order is of a drastic character with a great potential for mischief and has the effect of practically allowing the writ petition at the stage of admission without hearing the opposite parties.
[347c, 346d] 4.
the application to commit the authorities for contempt of court appears to be a device to exact licences from them.
[349b] in the instant case, the stay of the operation of the 'abeyance ' order merely meant that the writ petitioners were entitled to have their applications disposed of by the concerned authorities.
the high court not having set any limit of time for the disposal of the applications, it was not for the writ petitioners to impose a time limit and demand that their applications should be disposed of forthwith.
if the writ petitioners were aggrieved by the failure of the authorities to dispose of their applications expeditiously, it was open to them to seek a further direction from the court fixing a limit of time within which the applications were to be disposed of.
[348g 349a] 344