the appellant was employed in a public sector undertaking.
he was dismissed on charges of misconduct consisting of absence from duty, falsification of entries in the registers destruction of records etc.
since an industrial dispute was pending before the labour court between the management and its workman an application was filed by the management under section 33(2) (b) of the seeking approval of the labour court to the order of dismissal passed against the appellant.
the decision of the application was partly in favour of the appellant and partly against him.
the labour court held: (1) that the domestic inquiry was invalid because the chief medical officer was neither competent to issue the charge sheet nor to constitute the enquiry committee which held the appellant guilty of the charges framed against him, and (2) that the management should be given an opportunity to adduce evidence to justify the order of dismissal.
the appellant filed a writ petition against the latter part of the court 's order contending that the management should not be allowed to lead evidence to justify the order of dismissal.
the management on the other hand filed a writ petition against the former part of the order of the labour court by which it held that the enquiry was vitiated.
the high court dismissed both the writ petitions.
545 the management filed an appeal in this court complaining of the finding of the high court that it was not competent for the chief medical officer to charge sheet the appellant or to constitute the enquiry committee.
the appeal was, however, dismissed and the findings of the labour court and the high court that the enquiry which resulted in the dismissal of the appellant was vitiated, was upheld.
after the disposal of the above appeal, the labour court resumed hearing of the matter and allowed the management to lead evidence in order to justify the order of dismissal.
the appellant filed an application objection to the management leading evidence but that application was dismissed.
the writ petition filed by the appellant in the high court was also dismissed.
in the appeal to this court, it was contended on behalf of the appellant workman that the employer did not ask for an opportunity to lead evidence to justify the order of dismissal and that the labour court gave that opportunity on its own accord and that it was open to him to argue even at this stage that the labour court ought not to have passed the particular order.
dismissing the appeal, ^ held: 1.
(i) in a proceeding under section 33(2) (b) of the it is open to the employer to lead evidence to justify the order passed against the employee.
[548e] (ii) in passing the order allowing the employers to lead evidence, the labour court cannot be said to have acted without jurisdiction.
[553e] delhi cloth and general mills co. vs ludh budh singh ; and shankar chakravarti vs britannia biscuit co.ltd. ; , referred to.
in the instant case, the employers who are respondent no. 2 filed an application under section 33(2) (b) of the act, asking for the approval of the labour court to the order of dismissal which was passed against the appellant.
by that application, they did not ask alternatively for an opportunity to lead evidence to justify the order of dismissal.
the tenor of the judgment of the labour court shows that, in all probability an oral request for permission to adduce evidence was made by the employers to the labour court when the hearing of the said application was coming to a close.
the contention of the appellant that the employers did not ask for such an opportunity and that the labour court gave them that opportunity on its own accord, is farfetched and cannot be accepted.
[550e g] 2.
a question of law which does not require a fresh investigation into facts may be allowed to be raised at a later stage of the proceedings but that is subject to the qualification that question is not concluded by a decision between the same parties.
[552f] 546 chitturi subbanna vs kudappapa subbanna, ; , referred to.
in the instant case, the question as to whether the labour court was right in giving an opportunity to the employers to lead evidence, is not being raised by the appellant for the first time in this court.
it was raised in the writ petition filed in the high court.[552g] 3.
in so far as questions of facts are concerned, the court is not concerned with the correctness or otherwise of the earlier judgment while determining the application of the rule of res judicata.
where however, the question is purely of law and relates to the jurisdiction of the court or where the decision of the court sanctions something which is illegal the party affected by that decision will not be precluded by the rule of res judicata from challenging the validity of the earlier decision.
the reason is, that a rule of procedure cannot supersede the law of the land.
[552d e] 4.
if an erroneous decision on a question of law is rendered by a court by assuming jurisdiction which it does not possess, its decision cannot operate as res judicata even between the same parties.
[553a] mathura prasad bajoo jaiwal vs dassibal n.b. jeejeebohoy, [1970]3 s.c.r. 830, referred to.
in the instant case the labour court had the jurisdiction to decide whether to allow the employers to lead evidence or not.
it may have acted irregularly in the exercise of that jurisdiction but that is to be distinguished from cases in which the court inherently lacks the jurisdiction to entertain a proceeding or to pass a particular order.
what seems to have happened is that the application filed by the employers under section 33(2) (b) was taken up for consideration first.
when the hearing of that application was nearing completion, but before the final orders were passed therein, the employers asked for an opportunity to lead evidence to justify the order of dismissal.
the labour court disposed of both the matters together by a common judgment.
it held by one and the same order that the departmental inquiry was vitiated but that the employers should be allowed to lead evidence to justify the order of dismissal.
[553b; d e]