the question was whether the expression 'wages ' as defined in section 2 (22) of the includes 'house ' rent allowance ', night shift allowance ' 'heat, gas and dust allowance ' and 'incentive allowance ' paid by an employer to his employees, ^ held: by the court 1.
is a piece of social welfare legislation.
the definition of 'wages ' is designedly wide.
the definition on its plain reading is clear and unambiguous.
even if there is any ambiguity, the expression has to be given a liberal interpretation and receive beneficent construction.[714c] 2.
'wages ' as defined in section 2 (22) of the must necessarily include 'house rent allowance ', 'night shift allowance ', 'heat, gas and dust allowance ' and 'incentive allowance '.
[715c] braithwaite & co. (india) ltd. vs the employees ' state insurance corporation, [1968]1 s.c.r. 771, referred to n.g.e.f. ltd. vs deputy regional director, e.s.i.c., bangalore, and employees ' state insurance corporation, hyderabad vs andhra pradesh paper mills ltd., rajahamundry, , approved.
bengal potteries ltd. vs regional director, w. bengal region, employees 713 state insurance corporation and others, [1973] lab.
i.c. 1328 (v , over ruled.
per chinnappa reddy, j. wages as defined in section 2 (22) of the act includes not only remuneration paid or payable under the terms of the contract of employment, express or implied but further extends to other additional remuneration, if any paid at intervals not exceeding two months, though outside the terms of employment.
[714g] 'remuneration ' under the first clause has to be under a contract of employment, express or implied while 'remuneration ' under the third clause need not be under the contract of employment but may be any 'additional remuneration ' outside the contract of employment, [715b] per amarendra nath sen, j.
the inclusive part and the exclusive portion in the definition of 'wages ' in section 2 (22) clearly indicate that the expression 'wages ' has been given a very wide meaning.
the inclusive part of the definition read with the exclusive part in the definition clearly shows that the inclusive portion is not intended to be limited only to the items mentioned therein.
taking into consideration the excluding part in the definition and reading the definition as a whole the inclusive part, is only illustrative and tends to express the wide meaning and import of the word 'wages '.
[717h; 718a b]