the respondent firm was engaged in the manufacturing of matches.
the inspector of the employees state insurance corporation who inspected the firm found that there were 18 regular employees and three of the partners worked regularly for wages.
as the number of employees were over 20 he held that the respondent firm incurred liability for contribution under the .
the respondent challenged its liability before the employees insurance court by contending that partners were not employees and that when the three partners were excluded, the total number of employees did not exceed the statutory minimum.
the insurance court found in favour of the respondent.
the employees state insurance corporation appealed to.
the high court, which held following its earlier decision in regional director of e.s.i. corporation vs mls.
oosmalua tiite works, alwayes i.l.r. 1975(2) kerala 201 that partners were not employees.
in the appeal to this court on the question whether a partner of a firm is an "employee 'l within the meaning of section 2(9) of the , h 120 dismissinhe appeal, ^ held: 1.
the three partners were not employees.
on this admitted fact the total number of employees would be less than 20.
the would not therefore be applicable to the respondent establishment.
[128c] 2.
the term 'employee ' has been defined in section 2(9) of the to mean any person employed for wages in or in connection with the work of a factory or establishment to which the act applies. ".
wages") has been defined in sub section (22) of that section to mean all remuneration paid or payable, in cash to an employee, if the terms of the contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled. ".
in order that some one may be an employee within the meaning of the act, he has to be employed for wages.
the concept of wages would bring in the contract of employment, and the concept of employee would take with it the correlation of the employer.
the term 'employer ' has not been defined in the act.
in the absence of an employer who would provide the employment, there would be no employee.
(122d f) 3.
a partnership firm is not a legal entity.
in a partnership each partner acts as an agent of the other.
the position of a partner qua the firm is thus not that a master and a servant or employer and employee which concept involves an element of subordination but that of equality.
the partnership business belongs to the partners and each one of them is an owner thereof.
in common parlance the status of a partner qua the firm is thus different from employees working under the firm, it may be that a partner is being paid some remuneration for any special attention which he devotes but that would not involve any change of status and bring him within the definition of employee.
seth hira lal & anr vs
sheikh jammaluddin and anr.
[1946] 224 indian cases 1o6 & regional director of e.s. 1.
corporation vs m/s. osmanja tile works, alwaye, i.l.r. 1975 (2) kerala 207 approved.
regional director of e.s.i. corporation, jaipur vs p.c. kasliwal and anr.
(1931) labour & industrial cases 671 reversed 4.
in the united states, great britain and australia, a partner is not treated as an employee of his firm merely because he receives a wage or remuneration for work done for the firm, which is in complete accord with the jurisprudential approach.
[127d e] dube vs robinson 92 n 312.
united states fidelity smith & berger vs fldility union casualty co, tayes, 293 s.w. 235 & weaver vs wcinberger 392 f. suppl.
721 crooks vs glena falls indemnity co, 203 & morfci corporation vs us.d.c. california, 500 f. suppl.
714 & burker vs friedman, ; & wright vs deareter ellies vs joseph & co. & rose vs federal commissioner of taxation ; a referred to.
beneficial legislation should have liberal construction with a view to implementing the legislative intent but where such beneficial legislation has a scheme of its own there is no warrant for the court to travel beyond the scheme and extend the scope of the statute on the pretext of extending the statutory benefit to those who are not covered by the scheme.
[127f g]