the respondent assessee was assessed to wealth tax for the assessment years 1965 66, 1966 67 and 1967 68, in the status of a hindu undivided family '.
in each of the assessment years, the wealth tax officer included a sum of rs. 1.5 lakhs estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee 's money lending investments.
the assessee appealed to the appellate assistant commissioner, con tending that as the books of account were maintained in accordance with the cash system of accounting, the accrued interest on the money lending investment could not be included in the wealth tax assessments, the appellate assistant commissioner following the decision of the orissa high court in commissioner of wealth tax bihar and orissa vs vysyaraju badreenarayana moorthy raju (orissa) (1971)79 itr 330 deleted the additions representing accrued interest.
the wealth tax officer, appealed to the appellate tribunal and con tended that the accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessment of the assessee, relying on the judgment of the andhra pradesh high court in vedrevu venkappa rao vs commissioner of wealth tax a.p.
the appellate tribunal dismissed the appeal, as it was bound by the decision of the orissa high court.
the commissioner of wealth tax applied under section 27(1) of the wealth tax act, 1957 for a reference to the supreme court in view of the conflict of opinions between the orissa high court and the andhra pradesh high court and the question: "whether the wealth tax officer was justified in including in the net wealth of the assessee, interest due on accrual basis (though not realised) on the outstandings 307 of the assessee 's money lending business, the accounts being maintained on cash," was referred to this court.
^ held: 1.
even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis, though not realised, on the out standings of the money, lending business is liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
[310g] 2.
the value of a property refers to the value of the rights in that property.
what accrues as a right also falls to be included within the assets of an assessee under the wealth tax act 1957.
[310f] 2.1.
the system of accounting, mercantile or cash or hybrid, is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the assets of the assessee.
that appears plainly from the definition of "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value. of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
all the assets of the assessee, bar those expressly excepted by the statute, are to be taken into account, and it is immaterial whether the assessee employs one system of accounting or another.
[310 c d] 3.
the assets are not confined to cash.
where the asset is an asset other than cash, its value is determined pursuant to sub section (i) of section 7 as the estimated price, which, in the opinion of the wealth tax officer, the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
[310e f] vedrevu venkappa rao vs commissioner of wealth tax a.p. , commissioner of wealth, tax.
a.p_i. vs pachigolla narasimha rao, and dipta kumar basu vs commissioner oz wealth tax, west bengal, , approved.
commissioner of wealth tax bihar and orissa vs vysyaraju badreenarayana moorthy raju (orissa) and a.t. mirji vs commissioner of wealth tax, karnataka, over ruled.