the trial court, without any previous sanction of the state government under s.197 cr.
p.c. took cognizance in respect of a charge, that the appellant had, in the purport ed discharge of his duties, used force in excess of what was necessary and thereby committed an offence.
the high court, in appeal by the appellant, however, took the view that inasmuch as the state government itself had accorded sanction to 'prosecute ' the appellant in exer cise of powers under s.132 of the cr.
p.c. there was no need for sanction under s.197 of cr.
allowing the appeal to this court, held: 1.
the proceedings against the appellant must be quashed as lacking in jurisdiction.
the court could not have taken cognizance of the offence, for there was no jurisdic tion to do so in the absence of the requisite sanction.
this order will not operate as an acquittal an merits, and the appellant can be proceeded again.
it afresh.
whether or not to do so is for the competent authority to decide.
[996b c] 2.1 two safeguards are provided in regard to prosecution of members of the armed forces or of the forces charged with the maintenance of public order sought to be prosecuted for use of excessive force in the discharge or purported dis charge of their duty.
the first safeguard provided in section 132 cr.
p.c. is that they cannot be "prosecuted" without obtain ing a sanction to prosecute from the appropriate government and the second safeguard is the one provided under section 197 that no court can take "cognizance" of an offence against such an official in the absence of the previous sanction of the appropriate government.
[993d f; 994a] 992 2.2 a sanction under s.132 of the cr.
p.c. is no substi tute for a sanction under section 197 of the cr.
p.c. six signifi cant points of difference need to be highlighted.
[994d] 1.
the two sanctions are addressed to altogether different persons.
while sanction under sec.
132 is addressed to the intending complainant, sanction under section 197 is addressed to the magistrate presiding over a court.
[994e 995a] 2.
the two sanctions serve two altogether different pur poses.
while the sanction under s.132 clothes the intending complainant with authority to institute a complaint and set the machinary of the criminal court in motion, the sanction under section 197 clothes the court with the jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.
without the former, the intending complainant cannot trigger the proceedings.
without the latter the magistrate cannot have seisin over the matter or act in the matter.
[995b] 3.
the absence of sanction in each case visits different persons with different consequences.
absence of the former disables the intending complainant whereas absence of the latter disables the court.
[995c] 4.
the disability operates in two different spheres.
want of sanction under section 132 renders the complaint invalid.
want of sanction under section 197 vitiates all the proceedings in the court.
for want of the former, the complainant cannot com plain, for want of the latter the court cannot try the case.
[995d] 5.
the sanctioning authority has to address itself to different questions.
in regard to sanction under sec.
132 cr.
p.c. the question to be answered is whether the intending complainant is a suitable person to be authorized for prose cuting the matter in good faith.
in regard to the sanction under sec.
197 the question to he answered is which particu lar court should be empowered to try the case.
so also in granting sanction under sec.
197 the sanctioning authority has to consider whether or not to exercise the powers under section 197(4) to specify "the person by whom, the manner in which, and the offence or offences for which" the concerned public servant should be tried and "the court before which the trial is to be held".
the authority seized of the matter in the context of sanction under sec.
132 does not have to address himself to these questions and in fact has no compe tence in this behalf.
[995e 995g] 993 6.
one is an authority to an individual to 'prosecute ' the alleged offender, the other is an authority to 'try ' the alleged offender.
[995h]