the supreme court in the judgment of laxmi kant pandey vs union of india dated 6th february, 1984 and the supple mental judgment dated 27th september, 1985 had formulated the normative and procedural safeguards to be followed in giving an indian child in adoption to foreign parents.
since there were certain difficulties in implementing the afore said norms and principles, the petitioners moved the present criminal miscellaneous petitions for seeking clarification/further directions in the matter.
disposing of the petitions, 384 held: 1.
when the court makes an order appointing a foreign parent as guardian of a child with a view to its eventual adoption in the foreign country, the court will provide that such amount shall be paid to the scrutinising agency for its services as the court thinks reasonable having regard to the nature of the case and the extent and volume of the services rendered by the scrutinising agency.
in case of an application for appointment of a foreign parent as guardian of a child the court would be justified in directing payment of any reasonable amount varying be tween rs.450 and rs.500 but in appropriate cases where the courts so think fit.
such amount may even exceed rs.500.
this amount shall be directed to be paid to the scrutinising agency by the recognised placement agency and such placement agency shall have the right to recover such amount from the foreign parent whose application for guardianship it has processed.
this direction will also apply mutaris mutandis in cases where an indian parent makes an application for appointing himself or herself as guardian of a child or a hindu parent applies for permission to adopt a child under s.9 sub s.(4) of the and the case is referred to a scrutinising agency by the court, but in such cases the amount to be fixed by the court for meeting the expenses of the scrutinising agency shall not exceed rs.150.
[387g 388c] 2.1 all nursing homes and hospitals which come across abandoned or destitute children or find such children aban doned in their precincts or otherwise shall immediately give information in regard to the discovery or find of such children to the social welfare department of the concerned government where such nursing homes or hospitals are situate in the capital of the state and in other cases to the col lector of the district and copies of such intimation will also be sent to the foster care home where there is such a home run by the government as also to the recognised place ment agencies functioning in the city or town where such nursing homes or hospitals are situate.
[388f g] 2.2 each indian parent who is registered with the foster care home or a recognised placement agency as a prospective parent wishing to take a child in adoption and who has been informed by the recognised placement agency that a child is available for adoption will be entitled to information about all the children available for adoption in the group speci fied by him, according to the consolidated list maintained by the recognised placement agency.
[389b] 3.
the supreme court had directed in paragraph 22 of the main judgment that the notice of the application for guard ianship in cases of adoption by foreign parents should not be published in any newspaper because otherwise the biologi cal parents would come to know as to who are the parents taking the child in adoption.
this.direction must also cover the cases where 385 hindu parents make an application under s.9 sub s.(4) of the .
[389d e] 4.
no recognised placement agency shall make and process an application for appointment of a foreigner as guardian of a child with a view to its eventual adoption, unless the child has been in the custody of the recognised placement agency for a period of at least one month before the making of the application and it shall not be permitted to act merely as a post office or conduit pipe for the benefit of an unrecognised agency.
[390d e] 5.
whenever a child is produced before the juvenile court by a recognised placement agency for a release order declaring that the child is abandoned or destitute so as to be legally free for adoption, the juvenile court must in all such cases complete the inquiry within one month from the date of the application and proper vigilance should be exercised by the high court.
high courts should call for monthly reports from the juvenile courts stating as to how many applications for release orders, that is, for declaring children abandoned or destitute, are pending before each juvenile court, when they were filed and if they have not been disposed of within one month, what is the reason for the delay.
where the juvenile court is not in existence, application for release order is required to be made to the social welfare department in the capital of the state or to the collector of the district in other places.
the social welfare department or the collector, as the case may be, will dispose of such application within one month of its making.
[391b d, f] 6.
the court entertaining an application for appointment of a foreigner as guardian of a child should not require the representative,of the recognised placement agency processing the application to join the application as a co petitioner nor should the court insist on appointing such representa tive as joint guardian of the child alongwith the foreigner.
[392c] 7.
where a child is relinquished by its biological parents or by an unwed mother under a deed of relinquishment executed by the biological parents or the unwed mother it should not be necessary to go through the juvenile court or the social welfare department or the collector to obtain a release order declaring the child free for adoption but it would be enough to produce the deed of relinquishment before the court which considered the application for appointment of a foreigner as guardian of the child.
[393b] 8.1 where an abandoned or destitute child is found by a recognised placement agency or is brought to it by another social or child welfare agency or individual it should be open to such recognised placement agency to transfer the child to its branch in another state after the completion of the inquiry by the 386 juvenile court or social welfare department or the collec tor, as the case may be.
where such recognised placement agency has an associate social or child welfare agency in another state, it should be open to the recognised placement agency to transfer the child to such associate social or child welfare agency in the other state, provided firstly, that the inquiry is complete by the juvenile court or the social welfare department or the collector and a release order is passed, and secondly, the associate social or child welfare agency has been notified by the recognised placement agency as its associate to the government of the state where the recognised placement agency is functioning as also to the government of the state where the associate social or child welfare agency is operating.
if, for any compelling reason, it becomes necessary for the recognised placement agency to transfer a child either to its own branch or to an associate social or child welfare agency before completion of the inquiry by the juvenile court or the social welfare department or the collector, as the case may be, the recog nised placement agency shall be allowed to do so after obtaining permission of the juvenile court or the social welfare department or the collector in that behalf.
[394e 395a] 8.2 the government of india is directed (i) to publish at least once in a year a list of recognised placement agencies and all their associate social or child welfare agencies operating in each state in two leading newspapers; and (ii) to send to the district courts in each state through the high court a list of the recognised placement agencies functioning within the state together with the names and particulars of their associate social or child welfare agencies.
such list must be supplied to the district judges at least once in a year and whenever any changes or modifications are made in the list, such change or modifica tions most be intimated to the district judges through the high court.
[395 b c] 9.
the recognised placement agency processing the appli cation of a foreigner for being appointed guardian of a child with a view to its eventual adoption, should be enti tled to recover from the foreigner, cost incurred in prepar ing and filing the application and prosecuting it in court including legal expenses, administrative expenses prepara tion of child study report, preparation of medical and i.q. reports, passport and visa expenses and conveyance expenses and that such expenses may be fixed by the court at a figure not exceeding rs.6000.
[395f] 10.
in case of a foreigner who has been living in india for one year or more, the home study report and other con nected documents may be allowed to the prepared by the recognised placement agency which is processing the applica tion of such foreigner for guardianship of a child with a view to its eventual adoption and that in such a case the court should not insist on sponsoring of such foreigner by a social or child welfare agency based in the 387 country to which such foreigner belongs nor should a home study report in respect of such foreigner be required to be obtained from any such foreign social or child welfare agency.
[396b] 11.
the court entertaining an application on behalf of a foreigner for being appointed guardian of a child with a view to its eventual adoption need not insist on security or cash deposit or bank guarantee and it should be enough if a bond is taken from the recognised placement agency which is processing the application and such recognised placement agency may in its turn take a corresponding bond from the sponsoring social or child welfare agency in the foreign country.
[396d f]