the life insurance corporation was established on sep tember 1, 1956 under the life insurance act of 1956 (act 31 of 1956) by amalgamating about 200 insurers carrying on life insurance business in the country.
it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business which had been taken over and the nature of the work was such that the corpora tion required the services of employees with experience and expertise in running life insurance business.
in order to meet the above need, section 11 of the act came to be enact ed.
sub section (1) provided that with effect from september 1, 1956, every whole time employee of the erstwhile insurers would become an employee of the corporation and hold office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration, and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held on september 1, 1956, had the act not been passed.
the conditions of service of the employees whose serv ices were transferred to the corporation under section 11(1) were not uniform.
the conditions governing the retirement of those employees were also diverse and different.
in some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years, in some at 58 years and in some others at 60 years.
in many cases, the insurers had permitted their employees to contin ue in 181 their services even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of the transferred employees, under sub section (2) of section 11 the central government was empowered to alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thought fit.
the sub section was amended by acts 17 and 36 01 ' 1957.
clause (bb) of sub section (2) 01 ' section 49 conferred power on the corporation to make regulations with the previ ous approval of the central government as regards 'the terms and conditions of service of persons who had become employ ees of the corporation under subsection (1) 01 ' section 11 '.
under clauses (b) and (bb) of section 49(2) 01 ' the act, regulations were framed prescribing the ages of retirement of the employees of the corporation belonging to different categories with the previous approval of the central govern ment and were incorporated in the life insurance corporation of india (staff) regulations, 1960 made by the corporation which came into effect on july, 1960.
under regulation 19(1), all transferred employees were entitled to remain in service till they completed 60 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such transferred employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
under regulation 19(2) employees appointed to the service of the corporation on or after september, 1956, were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been im paired.
in the case of the transferred employees this regulation was made in conformity with the 'standardisation order ' passed in respect of class iii and class iv transferred employees.
in whose case the age of retirement was fixed at 60 years.
the result was that the regulation made a clear and distinct classification 01 ' all the employees of the corporation belonging to all classes into two groups transferred employees and the employees appointed after september 1, 1956 for purposes of the age of retire ment having regard to the historical reasons.
182 consequent upon the settlement arrived at, upon an industrial dispute which arose between class iii and class iv employees who were appointed subsequent to september 1, 1956 in the corporation.
regulation 19 of the life insurance corporation of india (staff) regulations 1960 which came into force w.e.f.
july 1, 1960 was amended and the employees of the corporation were divided both longitudinally and latitudinally insofar as the age of retirement was con cerned.
longitudinally, all the transferred employees be longing to class i and ii became entitled to continue in service till they attained the age of 60 years, the corpora tion being empowered to retire any of them prematurely on completion of 55 years of age if his efficiency was found to have been impaired, and all the class i and class ii offi cers appointed to the service of the corporation on or after september 1, 1956 had to retire on completion of 58 years of age subject again to the power of the corporation to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
latitudinally, the employees were divided into two groups and all the employees belonging to class iii and class iv, irrespective of the tact whether they were trans ferred employees or employees appointed after september 1, 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age, but the employees belonging to class i and class ii who were appointed to the service of the corporation on or after september 1, 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to prema ture retirement.
sub regulation (2) of regulation 19 was modified empow ering the appointing authority to extend at its discretion of service of any employee of the corporation belonging to class i or class ii categories appointed to service on or after september 1, 1956 for one year at a time upto 60 years of age.
the power to extend the service of employees belong ing to class i and class ii appointed on or after september 1, 1956 beyond 58 years or ' age was withdrawn from january 21, 1977 and the corporation was permitted to retire an employee on completion of 50 years of age.
the first respondent joined the corporation as a class iii employee on march 22, 1957.
subsequently, he was promot ed to a class i post and ultimately as assistant divisional manager.
since he was born in the month of june, 1926, notice was issued to him in february, 1984 of his retirement which was due on june 30, 1984 on his completing the age of 58 years.
before the date of his retirement, he instituted a writ petition in the high court questioning the validity of regulation 19(2) of the (staff) regulations, 1960, as it stood then and prayed for the issue 183 of writ of mandamus directing the corporation not to retire him before he attained the age of 60 years.
it was contended by the first respondent before the high court that there was no justification to prescribe two different ages of retirement one for the transferred employ ees belonging to class i and class ii categories and the other for the employees who joined the service of the corpo ration alter september 1, 1956 and who also belonged to class i and class ii categories, and that in regard to those who joined the service after being appointed to class iii post after september 1, 1956, there could not be any reduc tion of age of retirement from 60 to 58 years on their being promoted to a class i or class ii post.
since he had the right to continue in service if he had remained in class iii only till he attained the age of 60 years as a class iii employee, age of retirement could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a class i post.
it was urged on behalf of the corporation and the union of india that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after september 1, 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
since there was no uniformity in the establishments in which the transferred employees were working prior to nationalisation of the life insurance business, it became necessary to fix the age of retirement of the transferred employees on a lair, equitable and just basis.
in the circumstances, the classification of the employees into two categories, namely, transferred employees and others who joined on or after september 1, 1956 for the purposes of age of superannuation was a valid classification and articles 14 and 16 of the constitution had not been violated.
it was further submitted that the discrimination made between the employees belonging to class i and class ii on the one hand and the employees belonging to class iii and class iv on the other in the matter of the age of superannuation was not invalid since they belonged to two different categories of employees who were governed by different conditions of service as regards pay, perquisites, allowances, administrative powers etc.
the high court did not find any unconstitutionality in a rule or regulation providing the age of retirement at 60 years of employees who had been absorbed from the service of the erstwhile insurers and to that extent it held that the grouping being reasonable the court might not travel into the domain of legislative policy.
it, however, found that when once a transferred employee belonging to class iii and an emp 184 loyee appointed after 1st september, 1956 by the corporation to a class iii post is promoted to class i, the distinction of the transferred employee and direct appointee could not be maintained, as on promotion they became persons belonging to the same category of employees enjoying the same condi tions of service.
hence the age of retirement should be the same in the case of both such promotees.
it accordingly held that the first respondent was entitled to continue till he attained the age of 60 years as other class i employees belonging to the category of transferred employees.
the writ petition was allowed and regulation 19(2) was struck down as being violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india and the corporation was directed not to retire the first respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
allowing the appeals, by special leave, of the life insurance corporation of india and the union of india, this court, held: 1.1 the decision taken by the corporation and the central government as regards the ages of retirement of the different classes of the employees of the corporation is a bona fide one and cannot be characterised as unreasonable and it is not, therefore, liable to be upset by a decision of the court.
[222g] 1.2 in the instant case, the high court erred in strik ing down regulation 19(2) of the l.i.c. (staff) regulations 1960 as amended in the year 1977 and in directing the corpo ration to continue the first respondent in its service till he completed the age of 60 years.
[223a] 2.1 classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon the date of entry into service is not something which is unusual, and such classification becomes necessary on ac count of historical facts and the need for treating the employees in a fair and just way.
[220g] 2.2 merely because the pay, allowances and other perqui sites drawn by the transferred employees and by the employ ees appointed after september 1, 1956 by the corporation are the same, it cannot be said that the transferred employees and the other employees had been integrated so as to form one cadre.
so far as the age of retirement is concerned, they are being treated differently right from the date on which the corporation was established.
[221g] 2.3 in the instant case, since the classification of the employees for the purpose of age of retirement into two categories is reasonable 185 and not arbitrary and there is a reasonable nexus between the classification and the object to be attained thereby, it is not possible to ho1d that regulation 19(2) is violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
[222c] 3.
the act itself made a distinction between the trans ferred employees and the employees recruited to the service of the corporation after september 1, 1956 by making amend ments in section 11 and in clauses (b) and (bb) of sub section (2) of section 49 of the act.
in the (staff) regula tions, 1956 and the (staff) regulations, 1960 there was again a distinction made between the transferred employees and the employees recruited alter september 1, 1956.
the distinction between the two classes is recognised by parlia ment even as late as 1981 which it amended section 49 of the act by deleting clause (bb) of sub section (2) thereof and by amending section 48.
of the act by introducing clause (cc) in sub section (2) and the new sub section (2a) in it.
at no point of time the transferred employees were integrat ed into one cadre alongwith employees appointed after sep tember 1, 1956 as such and the transferred employees have retained their birth marks throughout.
the tact that the pay, allowances and other conditions or services have been made the same in respect of both the transferred employees and the employees of the corporation recruited after septem ber 1, 1956 has not brought about the integration of the two classes of employees into one single cadre.
[214gh; 215a: e f] 4.1 the determination of 58 years as age of superannua tion, in the case of the employees, who entered service after september 1, 1956 by itself cannot be considered to be arbitrary since in almost all the public sector corpora tions, central services and the state services, 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
[212c] 4.2 regarding the discrimination in the age or ' retire ment between employees belonging to class i and class ii on the one hand and class iii and class iv on the other, it is true that originally employees belonging to class iii and class iv categories amongst the transferred employees were given the benefit of retirement at the age of 60 years, but the employees belonging to class iii and class iv categories after 1st september, 1956 were required to retire on the completion of 58 years of age.
pursuant to the settlement arrived at between the management and the class iii and iv employees recruited after september 1, 1956.
this discrimi nation was removed and regulation 19 was amended w.e.f.
june 19, 1965.
[212d f] 186 4.3 having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to class iii and class iv are entitled to get from the corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to class i and class ii are entitled to and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them, fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees could not by itself be violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
[212f g] 5.
having regard to different conditions of service that were prevailing in the various establishments whose business was taken over by the corporation, fixation of age of super annuation is one of the essential parts or ' the process of transfer and integration to which sub section (2) of section 11 of the act is applicable.
the fixation of 60 years as the age of superannuation in the case of transferred employees cannot be considered to be unreasonable in view of the history of this case.
[208c d] 6.
the transferred employees who are treated favourably belong to a vanishing group and, perhaps, within a period of two years none of them would be in the service of the corpo ration.
thereafter, only one class of employees would be in the service of the corporation, namely, those appointed subsequent to september 1, 1956 by the corporation in re spect of whom the corporation has fixed the age of retire ment as 58 years which corresponds to the age or ' retirement in almost all the public sector establishments, the central government services and the state government services.
[221c e] 7.
the high court was right in holding that it was not discriminatory to extend the benefit of the age of 60 years to the transferred employees.
however, it was not correct in holding that on promotion from class iii to class i, the transferred employees and the directly recruited employees would lose their birth marks.
the intention of parliament was that even as late as in 1981 the two groups of employ ees, namely, the transferred employees and employees re cruited after september 1, 1956 in the corporation should be kept separate.
in these circumstances, the high court was in the error in holding that when employees are recruited to a lower grade from two sources, no favourable treatment should be extended to recruits from one source on their promotion to the higher grade.
the fact that an employee had entered the service of the corporation after september 1, 1956 in a class iii post and is later on promoted to a class i post does not make any difference.
[216e h; 217d] 187 8.
in the instant case, when the first respondent was promoted to the class i post in 1963 the age of retirement of officers in the class i post had been fixed at 58 years and was not different from the age of retirement of class iii employees.
it was only in 1965 under the settlement, the age of retirement of employees in class iii and class iv who joined service after september 1, 1956 was raised to 60 years.
if he felt that the conditions of service ill ' class i officers were likely to be prejudicial to him, he could have refused the promotion offered to him.
having accepted the promotion alongwith the higher benefits flowing from it he cannot contend after several years that he had been prejudicially affected by the condition relating to the age of retirement applicable to class i officers appointed after september 1, 1956.
that apart, the higher emoluments and other perquisites to which class i employees may be entitled to and the better conditions of work which are enjoyed by them substantially compensate the effect of the lowering of the age of retirement from 60 years to 58 years.
[213e g] christopher pimenta and others vs life insurance corpo ration of india, ; life insurance corporation of india vs d.j. bahadur & ors., [1981] 1 s.c.r. 1083; ram lal wadhwa & anr.
vs the state of haryana & 0rs.
; , ; state of punjab vs joginder singh, [1963] supp. 2 s.c.r. 169; tejinder singh and another vs bharat petroleum corporation ltd. and anr., [1986] 4 s.c.c. 237; roshan lal tandon vs union of india, [1968] 1 s.c.11.
185; miss lena khan vs union of india and ors., jt. ; railway board vs a. pitchumani, [1972] 2 s.c.r. 187; manindra chandra sen vs union of india & ors., a.i.r. ; m/s british paints (india) ltd. vs the work men; , ; mohammad shujat ali & ors. etc.
vs union of india & ors. etc.
; ; workmen of the bharat petroleum corporation ltd. (refining division) bombay vs bharat petroleum corporation ltd. and another, ; ; tamil nadu education department minis terial & general subordinate service association vs state of tamil nadu & anr., ; , referred to.