in may, 1974 the higher judicial service for the state of up was constituted, and the post of civil and sessions judge was abolished.
the u.p. state higher judicial service rules, 1975 came into force with effect from may 10, 1975.
the petitioners state judicial service officers who were promoted on various dates to the higher judicial service and posted as additional district judges/civil and sessions judges before 1974, filed writ petitions in this court challenging their inter se seniority, vis a vis, direct recruits contending that, on their confirmation, they were given seniority from a date chosen by the high court arbitrarily, instead of from the date of their continuous officiation, which had resulted in their being placed much below the officers appointed much later by direct recruitment, that there was no provision for direct recruitment to the higher judicial service before the 1975 rules were brought into force and all the existing vacancies on that date were to be filled by only promotion, and therefore, the high court, while confirming and giving the dates for the purpose of seniority, ought to have prepared a list of a vacancies existing on the date the rules came into force and confirmed all those who were officiating as additional and district judges or civil and sessions judges on that day in all those vacancies.
they also contended that while computing the seniority only three years were counted whereas they should have been given advantage of continuous officiation as they were officiating in the posts before the 1975 rules came into existence.
399 the aforesaid petitions were contested by the high court contending that as it became necessary to fill in the temporary posts the formality of examining record and consideration by a committee or the full court was not done, and all the petitioners were appointed only on the basis of seniority and not in accordance with the rules and, therefore, they could not be treated as appointed on probation from the date of their officiation and that even if an officer had been continuously working for more than three years, still for the purpose of computing seniority only three years will be counted as per proviso to rule 26.
allowing the writ petitions partly, ^ held: 1.1 the period of officiation has to be considered as period of probation and the confirmation has to be from the date on which earliest a vacancy was available and the seniority has to be counted on that basis.
[406a] 1.2 before the u.p. higher judicial service rules, 1975 were brought into force, there was no rule requiring direct recruitment and hence all the posts available were to be filled by promotion.
in view of this, and in view of proviso to rule 8, all the posts (permanent) available in the higher judicial service plus thirty one temporary posts existing on that date, which may become permanent later, should be filled by promotion from amongst the members of the nyayika sewa.
some of the posts may be occupied by promotees officers who were given promotions on ad hoc basis and working on these posts or that the posts may be lying vacant.
whatever may be the situation the matter will have to be gone into afresh by the high court and all the posts in the higher judicial service available as on may 10, 1974 plus thirty one posts have to be filled from the officers of the nyayika sewa.
[403c, 406e g] 1.3 in view of para 3 of the rules and the notification abolishing the posts of civil and sessions judges, all those officers who were officiating as civil and sessions judges on 8th may, 1974 automatically became additional district and sessions judges.
what has been contemplated in rule 20 could not be applied retrospectively for promotions before 1975.
what was left was only a consideration of their cases of confirmation.
in doing so, the only thing that could be kept in view is the date on which a vacancy (permanent) was available for their confirmation and the seniority of those officers will have to be reckoned in accordance with the date of confirmation which will be not the actual date of confirmation but a date when a post was available, and in so doing, it will not also be reasonable to fix any date, as has been done by 400 the high court arbitrarily on the assumption that actually when they were promoted they were not promoted after following the procedure.
the only thing that can be considered will be that if at the time of confirmation an officer was not found fit naturally he must have been reverted, and the question of ms seniority in the higher judicial service, therefore, will not arise.
[407g h, 408b e] so far as the posts available on 10th may, 1974 is concerned, the high court will have to look into the matter afresh and decide the seniority.
but after the rules came into force, the rules will have to be given effect to.
[408h, 409a] 2.1 in rule 22 the phrase used is "to make appointment to the service on the occurrence of substantive vacancies".
the substantive vacancy has not been defined in the rules.
but the scheme of the rules clearly indicates that there are permanent posts and temporary posts also which are created to meet contingency and it may in due course be made permanent.
therefore, when appointment under rule 22 is contemplated in the service of substantive vacancies, it may be both temporary or permanent.
but the vacancy must be in the cadre.
a person could only be confirmed when the permanent post is available for him.
it is clear from cl.
(3) of rule 22 that appointment to temporary vacancies shall be made from the nyayika sewa and as and when a substantive vacancies arises the procedure for selection should be followed and the officers who were appointed to fill in the temporary post should be considered first and appointed on probation if found fit.
[410d f, 410h 411a] 2.2 normally the period of probation shall be two years.
in computing this period of probation, an officer who has been continuously officiating immediately prior to his appointment on probation will also be taken into account and the period of probation in any event shall not exceed three years.
proviso 2 to rule 26 provides that in the case of promotee officers a maximum period of continuous officiation in the service shall not, for the purpose of determining seniority, exceed three years immediately preceding the date of confirmation.
this is consistent with the rule 23 which provides that total period of probation shall not ordinarily exceed three years.
[412a b, c d] these principles of seniority will apply only to the promotions made after the rules came into force.
the scheme of the rules is that if a person is appointed to officiate in the higher judicial service his case for confirmation will normally be considered within three years and either he will be confirmed or reverted and the high court is expected 401 to examine the case of the promotee officer within three years and decide whether the officer deserves to be confirmed or reverted.
[412e f] by laying down that the period of probation shall not ordinarily exceed three years and that only three years of continuous officiation will be counted for purposes of seniority in the case of promotee officers, the rules contemplate that there will not be an occassion when there may be a person officiating for more than three years and his case has not yet been considered for confirmation.
[412g h] ordinarily, if the rules were brought into force the appointments to the higher judicial service, either on the basis of direct recruitment or on the basis of promotion, must have been in accordance with the rules and it is expected that the probation, confirmation and the seniority must have been looked into by the high court strictly in accordance with the rules.
[413a b] 3.
about the appointments on the posts available before these rules were brought into force and to fill in temporary posts, the matter will have to be examined afresh by the high court and the posts available on 10th may, 1974 plus thirty one posts will have to be filled in only by promotees.
thereafter the high court should examine the cases of promotion and direct recruitment, after coming into force of these rules, and the vacancies available.
after considering the cases in accordance with these rules, the high court will prepare afresh the seniority list which may be notified so that if any objections are raised they may be placed for determination in accordance with the rules.
[413d f] o.p. singla & anr. etc.
vs union of india & ors., l, referred to.