the computation of court fees in suits falling under section 7(iv) of the court fees act depends upon the valuation which the plaintiff in his option puts on his claim and once he exercises his option and values his claim, such value must also be the value for purposes of jurisdiction under section 8 of the suits valuation act.
the value for purposes of court fee, therefore, determines the value for purposes of jurisdiction in such a suit and not vice versa.
1022 where, therefore, the court finds that the case falls under section 7(iv)(b) of the court fees act, and the plaintiff has omitted to specifically value his claim, liberty should ordinarily be given to him to amend his plaint and set out the amount at which he wants to value his claim.
the value put for purposes of jurisdiction which cannot be binding for purposes of court fee, and must be altered accordingly karam ilahi vs muhammad bashir, a.i.r. (1949) lah.
116, referred to.
consequently, in the present case where the division bench of the madras high court was of the opinion that section 7(iv)(b) of the court fees act applied but nevertheless held that the valuation given in the plaint for purposes of jurisdiction should be taken to be the valuation for purposes of court fee and directed the appellant to pay court fees both on the plaint and the memorandum of appeal on that basis, its order was set aside and the appellant allowed to pay court fees on the amount at which he valued his relief.
held further, that 0. 11, r. 1 of the high court fees rules, 1933, framed by the madras high court clearly indicates, that section 12 of the court fees act applies to the original side of the madras high court and it was, therefore, open to the division bench in a reference to assume jurisdiction and pass appropriate orders thereunder.
in the absence of any evidence on the record to show that he had either generally or specially been empowered by the chief justice in this behalf, the chamber judge sitting on the original side of the madras high court has no jurisdiction under section 5 of the court fees act to pass a final order thereunder.