the appellant manufactured various types of glass bottles which were assessed to duty under item no. 23a of the central excise tariff.
it sold the glass bottles to the customers on wholesale basis packed in gunny bags and cartons which were durable and returnable.
according to the appellant it has been paying duty on glass bottles on the basis of the assessable value which included the cost of packing material, namely, the gunny bags and cartons.
the returned gunny bags and cartons were re used by the appellant.
the appellant submitted for approval, price list in regard to the glass bottles manufactured by it showing separately the price at which the goods were actually sold and the cost of packing.
returning the price list duly approved, the superintendent of central excise noted therein that the price should be inclusive of the cost of packing and packing charges in terms of section 4(4)(d) of the act.
the appellant was paying duty on the cost of packing under protest and lodged claims of refund.
as the appellant did not receive either the refund or any intimation rejecting the claim for refund, it filed a writ petition before the high court which remanded the case back to the assistant collector for deciding the matter after giving the appellant fair and adequate opportunity to adduce evidence.
the assistant collector, after considering the written statements filed by the appellant rejected the appellant 's claim for refund and demanded duty for the subsequent period.
the appellant filed an appeal before the collector of central excise (appeals) which was rejected.
the appeal filed before the customs excise and gold (control) appellate tribunal was also dismissed.
this appeal under section 35l of the act is against the tribunal 's judgment.
588 dismissing the appeal, ^ held: 1.
in view of the facts of the case, and the expressions used in section 4(4)(d)(i) of the act, there being no evidence of the agreement that the cartons and gunny bags were returnable, the tribunal was right in coming to the conclusion that the cartons and gunny bags were not returnable in the accepted sense of the term.
[592g, b c] 2.1 the appellant manufactured glass bottles and delivered these in two types of packing, namely, in open crates and in cartons and gunny bags.
so far as the crates were concerned, the same belonged to the appellant.
the customer was billed for the cost of glass bottles only.
the crates were returnable to the appellant within 30 days.
the revenue has not included the cost of such crates in the assessable value.
the revenue has also not included the cost of packing, if any, supplied by the customer himself.
there was no dispute about these packings.
so far as the packings in cartons and gunny bags were concerned, it was noted by the tribunal, that these belonged to the appellant but their cost was realised from the customer along with the cost of glass bottles.
it cannot be said that the packing is returnable by the buyer to the assessee unless there is an arrangement between them that it shall be returned.
actual return or extent of return is not relevant.
what is necessary is that if the buyer chooses to return the packing, the seller should be obliged to accept it and refund the stipulated amount.
in this case there was no clause about returnability of the cartons and gunny bags.
[591b f] 2.2.
so far as the question of durability is concerned, there cannot be such controversy about it, but a question has been raised as to what is the meaning and connotation of the word "returnable".
what section 4(4)(d)(i) excludes from computation in cost of packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
the packing must be one which is returnable by the buyer to the assessee and obviously that must be under an arrangement between the buyer and the assessee.
it is not the physical capability of the packing to be returned which is the determining factor because, in that event, the words "by the buyer to the assessee" need not have found a place in the section; they would be superfluous.
[592d f k. radhakrishnaiah vs inspector of central excise and others, referred to.