these appeals were preferred by tenants against the judgment of the high court in civil revisions.
respondent mahabir prasad had executed a registered deed dated 8th december, 1966 with regard to premises in question, giving the benefits arising out of the said properties to his grandsons and their mother smt.
sulochana devi.
he informed the tenants to make payment of rent to smt.
sulochana devi in terms of the said deed.
later, mahabir prasad executed a registered deed of cancellation dated 3rd november, 1970, cancelling the aforesaid deed dated 8th december, 1966 and debarring the grandsons and their mother from the right to realise rent and informed the tenants about the said deed of cancellation.
subsequently, mahabir prasad instituted suits in the court of the judge, small causes against the appellant tenants for recovery of arrears of rent and their eviction on the ground that in spite of their being informed of the deed of cancellation, they had not paid rent to him.
the appellants contended that the deed dated 8th december, 1966, could not be unilaterally cancelled by mahabir prasad, and the rent claimed by him had already been paid by them to smt.
sulochana devi.
the title of mahabir prasad to realise rent was disputed by the appellants who had contended that the suit involving a question of title was not cognizable by a court of small causes.
the judge, small causes, decreed the suits.
the appellants filed revisions before the district judge who dismissed the same.
further revisions filed by the appellants in the high court were also dismissed.
the appellants moved this court for relief by special leave against the judgments of the high court.
pg no 238 pg no 239 allowing the appeals, the court, held: the provisions of section 23 of the provincial small cause courts act (the act) were clearly attracted in these cases and the plaints in the cases ought to have been returned for presentation to a court having jurisdiction to determine the title.
it is true that section 23 does not make it obligatory on the court of small causes to invariably return the plaint once a question of title is raised by the tenant, and that in a suit instituted by the landlord against his tenant on the basis of contract of tenancy, a question of title could also incidentally be gone into and that any finding recorded by a judge, small causes, in this behalf could not be res judicata in a suit based on title, but it cannot be gainsaid that in enacting section 23 the legislature must have had in contemplation some cases in which the discretion to return the plaint ought to be exercised in order to do complete justice between the parties.
on facts, these are cases in which~ in order to do ' complete justice between the parties the plaints ought to have been returned for presentation to a court having jurisdiction to determine the title so that none of the parties was prejudiced.
[242e, h, 243a c, f] judgments and decrees of the courts below were set aside and the judge, small causes was directed to return the plaints of the cases for presentation to the appropriate court as contemplated by section 23 of the act.
[243f g]