esso standard refining company of india ltd. and lube india ltd. were acquired by the esso (acquisition of under takings in india) act, 1974 and vested in the hindustan petroleum corporation ltd.
in 1978 caltex oil refining india ltd., another government company was amalgamated with hpcl.
consequent upon this integration of management staff of coril and hpcl, dispute arose as to their fitment in equiva lent groups and fixation of inter se seniority.
the tandon committee appointed to examine the issues recommended the application of the principles of (1) functional similarity, and (2) co equal responsibility, for equating positions in the two companies.
the hpcl appointed two functional direc tors for framing a rationalisation scheme.
in the said scheme for the purpose of equation of 10 grades of coril with 8 grades of hpcl some compression was made in the lower grades, namely, r6 a and r6 b of coril were clubbed together and equated with grade a of hpcl.
again, grade r7 a and r7 b were clubbed together and equated with grade b of hpcl.
the complaint of the petitioners, former officers and employees of coril, was that the rationalisation scheme was arbitrary, in that the fitment of officers of coril and those of the esso/lil in the hpcl scales of pay had been made without the equation of posts, which was a sine qua non for integration of officers coming from different sources, so much so that they had been consistantly fitted in one or two grades lower in hpcl vis a vis their counterparts in esso/lil performing similar duties and having similar re sponsibilities and status; that in the tandon committee report, the post of general sales representative of esso had been equated with the post of retail development supervisor of coril on the principle of functional similarity and co equal responsibility; that since these two posts were con gruent, they should have been fitted in the same group, that is, in group b of the new hpcl 363 grade structure, whereas in the said scheme the post of general sales representative of esso (e 6) and that of depot superintendent (e 6) have been placed in the salary group b of hpcl, while the post of retail development supervisor (r6 a) and depot superintendent/ relief depot superintendent (r6 b) of coril have been placed in salary group a of hpcl.
it is further averred that the post of depot super intend ent a (r7 b) and that of marketing representative (rt a) of coril have been placed in the salary group b of hpcl, but similar posts of esso being e 5/e5a have been placed in salary group c of hpcl; that the compression should have been made at the higher grades namely, grades r 11 and 12 and the grade of general manager, and that the petitioners were forced to signify their consent to the said scheme under duress.
they, therefore, prayed for a declaration that the said scheme was violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
for the respondents, it was contended that the two committees that were appointed by the chairman of hpcl considered the different methods of fitment and equivalence of different pay scales of esso, lil and coril with the pay scales of ioc, that the reports submitted by these two committees were considered by the hpcl along with the sub missions made by the officers ' association through their representations before approval, that the terms and condi tions of the new appointments as per the rationalisation scheme were circulated to each of the coril employees with its letter dated july 7, 1980 and they having accepted in writing the said scheme they were precluded from challenging the same.
allowing the writ petitions, held: 1.
while it is not within the domain of the court to make the equation of posts for the purpose of integra tion, it is surely the concern of the court to see that before the integration is made and consequent fitment of officers in different grades/scales of pay is effected, there must be an equation of different posts in accordance with the principle of functional equivalence and co equal responsibility.
[372g h] in the instant case, no evidence or material has been placed before the court on behalf of the hpcl in support of such equation of posts.
the rationalisation scheme with regard to the placing of the officers of coril in different ioc/hpcl grades of pay, therefore, cannot be accepted in full.
[372h] 364 2.
this is not for the court to say whether the compres sion should have been made in the lower grades or in the higher grades.
by such compression, grades r6 a and r7 a have been upgraded and the persons placed in those grades have been benefitted.
if compression had been made in the upper grades there would have been much complications in view of the functional differences, for the grade of general manager cannot be clubbed together with a lower grade.
the contention that the compression should have been made in the higher grades of coril cannot, therefore, be accepted.
[371f g] 3.
the apprehension of the petitioners that in the event of their refusal to accept the scheme, their services will be terminated cannot be rejected.
it may be that there was no reasonable basis for such apprehension, but the plea that because of such apprehension the petitioners had no other alternative than to accept the scheme, cannot be disbe lieved.
[371b] 4.
having regard to the interest of several officers of hpcl who would be affected if the scheme is set aside, and in view of the fact that during the eight years in which the scheme had been in operation many changes had taken place with regard to the positions and ranks of the officers of hpcl including petitioners, hpcl is directed to appoint a committee consisting of high officials of hpcl and central government, other than those who were in the previous com mittees, within one month for the purpose of considering the question of equation of posts on the basis of functional similarity, equivalence and co equal responsibility, and to give effect to the same.
promotions and the existing posi tions of the officers of hpcl by virtue of the implementa tion of the impugned scheme, not to be interfered with.
[373d, f g; 374b]