the rule against clogs on the equity of redemption embodied in section 60 of the transfer of property act empowers the court not only to relieve a mortgagor of a bargain whereby in certain circumstances his right to redeem the mortgage is wholly taken away, but also where that right is restricted.
the extent of this latter power is, however, limited by the reason that gave rise to it, namely, the unconscionable nature of the bargain, which, to a court of equity, would afford sufficient ground for relieving the mortgagor of his burden, and its exercise must, therefore, depend on whether the bargain, in the facts and circumstances of any particular case, was one imposed on the mortgagor by taking advantage of his difficult and impecunious position at the time when lie borrowed the money.
vermon vs bethell, ; ; and d. and c. kreglinger vs new patagonia meat and cold storage company, ltd., , relied on.
santley vs wilde, (1913) l. r. 41 i. a. 84 and mohammad sher khan vs seth swami dayal, (1912) l. r. 49 i. a. 60, refer red to.
consequently, in a suit, for redemption where the mortgage deed, by two distinct and independent terms provided that (1) the mortgage shall not be redeemed for eightyfive years and (2) that it could be redeemed only after that period and within six months thereafter, failing which the mortgagor would cease to have any claim on the mortgaged property and the mortgage deed would be deemed to be a deed of sale in favour of the mortgagee, and it was clearly evident from the facts and circumstances of the case that the bargain was quite fair and one as between parties dealing with each other on an equal footing : held, that the term providing for a period of eightyfive years was not a clog on the equity of redemption, and the mere length of the period could not by itself lead to an inference that the bar.
gain was in any way oppressive or unreasonable.
the term was enforceable in law and the suit for redemption, filed before the expiry of the period was premature.
held, further, that the term that on the failure of the mortgagor to redeem within the specified period of six months, he 65 510 would lose his right to do so and the mortgage deed was to be deemed to be a deed of sale in favour of the mortgagee, was clearly a clog on the equity of redemption and as such invalid but its invalidity could not in any way affect the validity of the other term as to the period of the mortgage, that stood clearly apart.