the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board and was later promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat he was transferred to ukai sub division under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march, 1974 and he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march, 1974.
he made representation to the addl.
chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order which was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so and continued to be absent without sanction of any leave and instead he filed a civil suit challenging validity of the order of transfer.
the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april, 1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation no. 113.
the respondent failed to join his duty even after a warning.
thereafter the superintending engineer sent a letter dated 24th april, 1974 by registered cover which contained a warning but the same was returned back by the postal authorities with an endorse ment that the addressee refused to accept the same.
meanwhile, the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may, 358 1974 discharged the respondent from service in accordance with service regulation no. 113 as he had continued to remain absent from duty since 30th march, 1974.
the respondent filed a writ petition before the high court challenging the validity of the order of his discharge from service.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of discharge but looking to the attitude of the respondent and continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior he was not granted consequential reliefs.
the respondent as well as the appellant board preferred letter patent appeals.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal of the appellant board and allowed the respondent 's appeal upholding the order of discharge as illegal and void and directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent, to treat him in service, and to grant him benefits of incre ments, seniority, and promotion.
the division bench, howev er, did not grant full back wages but directed the board to pay the respondent 50 per cent of back wages.
against the order of the division bench of the high court the appellants preferred an appeal to this court by special leave.
the appeal came up for hearing and advocates for both the parties were fully heard.
being satisfied that the single judge as well as division bench of the high court committed error in allowing the writ petition of the re spondent, this court suggested to the counsel for the re spondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court.
the bearing was adjourned to enable counsel to obtain instructions from the respondent.
on the next hearing another counsel appeared on behalf of the respondent to argue on merits.
the court refused to hear fresh argu ments as the hearing had already been completed.
thereupon, the respondent appeared in person to make his submissions which the court refused as oral.
hearing has already been completed.
however, in the interest of justice the respond ent was permitted to file written submissions.
no written submissions were filed, instead the respondent adopted an unusual course by sending an application by post expressing his no confidence in the bench of this court with a prayer to transfer the case to some other bench.
the court ignored the request of the respondent as it was unusual, uncalled for, and unjustified.
359 allowing the appeal by special leave, this court, held: no party is entitled to get a case transferred from one bench to the other, unless the bench is biased or there are some reasonable grounds for the same.
but no right to get a case transferred to any other bench, can legiti mately be claimed merely because the judges express opinion on the merits of the case on the conclusion of hearing.
[362e] transfer of a government servant appointed to a particu lar cadre of transferable posts from one place to other is an incident of service.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal right for being posted at any particular place.
transfer from one place to other is gener ally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
transfer from one place to other is necessary in public interest and efficiency in the public administra tion.
[362h; 363a] whenever, a public servant is transferred he must comply with the order but if there be any genuine difficulty in proceeding on transfer it is open to him to make representa tion to the competent authority for stay, modification, or cancellation of the transfer order.
if the order of transfer is not stayed, modified, or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
[363b] if he fails to proceed on transfer in compliance to the transfer order, he would expose himself to disciplinary action under the relevant rules, as has happened in the instant case.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
[363c] no government servant or employee of any public under taking has a right to be absent from duty without sanction of leave, merely on account of pendency of representation against the order of transfer.
[366b] there is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover, if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
the burden to rebut the presumption lies on 360 the party, challenging the factum of service.
[368b c] in the instant case, the respondent 's failure to join his duties at ukai resulted in unauthorised absence and his failure to join his duties in spite of repeated reminders and letters issued to him constituted sufficient valid ground for taking action under regulation no 113.
before issuing the order of discharge the respondent was not only warned but he was also afforded an opportunity to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in.
not complying with the order of transfer which led to his dis charge from service in accordance with the service regula tion no. 113.
the single judge as well as the division bench both therefore erred.
in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
[368e g]