the appellant who was engaged in the manufacture of paper and paper boards which were assessable under tariff item no. 17 of the first schedule to the .
engaged several dealers referred to as indentors, with a view to promote its sales.
in the fixation of the normal price of these items under section 4 of the act for the purpose of levy of excise duty, the appellant claimed deduction on account of 'service charge discount ' paid to the indentors, in addition to the 'trade discount ' paid to the purchasers.
having failed before the assessing authority and the central excise and gold (control) appellate tribunal in respect of the deduction claimed on account of 'service charge discount ' the appellant appealed to this court.
it was contended on behalf of the appellant that al though in some of the sales the discount allowed to the indentors might have been described as 'service charges discount ', that name could not govern the real nature of the transaction and the discount was really a 'trade discount '.
it was further contended that in several cases the indentors were really the purchasers themselves and hence, the normal trade discount paid to them should have been allowed as a deduction.
dismissing the appeal, this court, held: (1) the trade discount was discount paid to the purchaser in accordance with the normal practice of the trade.
in the determination of the normal price for the purposes of levy of excise duty, it is only a normal trade discount which is paid to the purchaser which can be allowed as a deduction and commission paid to selling agents for services rendered by them as agents cannot be regarded as a 321 trade discount qualifying for deduction.
[323b c] union of india & ors.
vs bombay tyres international pvt. ltd., [1984] 17 e.l.t. 329 (s.c.) and coromandel ferti lizers limited vs union of india & ors., [1984] 17 e.l.t. 607 (s.c.), referred to, (2) if in any case the purchaser named in the invoice 18 the same as the indentor, normal trade discount given to the indentor will be allowed as a deduction in the determi nation of the normal price for the levy of the excise duty subject to other relevant considerations.
[324b c]