the karnataka public service commission issued a notifi cation on 23rd may 1975 inviting applications from in serv ice candidates for recruitment to 50 posts of tehsildars.
in para 14 of the notification it was stated that provisions of 1975 rules, and rules 7 to 14 of the karnataka recruitment of gazetted probationers (class i & 11 posts appointment by competitive examination) rules, 1966 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the conduct of the competitive examination and the provisions of the karnataka state civil services (general recruitment) rules, 1957 shall apply in respect of matters for which no provision is made in the rules.
in preparing the select list and making reservations to the various categories, the commission followed the direc tions and the procedure as contained in government order dated 6th september 1969.
the state government refused to approve the list and directed the commission on 23.4.76 to prepare the list afresh following the government order dated 7th july 1975.
the commission thereupon prepared the list afresh as per government order of 7th july 1975.
in the revised list, the appellants names did not figure.
the appellants challenged the validity of the government order dated 23rd april 1976 as well as the revised list and the validity of the government order dated 9th july 1975 by means of writ petitions before the high court on a number of grounds.
the appellants contended that the government order dated 7th july 1975 prescribing mode of preparing the select list by making reservations for various categories was inconsistent with the statutory rule 10 of 1966 rules, and further the directions contained therein were violative of articles 16(1) and 16(4) of the constitution of india.
240 the high court rejected both the contentions holding that the directions contained in government order of 9th july 1975 were not violative of rule 10(2) and there was no violation of article 16 of the constitution.
the high court also upheld the government order dated 23.4.76 directing the commission to prepare the select list afresh in accordance with the mode prescribed vide government order of 9th july 1975.
in this court, the appellants did not pursue their challenge to the validity of the government order dated 9.7.75 but they assailed the validity of government order dated 23.4.76 wherein the government directed the commission to prepare a revised list in accordance with the government order dated 9.7.75 on the ground that the government order was not applicable to the pending selection.
the appellants also urged that the mode of selection and procedure for making reservations as prescribed by govern ment order of 9th july 1975 was not applicable to the selec tion as advertisement had been issued in may 1975 and the process of selection had already commenced prior to the issue of government order dated 9th july 1975, and that the revised list of successful candidates prepared by the com mission as per government directions of 23.4.76 was illegal and contrary to the rules.
on behalf of the respondents it was submitted that the list of successful candidates had been prepared in accord ance with government order dated 9th july 1975, the state government was justified in insisting upon the commission to prepare the list afresh in accordance with the directions contained in the aforesaid order.
allowing the appeals and setting aside the order of the high court, held: (1) where advertisement is issued inviting appli cations for direct recruitment to a category of posts and the advertisement expressly states that selection shall be made in accordance with the existing rules or government orders and if it further indicated the extent of reserva tions in favour of various categories, the selection of candidates in such a case must be made in accordance with the then existing rules and government orders if any.
(2) whether the rules have retrospective effect or not primarily depends upon the language of the rules and its construction to ascertain the legislative intent.
241 (3) indisputably the government order of 9th july 1975 superseded all earlier government orders including that of 6th september 1969 but in para ii it saved the selection which was pending i.e. it saved the reservations already made for any category of post or service in respect of which advertisement had already been issued before the issue of government order dated 9th july 1975.
para ii was in the nature of a saving clause, and the commission rightly fol lowed the mode of selection prescribed under the government order in force prior to government order of 9th july 1975.
the state government was bound to give full effect to the provisions of para ii of government order dated 9th july 1975.
therefore directions contained in its order dated 23.4.76 were illegal [248c e; 249e] 4.
another aspect of the instant case is that where advertisement is issued for direct recruitment to a category of posts expressly stating that selection shall be made in accordance with the existing rules or government orders and also indicates the extent of reservations in favour of various categories, the selection of candidates must be made in accordance with these rules and government order.
the candidates who applied for selection in pursuance of the advertisement, acquired vested right for being considered for selection in accordance with the terms and conditions of the advertisement.
[249e g] 5.
in case the recruitment rules are amended retrospec tively during the pendency of the selection then selection has to be made in accordance with the amended rules.
whether rules have retrospective effect or not primarily depends upon the language of the rules and its construction to ascertain the legislative intent, either by express provi sion or by necessary implication.
if the amended rules are not retrospective in nature the selection must be regulated in accordance with the existing rules and orders in force at the time of advertisement.
[249h; 250a b] (6) it is a well accepted principle of construction that statutory rule or government order is prospective in nature unless it is expressly or by necessary implication made to have retrospective effect.
[251 d] (7) in the instant case, para ii of the government order dated 9th july 1975 made the governments intention clear that the revised directions which are contained in the said government order would not apply to the selection in respect of which advertisement had already been issued.
therefore the mode of selection as contained in annexure to the gov ernment order dated 9th july 1975 was not applicable to the selection for filling 50 posts of tehsildars pending before the public service commission.
[251g h] 242 8.
having regard to the facts the circumstances of the case.
it would be expedient in the interest of justice not to interfere with the respondents ' appointment but the state government is directed to appoint i the appellants on the posts of tehsildars with retrospective effect.
if no vacan cies are available the state government is directed to create supernumerary posts of tehsildars for appointing the appellants against those posts.
for purposes, of seniority the appellants should be placed below the last candidate appointed in 1976 but they will not be entitled to any back wages.
[252f g]