the appellant was an accountant cum headclerk in the forest training school, pw 3 the principal of the training school, and pw i the canteen contractor.
the prosecution alleged that on the basis of a complaint made by the appel lant that the food served in the canteen was substandard, pw 3 issued a show cause notice to pw i, as to why the licence for the canteen should not be cancelled and that thereafter the appellant sent for pw i and demanded a bribe of rs. i00.
as the appellant pressed the demand from pw 1, the latter made a complaint to pw 6, the inspector, who arranged a trap.
the trap was arranged.
pw i handed over the money to the appellant, who received the same.
pw 6 conducted the phe nolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
the test was positive.
the currency notes were seized, and the appellant arrested chargesheeted.
the trial judge accepted the prosecution evidence, rejected the pleas of the appellant that pw 1 had returned the amount of rs. 100 due to him, that there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so, and recorded conviction.
the appellant appealed to the high court and contended that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand, the messenger who had contacted pw 1 at the behest of the appellant had not been examined, the solitary evidence of pw i is insufficient and that the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and that there is no conclusive evidence to hold that the appellant was guilty.
the high court took the view that the recovery of the currency notes from the appellant prove his guilty conduct, in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) 01 ' the prevention of corruption act and that the same has not been rebutted and held that though the conviction under 335 section 161 i.p.c. and section 5(2) of the prevention of corruption act, 1947 is to be maintained, no separate sen tence need be awarded under section 161 i.p.c. it, accord ingly, confirmed the conviction of the appellant and sen tenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 15 months.
in the appeal to this court, it was contended that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity, that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by pw i, and that the presumption, if any, arising under section 4 was rebutted, and the convic tion cannot therefore be sustained.
dismissing the appeal, this court held: 1.
the appellant has not even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption under section 4(1) of the prevention of corruption act.
[338c] 2.
the court has no choice once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration, but to draw a presump tion that the person received the money as a motive of reward.
however, it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration, it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
the explanation offered by the person should be a true one and not one which is merely plausible.
[339b c; f] dhanvantrai balwantrai desai vs state of maharashtra, air 1964 sc 575, referred to.