the land belonging to the respondent intermediaries comprising of certain plots stood vested in the state of west bengal by operation of a notification issued under section 4(1) of the west bengal estates acquisition act, 1953.
since the plots were recorded as 'tank fisheries ' (used as pisciculture), they stood excluded from the purview of the vesting notification under section 6(1)(e) of the act and preserved to the respondent intermediaries.
subsequently the primary authority the assistant set tlement officer initiated suo moto proceedings by issuing notice to the respon 92 dents under section 44(2a) of the act for correction of classification of lands on the ground that the plots were wrongly recorded as fishery plots.
the respondents objected to reclassification of the lands by contending that in 1952 they were granted dakhilas to the said land by one `b ', the principal landlady, and thereafter they have been cultivat ing pisciculture on the said plots of the land and conduct ing fishery business.
the assistant settlement officer rejected the claim of the respondents and ordered reclassi fication of the plots.
the respondents filed an appeal before the tribunal (district judge) under section 44(3) of the act.
the appellate tribunal reversed the order of the assistant settlement officer and confirmed the original classification of the plots.
against the decision of the appellate tribunal, the state filed a writ petition in the calcutta high court which dismissed the petition in limine.
in appeal to this court it was contended on behalf of the state: (i) that the appellate tribunal had reversed the findings without considering the validity of the reasons recorded by the assistant settlement officer; (ii) that the appellate tribunal had taken irrelevant factor or non exist ing factors into account and thereby its findings were based on no evidence and hence vitiated in law.
on behalf of the respondents it was contended that since the appellate authority has recorded the findings of fact that pisciculture was in existence as on the date of vesting the supreme court cannot interfere with the findings of fact recorded by the appellate court, particularly, when the high court did not choose to interfere with the finding.
allowing the appeal, this court, held: 1.
giving of reasons is an essential element of administration of justice.
a right to reason is, therefore, an indispensable part of sound system of judicial review.
reasoned decision is not only for the purpose of showing that the citizen is receiving justice, but also a valid discipline for the tribunal itself.
therefore, statement of reasons is one of the essentials of justice.
[99c d] 1.1 the appellate authority in particular a trained and experienced district judge is bound to consider the entire material evidence adduced and relied on by the parties and to consider whether the reasons assigned by the primary authority is cogent, relevant to the 93 point in issue and based on material evidence on record.
the appellate authority being final authority on facts, is enjoined and incumbent upon it to appreciate the evidence; consider the reasoning of the primary authority and assign its own reasons as to why it disagrees with the reasons and findings of the primary authority.
unless adequate reasons are given, merely because it is an appellate authority, it cannot brush aside the reasoning or findings recorded by the primary authority.
[99d; 102e f] 2.
if the appellate authority had appreciated the evi dence on record and recorded the findings of fact, those findings are binding on this court or the high court.
by process of judicial review this court cannot appreciate the evidence and record its own findings of fact.
if the find ings are based on no evidence or based on conjectures or surmises and no reasonable man would, on given facts and circumstances, come to the conclusion reached by the appel late authority on the basis of the evidence on record, certainly this court would oversee whether the findings recorded by the appellate authority is based on no evidence or beset with surmises or conjectures.
[99a c] 2.1 in the instant case the appellate tribunal disre garded the material evidence on record, kept it aside, indulged in fishing expedition and crashed under the weight of conjectures and surmises.
the appellate order is, there fore, vitiated by manifest and patent error of law apparent on the face of record.
the order of appellate tribunal is quashed and the order of assistant settlement officer is restored.
[103f g; 104d] 3.
tank fishery means the lands being used for piscicul ture or any fishing in a reservoir or storage place whether formed naturally or by artificial contrivance as a permanent measure except such portion of embankment as are included in a homestead or in a garden or orchard to be tank fishery.
such lands occupied by pisciculture or fishing stand pre served to the intermediaries and thus stands excluded from the operation of sections 4 and 5 of the west bengal estates acquisition act, 1953.
but the crucial date for establish ing, as a fact that the pisciculture was being carried on in the disputed land is the period of vesting.
the existence of fishery subsequent to that period is not of any relevance.
[100g h; 101e] chamber 's 20th century dictionary, page 829; webster comprehensive dictionary, vol.
ii and stroud 's judicial dictionary, vol.
ii 4th edn., page 1051, referred to.
94 3.1 in the instant case the respondents did not produce before the assistant settlement officer either post or pre record till date of vesting to establish that from 1952 to 1955 56 i.e. from the date of obtaining settlement till date of vesting, the lands were recorded in settlement records as pisciculture of fishery.
therefore, there is no documentary evidence to establish that the lands were being used, on the date of settlement or also on the date of vesting, as pisci culture or fishery.
[101f; 102a] 4.
admittedly the high court did not go into any of the questions raised by the appellant in the writ petition.
it summarily dismissed the writ petition.
the high court com mitted error of law in dismissing the writ petition in limine.
[98g; 103f]