the respondent, a bank employee, was chargesheeted for claiming l.f.c. on the basis of fake travel receipts.
the bank appointed one of its officers as enquiry officer as well as disciplinary authority who conducted the departmen tal enquiry against the respondent.
however, during the pendency of the enquiry the enquiry officer retired from service.
notwithstanding his retirement from service he proceeded with the enquiry and concluded the same against the respondent.
the respondent participated in the enquiry without raising any objection against the continuance of the said enquiry by the said enquiry officer.
after giving an opportunity to the respondent to be heard on the question of punishment the enquiry officer/disciplinary authority im posed the punishment of discharge.
the respondent fried a departmental appeal which was dismissed.
thereafter, the respondent filed a writ petition in the high court challeng ing the order of discharge on the ground that the order passed by the enquiry officer was without jurisdiction.
a single judge of the high court allowed the writ peti tion, quashed the order of punishment with all consequential benefits to the respondent on the ground that after retire ment the enquiry officer was nobody in the hierarchy of authorities to impose punishment on the delinquent employee and hence his order imposing punishment was incompetent and without jurisdiction.
against the order of the single judge the bank preferred a letter patent appeal before a division bench of the high court which was dismissed.
197 in appeal to this court it was contended on behalf of the appellant bank; (i) that the decision of the enquiry officer could be saved on the basis of de facto doctrine because (a) his initial appointment being valid his actions and decisions could not be invalidated by his subsequent retirement since he continued to function as a de facto enquiry officer; (b) even otherwise the bank could have appointed a non official as enquiry officer; (ii) that since the high court quashed the punishment not on merits but on a mere technicality, it erred in directing payment of all consequential benefits to the respondent; and (iii) since the respondent submitted to the jurisdiction of the enquiry officer and there was no prejudice caused to him he was estopped from raising the contention as to the competence or jurisdiction of the enquiry officer for the first time in the writ petition.
allowing the appeal in part, this court, held: 1.
the de facto doctrine has to requisites, name ly, (i) the possession of the office and the performance of the duties attached thereto, and (ii) colour of title, that is, apparent right to the office and acquiescence in the possession thereof by the public.
according to this doctrine the acts of officers de facto performed within the sphere of their assumed official authority, in the interest of the public or third parties and not for their own interest, are generally held valid and binding as if they were performed by de jure officers.
this doctrine can be invoked in cases where there is an appointment to office which is defective; but notwithstanding the defect to the title of the office, the decisions made by such a de facto officer clothed with the powers and functions of the office would be as effica cious as those made by a de jure officer.
the same would, however, not be true of a total intruder or usurper of office.
the doctrine envisages that acts performed de facto by officers within the scope of their assumed official authority are to be regarded.
as binding as if they were performed by officers de jure.
while the de facto doctrine saves official acts done by an officer whose appointment is found to be defective the private parties to a litigation are precluded from challenging the appointment in any col lateral proceedings.
but the doctrine does not come to the rescue of an intruder or usurper or a total stranger to the office.
obviously the doctrine can have no application to the case of a person who is not the holder of an office but is merely a bank employee, for that matter an ex employee.
[202e f; 203bf g; 204a c] 1.1 in the instant case, the enquiry officer can hardly be described as a person occupying or being in possession of an office to which certain duties affecting the members of the general public can be 198 said to be attached.
therefore in the facts and circum stances of this case the de facto doctrine can have no application.
[203h; 204a; 201g] pulin behari das vs king emperor, [1911 12] 16 cal.
weekly notes 1105; immedisetti ramkrishnaiah sons vs state of andhra pradesh, a.i.r. 1976 a.p. 193; jai kumar vs state, [1968] all.
l.j. 877; gokaraju rangaraju vs state of a.p., ; ; referred to.
abbe de fountaine decided in 143 1; cited.
1.2 an enquiry officer need not be an officer of the bank: even a third party can be appointed an enquiry officer to enquire into the conduct of an employee.
but there can be no doubt that a non official cannot act as a disciplinary authority and pass an order of punishment against the delin quent employee.
therefore, where punishment is imposed by a person who has no authority to do so the very foundation on which the edifice is built collapses and with and it fails the entire edifice.
it is a case more or less akin to a case tried by court lacking in inherent jurisdiction.
absence of bias, prejudice or mala fides, is of no consequence so far as the question of competence of the enquiry officer is concerned.
[202b; 204d e] saran motors (p.) ltd. vs vishwanath & anr., ; referred to.
delhi cloth and general mills co. ltd. vs labour court, tis hazari & ors., ; held inapplicable.
in the instant case, the impugned order of punishment was quashed not because the merits of the case so demanded but because the technical plea of incompetence succeeded.
therefore, the high court was right in quashing the impugned order of punishment but having regard to the special facts and circumstances of the case, it should not have ordered payment of 'all consequential benefits ' flowing from the declaration that the impugned order was bad in law.
the order of the high court is modified to the extent that the respondent will be paid 50% of the consequential benefits and not all the consequential benefits.
except for this modification, the rest of the order of the high court will stand.
[205e g]