the respondent defendant claimed the benefits under section 27(4) of the himachal pradesh abolition of big landed estates and land reforms act, 1953 alleging that he was a sub tenant cultivating the disputed land.
the compensation officer accepted his claim and passedan order in his favour under section 27(4).
the appellants ' father, plaintiff, challenged the order of compensation officer contending that the defendant was not entitled to the acquisition of the proprietary right under section 27(4) because he was merely a labourer employed by him and he had never cultivated the disputed land.
both the trial and the appellate court accepted the plaintiff 's case and concurrently held that the defendant was not a sub tenant and consequently the order passed in his favour under section 27(4) was without jurisdiction.
the plea of limitation was rejected and the plaintiff 's suit was decreed by holding that he being the tenant in possession was entitled to the right under section 27(4) of the act.
on further appeal the high court dismissed the plaintiff suit on the ground that the suit having been filed after a period of more than three years from the date of the order under section 27(4) it was barred by limitation.
hence this appeal against the decision of the high court.
allowing the appeal and setting aside the judgment of the high court, this court, held: 1.
the principle for deciding the question of limitation in 691 a suit filed after an adverse order under a special act is well settled.
if the order impugned in the suit is such that it has to be set aside before any relief can be granted to the plaintiff the provisions of article 100 will be attracted and if no particular article of the is applicable the suit must be governed by the residuary article 113, prescribing a period of three years.
therefore, in a suit for title to an immoveable property which has been the subject matter of a proceeding under a special act if an adverse order comes in the way of the success of the plaintiff, he must get it cleared before proceeding further.
on the other hand if the order has been passed without jurisdiction, the same can be ignored as nullity, that is, non existent in the eye of law and it is not necessary to set it aside; and such a suit will be covered by article 65 [693c d] 1.1 in the instant case the concurrent findings were that the plaintiff was the owner in cultivating possession of the land and the defendant was merely a labourer without any right of the tenant or a sub tenant.
if the land was in cultivating possesion of the plaintiff, the compensation officer did not have the jurisdiction to pass any order in defiance of section 27(2) and the land did not vest in the state at all.
further, for the additional reason that defendant was not a tenant of the land the order passed in his favour under section 27(4) was again without jurisdiction.
therefore, in absence of the conditions necessary for the exercise of power under section 27(4) of officer lacked jurisdiction to act and it was not necessary for the civil court to formally set aside his order before passing a decree.
what necessitated the plaintiff to come to the civil court was the challenge to his title, and the suit must be held to be covered by article 65, and, therefore, not barred by shorter period of limitation either article 100 or article 113.
[693e, 694b c d] sheo lal and ors.
vs sultan & ors.
, ; and mohd. murtiza khan vs state of m p. and ors., [1966] m.p.l.j., referred to.
state vs sadh ram, i.l.r. (hp) 1973 (2) 235 and gangu and ors.
vs mahanraj chand and ors., a.i.r. 1934 lahore 384, held inapplicable.