the lt. governor of delhi amended the delhi poisons rules, 1926 by the notification no. f.10/44/72 fin.
(g) dated 7.8.1973 by including to the list of substances in cluded in the rules as "poisons", the substance commonly known as "thinner" containing spirit and other soluble material.
the petitioners in this petition under article 32 of the constitution questioned the constitutional validity of section 5 of the on the grounds that the section gives an arbitrary power to the state government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restric tion to be imposed on the possession for sale and sale of the same; that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions; that though the act was a central enactment, it was possible of unjust and unjustified discriminatory application as it was left to each state government to determine what substance they would include as poison, and that the substance, 'thinner ', manu factured by the petitioners would not come within the amend ed rules.
dismissing the petition, this court, held: 1.
the object of the enactment is to regulate the possession for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
in other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poi sons.
the enabled state government to declare any substance as poison for the purposes of the act by a notification under the act or the rules made under the act.
[221 g] 3.
it is not all poisonous substances that are brought within the regulation under the act.
it is those substances which the government consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulated in the interest of health and safety of the society.
this limitation is inherent in the scheme of the act itself.
[223 c d] 4.
no comprehensive definition can be given to the word, "poison".
under this term would fall anything calculated to destroy life.
substances harmless in themselves might become poison by the time or manner of their administration.
noth ing is a poison unless regard be had to its administration.
a substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
if the resultant effect of administering into the system produces a violent, morbid or fatal changes or which destroys living tissues, the substance can be safely called poison.
any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein section 4 can definitely be declared as poison.
[223 d f] 5.
it has become a notorious fact that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other sub stances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
in many cases deaths have also occurred due to, drink ing such substance.
if the government thought in the circum stances that the possession or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
section 2 also enables the government to regulate the possession for sale and the sale of the specified poi son.
[223 g h; 224 a] 6.
the nature of trade in poison is such that nobody can be considered to have an absolute right to carry on the same.
it is a business which can be termed even as inherent ly dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor, weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
a law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
it is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
the notification and its application to any area would depend on the necessity to declare the substance as poison on the particular facts and situation prevailing in that area and the need to 221 regulate the possession and sale in that area.
no question of discrimination can arise in such circumstances.
[224 g h; 225 a]