the respondents, diploma holder junior engineers in the public works department, pondicherry, approached the central administrative tribunal, with the plea that the period of service rendered by them before they obtained the degree should be included for reckoning the period of three years ' service prescribed in the recruitment rules for promotion to the post of assistant engineer in the category of those possessing degree with three years ' service and if the earlier period was so included, they would be eligible for promotion.
however, degree holders opposed the respondents ' plea contending that the period of three years prescribed in the rules was subsequent to the date of obtaining the de gree.
the tribunal upheld the respondents ' claim and directed that they should be considered for promotion on par with the other degree holder junior engineers, taking due note of their total length of service rendered in the grade of junior engineer.
hence the appeal, by the special leave, by the degree hold ers.
allowing the appeal, this court, held:1.1 the rules must be construed to mean that the three years ' service in the grade of a degree holder for the purpose of rule 11 of the recruitment rules, for promotion to the post of assistant engineer in the public works de partment pondicherry, is 424 three years from the date of obtaining the degree by a diplomaholder.
this is in conformity with the past practice followed consistently.
the tribunal was not justified in taking the contrary view and unsettling the settled practice in the department.
[427 d] 1.2 rule 7 of the recruitment rules lays down the quali fications for direct recruitment from the two sources, namely, degreeholders and diploma holders with three years ' professional experience.
thus, a degree is equated to diplo ma with three years ' professional experience.
rule 11 pro vides for recruitment by promotion from the grade of section officers, now called junior engineers.
there are two catego ries provided therein, viz., (1) degreeholder junior engi neers with three years ' service in the grade and (2) diplo ma holder junior engineers with six years ' service in the grade, the provision being for 50% from each category.
this matches with rule 7 wherein a degree is equated with diploma with three years ' professional experience.
in the first category meant for degree holders, it is also provided that if degree holders with three years ' service in the grade are not available in sufficient number, then diploma holders with six years ' service in the grade may be considered in the category of degree holders also for the 50% vacancies meant for them.
the entire scheme, therefore, does indicate that the period of three years ' service in the grade re quired for degree holders according to rule 11 as the quali fication for promotion in that category must mean three years ' service in the grade as a degree holder and, there fore, that period of three years can commence only from the date of obtaining the degree and not earlier.
the service in the grade as a diploma holder prior to obtaining the degree cannot be counted as service in the grade with a degree for the purpose of three years ' service as a degree holder.
[427 g h, 428 a c]