during the pendency of a suit for eviction of the appellants from the property of respondent no.1, the appellants were alleged to have trespassed beyond the area which was the subject matter of the suit and indulged in several illegal activities.
thus according to respondents, the appellants were guilty of mischievous conduct.
the respondents instead of filing a suit in the civil court or making appropriate prayer for amendment of the plaint in the pending suit field a writ petition before the high court for issuance of appropriate direction retraining the appellants from disturbing the lawful possession of the respondents.
the administration and commissioner of police were also impleaded as parties and a direction sought against them not to register any further false and vexatious complaints against the respondents since undue police help to the appellants was apprehended.
the high court gave certain directions to the appellants as regards respondents ' access to the backyard.
the present appeal by special leave, is against the said orders of the high court.
on the question whether the writ jurisdiction of high court would be available for enforcement of a private right to immovable property claimed by and against private individuals: allowing the appeals, this court held: 1.
a regular suit is the appropriate remedy for settlement 905 of disputes relating to property rights between private persons and that the remedy under article 226 of the constitution shall not be available except where violation of some statutory duty on the part of statutory authority is alleged.
and in such a case, the court will issue appropriate direction to the authority concerned.
[907 e, f] 2.
if the real grievance of respondent no.1 is against the initiation of criminal proceeding and the orders passed and steps taken thereon, she must avail of the remedy under the general law including the criminal procedure code.
the high court cannot allow the constitutional jurisdiction to be used for deciding disputes, for which remedies under the general law, civil or criminal, are available.
it is not intended to replace the ordinary remedies by way of a suit or application available to a litigant.
the jurisdiction is special and extra ordinary and should not be exercised casually or lightly, [907 f h]