the appellant, a 1, his wife, a 2, and his brother 's wife, a 3, were prosecuted under sections 302/34 and 201/34 of the indian penal code.
ile entire case was based on the circumstantial evidence : (a) the deceased had illicit relations with a 2 and a 3; (b) the deceased was last seen on the night when he went to sleep in his house and thereafter his dead body was found buried in the house of a 1; (3) during interrogation a 1 made a disclosure statement and consequently lead the police party to his sitting room where he pointed out a spot covered by a cot and thereafter he dug the floor and, the dead body of the deceased was recovered from a five feet deep pit; and (4) recovery of doe (woodcutter) from his possession bearing the same human blood group as that of the deceased.
relying upon these circumstances the trial court convicted a 1 and a 2 on both the counts and sentenced them to imprisonment for life on the first count and for five years on the second count but acquitted a 3. 'me high court dismissed the appeal of a 1.
however, it acquitted a 2 on the ground that there was no evidence to connect her with the commission of the murder but maintained her conviction and sentence under sections 201/34 on the ground that she being the inmate of the house was in the know of the fact that the dead body was burried in the house with a view to causing the disappearance of evidence and she must have been necessarily involved in the process of digging a grave of five feet deep, the filling of the grave and erasing the traces etc.
both the accused filed appeals in this courts.
dismissing the appeal of a 1 and allowing the appeal of a 2, this court, 66 held: 1.
the chain of circumstances relied upon by the prosecution and accepted by the courts below leaves no manner of doubt that a 1 committed the murder.
accordingly his conviction and sentence is upheld.
[68b] 2.
there is not an iota of evidence on the record not even a whisper to the effect that it was a 2 who helped in concealing or causing the evidence of the commission of the offence to disappear.
simply because she is the wife of a 1 and as such is supposed to be living in the same house, it cannot be assumed that she was guilty of the offence under section 201/34.
a 1 may or may not have taken help of his wife in concealing the dead body.
her being wife of a 1 by itself is not sufficient to prove the charge under section 201/34.
she is accordingly acquitted of that charge.
[68h, 69a b]