the prosecution case was that there was long standing enmity between appellant 's father and one khan on one side and the complainant on the other, which rose out of rival claim in placing 'sawai ' on the akhara of tajias.
a civil litigation was pending between the parties over the dispute.
criminal proceedings under section 107 read with section 117 of the code of criminal procedure were also pending between them.
the nephew and son in law of the complainant was doing pairvi of the cases on behalf of the complainant and because of that the father of the appellant and one khan became inimical to the son in law of the complainant.
at about 6.00 p.m. on the date of the occurrence namely 25.12.1975, the son in law of the complainant was sitting on a wooden bench in front of a hair cutting shop of his village.
one umar and p.w.1 were also sitting with him and all the three were talking.
p.ws. 2 and 3 and the complainant were standing near a gumti, at a short distance and were talking.
at the time, the appellant armed with a double barrel gun came there.
he challenged the complainants son in law and threatened to kill anyone who would come forward.
he fired two shots which hit the complainant 's son in law add one umar.
both of them fell down.
complainant 's son in law 445 died on the spot.
p.w. 10 took umar to hospital.
the complainant went to his home and got a report of the occurrence written by p.w.4 and taking the report to the police station, about 4 miles away, he lodged the f.i.r at 7.15 p.m. investigation of the case was immediately commenced.
umar died on 4.1.1976, prior to his death on 1.1.1976, the police had interrogated the deceased.
the case of accused appellant was that he was falsely implicated on account of enmity and party faction.
he denied all the allegations of the prosecution.
the sessions court acquitted the accused appellant, as it did not rind the prosecution case and the evidence acceptable.
allowing the state 's appeal against acquittal, the high court convicted the appellant under section 302 i.p.c. and sentenced him to imprisonment for life.
in the appeal before this court, the accused contended that the high court did not appreciate the salutory principles governing the judgment of acquittal; that the sessions judge had taken pains in analysing in detail.
the evidences adduced in the case and gave reasonings for each of the finding as to why the prosecution case could not be accepted and what were the intrinsic deficiency in the evidences adduced in the case in support of the prosecution; that the law was well settled that in a case of acquittal, the appellate court should not interfere with the judgment of acquittal if such judgment was based on consideration of the evidences adduced in the case and there was no perversity in coming to the finding for passing the judgment of acquittal and in such a case of acquittal, the high court in exercise of its appellate power should not endeavour to appreciate the evidence on its own in order to come to different finding unlike in an appeal arising from the judgment of conviction: that it has been established convincingly that there was party faction between the two groups over a dispute to place sawai on tajias and both civil and criminal proceedings were instituted between the two groups: that the eye witnesses were in the faction of the complainant and they were partition witnesses; that the sessions judge, therefore, after nothing the various discrepancies in the prosecution case, was not inclined to place reliance on the evidences adduced by the alleged eye witnesses and acquitted the accused/appellant; 446 and that such order of acquittal, in the facts of the case and the reasons indicated by the sessions judge, was not required to be interfered with in appeal by the high court.
dismissing the appeal, this court, held: 1.
in an appeal arising from an order of acquittal, the appellate court is not precluded from appreciating the evidences on its own if the reasons given by the learned trial judge in passing the order of acquittal, do not stand scrutiny and are against the weight of the evidences adduced in the trial.
the appellate court, will be quite justified in setting aside the order of acquittal if it appears to the court of appeal that improper consideration of the materials and evidences on record was made and the reasonings of the trial judge are wholly unjustified.
it is only necessary that the court of appeal should weigh the reasonings of the learned trial judge with care and caution in the light of the evidences adduced in the case by giving cogent reasons as to why such findings are unreasonable and against the evidence.
[451b c] 2.01.
in the instant case, the high court has taken care in analysing each and every finding of the learned sessions judge in the light of the evidences adduced in the case and has given cogent reasons as to why such findings were unreasonable and not acceptable.
it is an admitted position that two persons suffered gun shot injuries and one of the enjured persons died on the spot and the other was removed to hospital.
he got serious injuries and later on sccummbed to such injuries.
the mere fact that there was enmity and bitterness between the two groups, by itself, does not establish that the eye witnesses falsely implicated the accused/appellant.
[451d e] 2.02.
there are no intrinsic discrepancies in the evidences of the eye witnesses.
even if it is assumed that such eye witnesses belong to the group of the complainant, their evidences are not liable to be discarded on that score if such evidences otherwise inspire confidence and get cor roborated by other evidences and from the nature of injuries, sustained by the deceased persons.
[452e] 2.03.
all the findings made by the sessions judge were considered in detail by the high court and the findings of the learned sessions judge were not accepted by the high court by indicating that such findings were 447 against the weight of the evidences and the same were wholly unreasonable.
in the circumstances, there is no reason to take a contrary view in this appeal.
[452h]