the second respondent (ferro alloys corporation), manufac turer exporter of ferro maganese and chrome concentrates, entered into a number of agreement .
with foreign buyers for sale of the said commodity.
the export was routed through the appellant to bring it within the system of private barter introduced by the government of india with a view to encourage exports.
the main objective of barter system was to provide a mechanism which would result in increased export of particular commodities which were ordinarily difficult to sell abroad where the selling countries were not able to get a foot hold.
this objective was sought to he achieved by linking them to exports of an equivalent or lesser value of essential commodities which in any event had to he imported.
as for as purchase and sale contracts were concerned, m.m.t.c. insisted that there should be one contract of sale between the local supplier and the m.m.t.c. and another contract of sale by the m.m.t.c. to the foreign buyer on principal to principal basis.
it was agreed that ferro alloys should intimate the foreign buyer to enter into a direct contract with m.m.t.c. treating it as the seller.
, also, the g.r.i. form prescribed by the reserve bank of india under the rules framed under fera was to be signed by m.m.t.c. showing it as the exporter and seller.
letters of credit was opened in the name of m.m.t.c. which was to be assigned to ferro alloys so that ferro alloys could receive the payment directly.
for the goods supplied to 13 m.m.t.c.
the shipping documents also showed m.m.t.c. as the exporter.
the transactions were gone through.
dispute arose between the parties when the question of issuance of tax credit certificate u/s 280zc of the income tax arose as to who could be said to have exported the goods and received the sale proceeds in the shape of foreign exchange.
the matter was taken in appeal before the government of india.
it held that m.m.t.c. was the exporter for the purpose of s.280zc.
ferro alloys challenged the said order before the high court by way of a writ petition.
the high court allowed the writ petition, and held that the real exporter was ferro alloys which earned and received the foreign exchange and m.m.t.c. got only its commission of 2% and nothing more.
aggrieved by the judgment of the high court, m.m.t.c. preferred the present appeal.
allowing the appeal.
this court, held: 1.
the entire export was done through m.m.t.c. in accordance with the system of barter.
there is no half way house; either it is not barter system or it is in accordance with the system of barter.
this is an undisputed fact as , are the several statutory documents made out in the name of m.m.t.c.
thus m.m.t.c. is the exporter for the purpose of section 280zc of the income tax act, 1961.
the entire system of barter and the several documents executed in that behalf including those required by statutory provisions cannot be explained away as mere "external appearances".
ferro alloys cannot come to m.m.t.c. when it is profitable to it and disavow it when it is not profitable to it.
it cannot have it, both ways.
the title to goods passed to m.m.t.c by virtue of the several documents executed between the parties.
indeed,that was the fulcrum of the entire scheme of barter.
(19 e f).
this court is not convinced with the alternative reasoning of the high court that even if it is viewed that the title to the goods passed to m.m.t.c., even so ferro alloys must be held to be the real exporter, in view of the objective underlying section 280zc.
if m.m.t.c. has acquired the title to the goods and is the exporter for all other purposes it is equally the exporter for the purpose of section 14 280zc.
there can be no dichotomy of the nature propounded by the high court.
(19 h, 20 a).