proceedings were commenced under chapter iii b of the rajasthan tenancy act 1955 for determining the ceiling area for raghubir singh, the father of the appellant.
in a revision application in the first round of litigation.
the board of revenue directed that the ceiling area for raghubir singh may be determined according to the old law, i.e. act of 1955, and not according to the rajasthan imposition of ceiling on agricultural holdings act, 1973.
thereafter, by his order dt.
5.5.76, the sdo held, inter alia, that tile father and the son, appellant, constituted two separate units and each of them was entitled to get 62 bighas and 8 biswas.
aggrieved by the sdo 's order, raghubir singh filed an appeal before revenue appellate authority, which was dismissed.
he then filed a revision application under s.230 of the act of 1955 before the board of revenue for rajasthan.
he urged that he was in possession of 112 bighas only and sought permission to adduce additional evidence, which was disallowed.
however, the member of the board held inter alia that the provisions of the old law applied to the case, but the sdo had committed an error of law in determining the ceiling area under the new act of 1973.
the board further held that there is no provision for separate units in chapter iii b of the act of 1955, and remanded the case to the sdo, hanumangarh, for fresh determination of the ceiling area for raghubir singh.
before the high court, it was urged that the state having not appealed against the order of the sdo dated 5.5.76, it became final, and the board of 723 revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the sdo 's order which had gone against the state and in his favour.
it was submitted that the power of general superintendence and control over all revenue courts which vested in the board could not be exercised to the detriment of the writ petitioners much less by way of suo motu exercise of powers.
the high court dismissed the petitions.
before this court it was submitted that the state not having filed an appeal, or a revision, the board of revenue could not, while hearing the revision petition of raghubir singh, set aside the orders of the sdo and revenue appellate authority under s.221 of the act of 1955.
dismissing the appeal, this court, held:. .(1) s.221 is not subject to the other provisions of the act.
it is clear from the language of section 221 of the act 1955 that the board of revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
it is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
it is open to the board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
if the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the board of revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
(727 e) karan singh vs board of revenue, rajasthan and permessar singh vs kailaspati air 1916 pat. 292 (fb), distinguished.
kana vs board of revenue ilr , approved.
(2) there is no restriction on the powers of the board to set aside the order of the sdo provided it comes to the conclusion that interest of justice requires exercise of such powers.
(728 d) (3) in not determining the ceiling area according to the act of 1955, the sdo committed a grave illegality in not merely ignoring the law but also ignoring the directions of the board of revenue itself.
(728 f) 724