the appellant was the occupier of a factory where there was a pit in which dangerous fumes were likely to be present.
the pit was securely covered and enclosed and no one was expected to go down into it for normal work as it was worked by gadgets fixed nearby above the ground.
something went wrong with the machinery inside the pit and five workers went down without wearing suitable breathing apparatus and without, wearing a belt securely attached to a rope the free end of which could be held by some person standing outside.
all the workers were overcome by poisonous gases and died.
it was found that suitable breathing apparatus, reviving apparatus, belts and ropes were not available anywhere in the factory and were not kept for ready use near the pit.
the appellant was prosecuted as the occupier for breach of the provisions of section 36(3) and (4) of the indian .
the trial court held that no offence under section 36(3) had been made out and it was not proved that any permission, express or implied, had been given to the workmen to enter the pit, and i that no offence under section 36(4) had been made out because no permission having been given it was 'not necessary to keep the breathing apparatus etc., near the pit or anywhere else in the factory and consequently it acquitted the appellant.
on appeal by the state, the high court set aside the (1) [1952] s.c.r. $67.
655 acquittal and directed the trial court to decide the case against the appellant in the light of the interpretation of the law made by the high court.
the high court was of the view that as c, the appellant had failed to prevent the entry of the workers he must in law be held to have permitted the entry and committed breach of section 36(3) ; and that it was not sufficient compliance with section 36(4) to provide breathing apparatus etc., only after coming to know that some person was about to enter the pit but that such apparatus must be immediately available at the pit at all times.
held, that section 36(3) did not cast an absolute duty on the occupier to prevent the entry into the pit and the mere fact that a person had entered the pit did not by itself prove that he had been "permitted to enter " within the meaning of that, subsection.
the primary duty was on the worker prohibiting him from entering the pit.
at the same time the occupier was also liable if his permission to the entry, whether express or implied, could be inferred from the facts and circumstances of the case.
held, further, that section 36(4) cast an absolute duty on the occupier to see that the breathing apparatus etc., was always available in the factory and was periodically examined and certified fit for use and a sufficient number of persons were trained in its use.
but there was no duty to keep the apparatus at the pit at all times; such a duty arose when some person was about to enter the pit with the permission of the occupier.