the principal question for determination in these appeals, arising out of writ petitions filed in the high court, related to the validity of an order passed by the board of revenue (andhra) terminating the appellant 's lease in respect of certain state quarries situated in the venkatagiri estate, which had been notified under section 3 of the madras estate (abolition and conversion into ryotwari) act, 1948 (mad. xxvi of i948), under the second proviso to section 20(1) of the act, on the finding that the said lease was granted subsequent to july i, 1945, and was for a period exceeding one year, without giving the appellant three months ' notice under the third proviso to that section or providing for compensation under sub section
(2) thereof.
the appellant had also claimed renewal of.
, the lease under r. 47 of the mineral concession rules, 1949, which was rejected by the board as well as by the high court.
the contention on behalf of the appellant, in substance, was that the words "such right" in the third proviso to section 20(1) referred to the right mentioned in the second proviso, namely, the right created on or after july 1, 1945, and thus made applicable to it the provision of sub section
(2)of the section, and before such right could be terminated the provisions of the third proviso relating to notice and sub section
(2) as to compensation had to be complied with.
held, that the contention raised on behalf of the appellant was without substance and must be negatived.
the scheme of the act was to render all rights created after july 1, 1945, and for a period exceeding one year, ineffective and section 20, properly construed, made it amply clear that its second proviso was a self contained provision that rendered such rights void against the government and, even if they were voidable and not void, the aid of the third proviso was wholly uncalled for.
the third proviso must be held to refer solely to termination of rights created before july i, 1945.
a. m. section section v. m. & co. vs the state of madras, i.l.r. , referred to.
553 the rule framed by the madras governor in exercise of the powers conferred on him by section 67(6) and (2) of the act could not attract the operation of the third proviso nor could it change the true meaning of section 20 of the act.
held, further, that r. 47 of the mineral concession rules, 1949, which could at best insert a few terms in the lease, could not apply to a case, such as the present one, where the lease itself stood determined under the second proviso of section 20 of the act and its terms fell with it.