one s was employed by the appellant as a secretary and one of the terms of employment was that the appointment may be terminated on one month 's notice on either side.
the appel lant was thoroughly dissatisfied with the work of s and dis approved of her conduct in joining the union.
purporting to act under the contract, the appellant terminated the services of s and gave her one month 's pay in lieu of notice.
no enquiry was held by the appellant before terminating the services of section the industrial tribunal held that the termination of services amounted to a dismissal for misconduct and since no enquiry was held it was illegal and unjustified and it passed an order for the reinstatement of section the appellant contended that as the termination was strictly in accordance with the terms of the contract it could not be challenged before an industrial tribunal, that even if no enquiry was held the order of discharge was justified as the evidence led before the tribunal established the misconduct of s and that at the highest it was a case for awarding compensation and not for reinstatement: held, that the discharge amounted to punishment for alleged misconduct and was unjustified in the absence of a proper enquiry.
even where the discharge was in exercise of the power under the contract it was competent for the tribunal to enquire whether the discharge had been effected in the bona fide exercise of that power.
if the tribunal found that the purported exercise of the power was in fact the result of the misconduct alleged then it would be justified in dealing with the dispute on the basis that the order of discharge was in effect an order of dismissal.
western india automobile association vs industrial tribunal, bombay, , followed.
458 held, further, that in the circumstances of the present case compensation and not reinstatement was the appropriate relief that should have been awarded.
the normal rule was that in cases of wrongful dismissal the dismissed employee was entitled to reinstatement but there could be cases where it would not be expedient to follow the normal rule.
in the present case the appellant 's office was a small one and s occupied a position of some confidence.
the appellant was dissatisfied with the work of s and had lost confidence in her.
in such a case it would not be fair either to the employer or the employee to direct reinstatement.